hi everyone and welcome to new every day
my name is Kari and my name is Jen and
on today's show we're in part two of
finishing well and we're looking at
roblox what is it that might potentially
hinder us and finishing well and so with
that this is new every day with Jen
waggers and Kerry web
[Music]
hi and welcome back to new every day
we're so glad that you joined us we are
in the series of finishing well and we
mentioned on last week's show that we
are in the process of finishing well our
time with new every day and so we
thought it would be so great to actually
look at how we finished well so that you
know we're speaking to ourselves we
wanted to also speak to others because
this has been such a wonderful journey
for us there's been great ups and great
downs and often we've I think we've
shared on the show that we have to often
struggle ourselves before we actually
sit down to record the show because the
enemy would not have us share the good
news of the gospel that Jesus has a plan
and purpose for every single person's
life and so and like that she wants to
put roadblocks and barriers in people's
life so that they do not finish well
they don't run the race with confidence
that God has set out before them and so
like to acknowledge that we do wrestle
with an enemy who doesn't want us to run
well and so he actually sets up
roadblocks and so last week we talked
about okay what are those those pearls
that will keep us going over its to
reach the end and reach it well and we
said it was daily time with the Lord we
said it was appropriating the gospel for
ourselves every day it was a daily
sacrifice number three and then the
fourth one was recognizing God's
sovereignty and grace in our lives
yeah and you said at the end of last
week's show that you there was someone
in your life that actually finished well
and you wanted to share that story with
us yeah for sure I mean I can think of
so many people and I mean we look at
even the life of someone like Billy
Graham who just passed away this
yes as well he's in the whole life
survey and continually sharing
yes and I think yeah part of finishing
well is that we look at the their
faithfulness and sharing the message
consistently about who God is and who
and representing him well
and then also looking to see that their
lives their life actually matches up
with what they're saying yes
and so that when you are represented in
your website well and I think of the
word represent it's free presenting his
that yes and representing Jesus to other
people and I've often mentioned my
mentor Hannah more on the show
and when I was in high school I was
paired with her whether she liked it or
not
that I would meet with her regularly and
she
would be like the older adults speaking
into my life and she at time when I
started meeting with her she was in her
Turner in her 80 mhmmm so we're set for
about ten years
pretty consistently
and
I could see those four essentials to
finishing well in pearlite and and
looking back now I can recognize them
clearly
she spent daily time inside her Bible
would always be out beside her bed and
when her in her last days when she was
in the nursing home she would talk about
how the pious stuff we use the personal
support workers would come into her room
because they would
a piece here I really just enjoy it
because she was bluffin in there
she would speak kindness to them and
encouraged them a lot like how Paul
would write to Timothy
encouraging him and loving him and they
would see her Bible there they would see
us thinking that anytime it was God and
how that then translated to an abundance
of love for other people so it was the
boat and write the spiritual discipline
of spending time with God so that she
could represent him effectively in the
beer
and then she also appropriated the
gospel so she would share the gospel
with me in such a way that she would
talk about the things that she did in
her life and some of the places where
she messed up but how God redeemed her
oh yes
cuz she moved forward hmm and she's like
did you have it right all the time and
yet
God started amazing
because he said he was renewing her day
by day he was moving her to look like
more like him so
uh and then she also understood the love
and sovereignty of God right but she
also understood what physical suffering
was about and Paul would say talk about
his chains right and don't be ashamed of
movies of who the prisoner of the war
don't be ashamed and suffering but I'm
doing what is right and here I often
encountered physical suffering to the
good chronic pain
I could see her having to overcome this
all barriers
without component
but just but you could see her
struggling and she would struggle to
even hope of him sometimes because of
our
but she would every day write a letter
of encouragement to
yeah it was amazing some and by the end
of her life you could barely read it
and then she couldn't write them anymore
but
she would verbally tell people
and so she
so well and no Jenny talked about how
the enemy can set up roadblocks in our
life
and pitfalls
to make us stumble
and I think that's because when we look
at someone's life who is running well it
inspires put boundaries so I look at
someone like Anna Billy Graham or when I
see
I am inspired hmm and then it causes
many to work to represent
in fact when we talk about the life of
Billy Graham I read a biography about
him just different people's
memories of Billy Graham over and over
and over again he would say I wish I
just prayed you know I would pray I
would pray more because what prayer does
is it's like the daily surrender like
that was number three right it's that
daily surrender of God I can't do it and
then you talk about that first beatitude
that says blessed is the poor in spirit
that means they recognize their own me
that they are they they cannot do it on
their own spirit so when they recognize
right blessed are the poor in spirit for
they will inherit the kingdom of God and
it's just like everything is laid out to
to those who recognize their need for
that hmm to say that I can't do it on my
own and that's why sacrifice is so
important it's that I deny yourself pick
up your cross and follow him is a real
life a realization that we need Christ
yeah every single day because we cannot
do it on our own and so when we talk
about roadblocks
one of the first roadblocks to finishing
well is realizing or convincing
ourselves that we've got what it takes
which would be considered right
who five-letter bad word pride PRI de in
english and so we're gonna pause right
there and i want you to ask yourself the
question do i have any areas of pride in
my life that are holding me back from
surrendering to jesus christ what he
would have that's preventing me from
doing that so we will be right back
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts hi everyone thank
you for staying with us on new every day
thank you also to our partners who have
faithfully stayed with us only these
three seasons and once a couple more
shows to make this show a possibility so
we really appreciate that go to our
website new every day TV and through our
participation see who have been those
faithful partners
and thank you for all of you who have
been watching faithfully and maybe
you've been catching us on YouTube or
the website for
on Facebook yes and we're just a little
and so the question that I ended up with
areas of cry and I know often that's
where the Lord sort of grabs me and says
Chen you're trying to do this on your
own or you're you're puffing yourself up
and one of the stories in the Old
Testament is of King Hezekiah who's it
said he served the Lord all of his life
and then in the end of his life when the
Babylonians came it says and he showed
them the splendor of his kingdom but he
didn't do it with a Wow look what God
has done he did it with a prideful heart
and so when the prophet Isaiah came to
him and said who are those people and he
said oh there are these people from
Babylon and what did you show them I
showed them everything and you might be
thinking well aren't you reading too
much in it but obviously and this is
where it's so important pride is so ugly
but God looks in our hearts and in that
moment God called Hezekiah spry he was
like you're showing them the kingdom but
your thinking is it's your
you did this you're forgetting who it is
that you're serving so pride Wells up
and as a result Isiah pronounced as a
prophecy over Hezekiah that says
basically your generations will be drawn
away into captivity because of the
Babylonians and so pride went and tore
down Hezekiah and Hezekiah actually said
well that's good it's not gonna happen
during my life
like that's cried right because part of
finishing well is passing on the torch
to other people yeah yeah I need like to
pattern on well for yourself
like god is not a fan of cried like two
other quick stories would be king
nabuchadnezzar
okay where he was he walked out on his
on his patio and he's like look at all
what I have done and in that moment a
voice came and and rebuked him and he
became like an animal he lost his mind
and he was like that until he declared
that God was God yeah and then in the
New Testament with King Herod King Herod
did the same thing he said look at me
and me and people praised him as if he
was a God and he didn't prevent them and
go ahead struck him with worms and was
eaten like I don't know what that looks
like but all I'm reminded of is like wow
I don't want that to happen to me and
not that well no God probably we don't
know how God still brings judgment on
things like that today but pride is
awful because it gets our eyes off of
God in Jesus and onto ourselves and
everything so that is a roadblock to
finishing well is that when you look
back over your time I'd say wow look
what I've accomplished rather than wow
look at what God has done
yeah look at the blessing so that's
number one roadblock is is pride a
second roadblock is money and success
okay that mean the the misuse of money
or this drive for success so someone
like King Solomon he made all sorts of
connections
so that he would puff up his reign so we
are told very clearly that the Kings
were not supposed to amass horses and
build stalls for them but we are told
that King Solomon would actually have
towns filled with horses and chariots
and because what would happen then is
that you would begin to rely on your
wealth right to look after you rather
than God's provision and so like and you
know what happened to King Solomon it
was his wealth right and his desire for
power that cause me make all sorts of
connections with women which is also
another downfall like sexuality and an
inappropriate focus on on earth are sexy
sexuality can actually be a roadblock to
finishing well and so King Solomon had a
lot of wise and a lot of concubines and
so it says at the end of his life he was
actually turned away who's serving god
he would actually bow down and worship
foreign idols because he had he get from
there to there because in the beginning
he actually his first wife he married
the daughter of of a foreign King
for the prefer the or making a treaty
almost between the two nations right
rather than trusting God to establish
and that's why you know sometimes I get
carry has heard me talk about this so
many times this slippery slope this is
look Reese look I don't want to make
this decision because I can see where it
goes where that first decision might not
be bad like it might not be bad to go to
a movie or might not be bad to go and go
out dancing once or twice but it's like
what is that a lot but I choose I'm very
cautious with the movies that I watched
and I don't go out to bars or go out to
establishments that would promote
drinking and dancing because I know on
my own self what I could be led into so
I have to draw the line actually pretty
close because I know where it can lead
and it you know going out and and living
you know having a drink or going and
going dancing in itself there's nothing
wrong with drinking there's nothing
wrong with dancing but I know in myself
what it could lead to so I have to draw
the line because I know where you to in
my own life because of what my own
family has experienced and I think like
like for you Jen that's also the grace
of God to that he's a lot of good to see
that and that you can say
I don't want to do that because I love
God it's the love of God that compels me
to do that too many snow Lotus yes I
love them more than pleasure yes I love
him more than face I love them more
and like whisper Kim is actually
fulfilling it's not it's not restraining
full of joy and I think that you know
for the times in my life work I haven't
had that same kind of insight that God
has shown me his grades were after I
have stumbled then he's allowed me to
and provide and there
you know hopefully he helps me next time
to say
do that was a bad idea you know it's the
grace of God that's working
again in both of our lives yes
he's so and that goes back to one of the
pearls right like trusting God's
sovereignty its grace like - and that's
appropriating the gospel like yeah I
fell for the gospel is I have been
forgiven and you know that is so true
Jen and I just really love in input via
3:14 Paul says I press on towards the
goal of the prize of the upward call of
God in Christ Jesus and I'm like okay
this would call of God like what does
that mean
and in Philippians chapter 2 it talks
about the humbled and exalted price like
let this mind be in you which was also
in Christ it goes on to talk about how
Jesus knew he was God and yet humbled
himself and yet died on the cross it
said
it's insight for the for the joy set
before him
he injured the cross who is the joy set
before him heaven
first yeah it was the joy of the gospel
and then now us being able to
have the image of God restored in our
lights and be with him forever and I
think like that's the upward call of God
that day leaving
the innocent price yes no it was the joy
that she's had you know yes
that affects the collar that we can do
yeah better either so I have the NIV
that says I press on towards the goal to
win the prize for which God has called
me heavenward in Christ Jesus and that's
so like I am going to get to spend
eternity with God because of what Christ
has done in Christ Jesus he's called me
heavenward in Christ Jesus so it has
nothing to do with what I have done but
everything to do with what price is done
in me and so part of finishing well is
always acknowledging it is Christ it is
through Christ that I am able to
to live a life worthy of the gospel
which is what Paul has said it is
because of what Christ has done in my
life as nothing it has nothing to do
with the money or my social connections
it has everything to do with what Christ
has done and so as we finish up the show
we still have a few more roadblocks that
we want to talk about so this week we
want you to think about
are you experiencing a few roadblocks in
your life like are you are you failing
and failing is such a strong word but
when you don't do something then you
failed to do it so are you failing to
spend time in the word are there areas
of pride in the problem with pride is is
often like you don't see it so maybe you
need to ask God to root out or show you
where you might be experiencing pride or
or money or your own sexual desires to
get in the way of what God is calling
you to and as a result maybe you've
gotten off that path and you're on a
road to not in a shame Wow so we want
you to think about things and yeah that
ends a little heavy but this is the
grace of God that we are appropriating
well if that muscle is a pearl in
understand yeah the poverty in love of
God so yeah if he is showing me
something like he has done
well
I don't want to be part of that I'm
headed down the wrong way that's happen
another great
we celebrate that so and I also want to
leave you with this earth boom
Philippians 1 verse 6 being confident of
this very thing that he who has begun a
good work in you will complete it until
the day of Christ even so we look
forward to seeing you next week on you
every day we're going to complete this
talk of this year yes have a good one
catch a new episode of new every day
every Friday morning at new every day
dot TV
we're also on Kody Roku flex YouTube and
Facebook or if you're in Southern
California tune in every Sunday morning
at 6:30 Pacific on channel 33 television
for the high desert
