welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number of 399 399 399 this is
the final of 300 series this is it crazy
it's Tuesday may the 12th 2015 tonight
we are going to learn how to create the
graphics that are necessary in order to
order online a custom staff using our
own handwriting I would like to say this
was a actual request of mine so this is
she's controlling the show folks yeah
look how do we do this let's talk about
it speaking of the show here's what's
coming up in the category 5 TV news room
for of the nearly 50 self-driving cars
on the road have been in accidents we an
innovative smart facial recognition cane
for the visually impaired gives the
visually impaired people the ability to
identify their families and friends
instantly verizon is buying AOL for
nearly four and a half billion dollars
users of Matt maker have been
vandalizing Google Maps forcing them to
shut down the service and Daimler has
launched a fully autonomous transport
truck stick around the full details are
coming up later in the show this is
category 5 technology TV starring Sasha
dramatis
Hillary rumble
krista wells
your kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
welcome to the show it's tuesday the the
twelfth of May and it's episode 3 99
it's really hard to believe we're a week
away from Episode four hundred we're
gonna tell you what's going on a little
bit later in the show I think I'd like
to know exactly how many episodes i've
been on like I should go count back you
find out what mine is sure well let's
use the magic of television ok and go
over to category five dot TV ok and here
we're gonna go about our team and we're
gonna go down here and we're gonna go
Sasha der made us write read sashes bio
Oh probably no it's probably really old
and and now these are the number of
episodes that you have hosted on the
co-host desk not the number of episodes
that you are actually participating in
because of the fact that you're on a
different desk right so that's all what
I'm interested in it sure oh wow you
know what well you know what we'll do I
will take it as a challenge in
programmatically i will add all of the
episodes that you have been on the news
desk to the counter there yes i require
my account to be accurate try bio is no
longer accurate well right now I've been
on 399 episodes Oh let the record show
is your shower though that's hard to
believe Aang I've been on every newsroom
show yes episode in season eight hateful
oh the other news room itself oh yeah
yeah I see not just the not my show
right yeah my show the news you're so
confusing also as you want and only try
it by an episode perfect more coming
soon we're coming we were talking about
this before the show content is coming
and you're working on it's really
finding the products and then investing
in the products to review them exactly
and and finding products that you the
viewers are going to be interested in
because
that's that's important because it's all
about finding a product that you're
going to want to jump on the Amazon and
purchase because that's how we afford to
to be able to create the show exactly so
so I think I have one in the works mmm I
should interrupt though and tell you
category five God TV is a member of the
tech podcast network if it's tech is
here cat five dot TV / tpn and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat5 TV / IA I be that was
smooth not bad eh I like you should have
had your own like jingle music
underneath and I almost have that
memorized wait wait this air jingle
music nope that was the applause oh I
can't hear it I would like to thank
everyone who's contributed to the show
this week we have had some donations
come in monetary donations to help us
with our expenses if you go to donate
dot category 5 TV you'll see that we do
have some pretty pressing needs right
now one of the things that we're
encountering as we grow because we're no
longer just category 5 technology TV we
now have several shows and you'll notice
notice that if you've got our roku
channel installed on your Roku device
that we're expanding into multiple shows
and of course we've got multiple YouTube
channels and you can follow through and
figure out you know the the connection
between them all but as we produce more
and more shows it means a lot more hard
drive space is being used right so where
category 5 technology TV uses about 40
gigs a week and then we compress and
then we can remove some of the temporary
files and things to free up some space
as we as we continue to grow other shows
are taking up space too and we're eating
through servers storage space on our
storage servers much faster than we ever
have before in fact last week's category
5 technology TV pushed us over the
threshold and so I actually had to start
nitpicking and removing things from the
server which I'm like Gary it's
dangerous because as soon as you start
deleting things what if you accidentally
delete the wrong thing and I'm very very
careful but we are at that point now
where we're
having to remove bangings in order to
have space for the show going forward
that reminds me there's also emergency
things that we end up needing like the
printer has yes rightfully Fitbit yeah I
gave up the ghost ah and we've been
doing everything that we can I put new
ink cartridges in today and thing yeah
we've been squinting the past couple
last couple of weeks yeah it has looked
like you know that when you go to the
what do they call with the optometrist
yes can you can you read any of that
right that's with new ink cartridges I
think our heads are dead and so i can
replace the heads that's pricey this is
with a new ink cartridge that's our
alignment page that's not looking too
good so needless to say we're not
working with printouts today and and
that is you know like you say one of
those unexpected expenses right so it's
little things that you can do so shop on
the affiliate links and if you can just
donate right yeah donations monetary
donations help a lot and and of course
shopping with Amazon helps because that
turns into it translates into a monetary
contribution because they send us a
percentage of your purchase so anything
that helps monetarily is is really
really helpful right now you know that
in the past couple of weeks we'd have
problems with the amount of sunlight
that comes in on our studio wall here
we've got a big window there that has
never been a problem before but because
staying brighter later now all of a
sudden it's a problem so we've got to
get drapes on those and in all these
little things and then there's all the
stuff that we want to be able to do for
example new every day is a great new
show on category 5 TV network and we're
using the old handheld consumer camera
that category 5 technology TV used to
use so the quality is very very low as
far as the the resolution or the just
the general quality of the the video
recording we'd like to be able to
upgrade them and my idea is we've been
working toward getting a 4k camera in
studio D and if we could do that then
maybe we can take this camera and move
it down the line get a better camera on
the newsroom sad right
move our other camera down the line to
new every day and do that kind of thing
so that we're not having to buy three
new cameras but by buying one camera we
can now take this camera and move it to
the ginger candy damn right yeah exactly
so everybody ends up with a better
camera the newsroom is gonna look better
than ever in that case because we'll be
able to have a nice DSLR right I need to
know before that happened so I can make
sure I always have my hair makeup done
right now I'm just a little bit blurred
in the newsroom which is perfect for me
excuse to Ghazi and Blair yeah you think
I've got perfect complexion but oh
really yeah wait till you see you'll be
like wow she really does look her age
yeah so yeah anything I mean if you're
if you're talking to friends and they're
buying things on amazon just say hey
there's a great idea you knows this
length use the link it's pretty cool
that you can do that but we do have a
growing number of expenses here and
those are just you know to give you some
examples of some of the needs that we
have and we've got some little things
that we need to do here at the studio
and then of course it's coming up on
July's where our rent is going to be
going up and there's all these these
things we've got to pay for our
insurance again we pay it on an annual
basis right so all these things kind of
build up and so right now you hear us
talking about donating a little bit more
than usual and that's because the
expenses are on the increase so so we do
appreciate you helping us out if you're
able and any amount is a great help head
on over to donate dot category five dot
TV you'll see a little list of some of
the needs that we have there and you'll
be able to designate you can actually
specifically say I'd like this
contribution to go toward and you can
select from the drop-down list as to
what you'd like it to do so we
appreciate select printer please I
haven't had a printer yet but you can
put it under general yeah that's
important too this is a new need that
just came up today yeah so yeah any
donation is definitely welcome very much
see all right on with the show tonight
we're going to learn to create a cool
little stamp object and we're going to
be doing it with staples business Depot
because they've got the online service
to do it you could use any service but
really what we're doing tonight is
learning the the methods that are needed
in order to create the image so
you can do things with your signature or
with handwritten notes in this instance
we're doing something kind of unique and
sasha is going to tell us a little bit
about that but we're creating a stamp
right but we could also use this for say
digitally adding your signature to a
document around being able to add it to
two things that you print out and so you
know keep that in the back of your mind
as well you may not want to make a stamp
but you may be able to use this for
something else as well so what are we
doing here today ok so here's the
problem that I run into a lot at work I
like to write a little you know
personalized thank you on the back of
receipts when I give them to table signs
here right but sometimes I'll have you
know pop in groups of 20 or 22 people in
their small separate checks I mean if
everybody asks for their check at the
same time I have 25 different pieces of
paper I can't write thank you on the
back of each one and then I feel like
people don't understand that I really do
care so i was thinking what if i had a
stamp and i could write it like I could
just stamp it so I had the idea and then
everybody at work was saying that it was
totally lazy of me ha I think that was
my first comment I think it's actually
the name of the show tonight how to
create stamps so that you can sign
things the lazy way it's not lazy it's
proactive so I was messing around on the
staples website and it was all just text
and I was like oh this does look tacky
right but then I saw that there was an
attached image option right oh yeah if i
turn my signature like my actual
handwritten spike like thank you smiley
face a into a stamp image right and
then stamp it nobody will know what I'm
doing things the lazy way it's not lazy
that's caring don't worry if you order
any signed merchandise from the category
5 shop we will make sure she does not
use her stamp you know what if you would
like I will stay up something for you
and send it to you for a small donation
at 50,000 oh my goodness I think in the
stand yeah well what else could you use
this idea for Jimmy you could use it for
lots of paperwork things yeah you know
like if you're putting out a lot of even
Shaq sir you know what if you're doing
thank you cards your invitation to your
upcoming wedding anything you could get
your you know handwritten return address
instead of a stamp hey that's neat idea
and and yeah when we do mail outs for
category 5 i've never thought of this
but we usually have a stack of envelopes
and i have to hand write our postal box
on the return address yeah I could use
labels but I've never I prefer to do the
hand because it's nice it's sweet to do
a handwritten damn it feels good yeah
cool now you know there's good idea you
could also get one made with your
handwritten signature and send us that
along with your blank checkbook and that
would help with the show you know and
that would be great Ravi's the king of
comedy but um bom bom okay so if you'd
like to find out what how we're doing
this is cat five dot TV / stamp nice and
simple but it starts really with a blank
piece of paper yes because what we're
going to be doing is we're going to be
transferring an image and what they're
thinking when they do this is you're
going to maybe have a nice font or
something like that but why not actually
hand draw this or handwrite it right
have a little smiley face and do that
kind of idea there's nothing to stop you
from doing that so the things to keep in
mind i mean when they're creating
something like this they ask for a black
and white image do you know why that is
um because it's easier because they have
to have two very opposite ends of the
spectrum to know this is the extrude and
this is not extruded so that they so
black on white is a really good way to
do it because the black is going to very
vividly tell their automated system that
is what the stamp is supposed to be
extruded and then from there you can
vary and do like red or purple or blue
ones are out load yes you can change the
color of it once you've uploaded so
using paper such as you know this kind
of stuff would not be a good idea
because it's got lines on it it's a
little bit colored we want to use really
good-quality white paper so the first
thing that I asked you was how big are
the receipts right so you brought in a
receipt just so that we
could get a bit of a measurement so okay
because we want to make sure that the
stamp that you're going to get created
is going to be able to stamp these
receipts yeah and not go over or be itty
bitty that would make any sense can't
look tacky you can't look overly fake
either yeah it has to look legit yeah
okay so I brought a measuring tape and
we've got three inches is the width of
this so that's cool all right so what
we're going to do is go over to cat five
dot TV / staples just like it sound cat
five dot TV / staples and that's going
to take you right over to their system
which is or is it gonna go cat five dot
TV / staples well let's try a different
browser okay i got a dns issue what's
DNS means domain name service okay
sometimes your computer will cash what
did I what did I type in i do-- i was
looking at the camera curious i think i
0 i typed in staples that's why no it's
cat5 don TV / stamp did I say staples
this whole time I don't know thinking
staples because we're talking tables cat
five dot TV / stamp there you go not
staples just happens to be staples okay
so we've got a custom pro stamp this is
the one that we're going for right so
this is right here yeah alright so I'm
going to click on shop now 2745 is the
starting price and how it basically
works is it's going to be more expensive
the larger it is and you'll see that it
it's self inking it's going to create a
stamp that is going to automatically
flip over and ink itself that's cool
right so you don't have to go pump not
be obvious i'm trying to do this
discreetly is that noise yes very
consistent penmanship yes on that table
of 22 people they're all going to look
at the back of their receipt at the same
time ago what huh and what I want to
know where you're gonna use this for the
table of two as well aren't you
I'm just gonna love this I'm gonna love
it all right so what we're going to what
we're going to do with our pre inked pro
stamp is go choose by size because we
know the size of our receipt so the
width is what we're looking at because
height is not all that important we've
got the height of a receipt it doesn't
really matter the width is going to be
all right what do we got one and
three-eighths inches right that's too
small yes one and fifteen sixteen inches
wide tonight very specific why didn't
they just make it two inches 15
sixteenth of an inch oh that's tiny like
the at the leftover part the partners
out there is really accurate with this
website here all right what do we got
two and three quarters that's awfully
close that's pretty good and then this
one's three and a half so that's too big
which is good because it's so too
expensive two and three quarters at 50
385 okay all right so that's I think
with a 3 inch wide receipt and this is
the width of your receipts right we
hazard it's three inches so two and
three quarters if we pull out two and
three quarters on our measuring tape
that's going to be right about there so
it's going to have a quarter inch on
either side basically a little bit less
than that fantabulous it's that perfect
that's perfect all right so that's what
we're going to go with I'm going to show
you a little trick here because we want
we want to make sure that our images are
going to work within their template
right so we're going to use free
software I'm on Linux you can do this on
windows mac whatever we're going to use
the GNU image manipulation program to do
this but it's going to start with
actually signing this as if it was the
back of your receipt so I'm imagining
that this is that there's a receipt on
that page let's get you a black pen but
we might have to do this a couple of
times over because let me tell you I
don't have the best writing people today
today in fact I was talking to some
table today because they were trying to
figure out what my name was cuz i wrote
Thank You Sasha nick is your name Suzy
spelt su ass and then you're like you
wait wait and see it pretty soon I will
be much more consistent with my
signatures exactly all right so this is
what she writes on the back of your
receipt folks
the waitress as well as a television
superstar international I should
probably close that a so it looks like a
name not a you does that okay are you
happy with that are you guys how about
you folks at home we just evolved on
this please so that would be on the back
of your receipt you'll be happier that
right I think that looks pretty good
okay I think so alright you perfect yeah
I think so um the the when I look at
this from a graphic standpoint now the
the stamp itself is going to be quite a
bit wide it's going to be on the wide
spectrum it's wider than it is tall
alright so if we're to use this way the
way I would see that is we're going to
have a fair bit of white space on the
left and right so it's going to kind of
end up like this so you're going to end
up with that kind of centered with white
space on the left and right okay so if
that's cool that's cool okay that cool I
think it's cool all right what I'll
probably do is I will never like square
released amp either I okay a bit just to
make it get a second stamp that has like
different emoticons that you can stamp
all right well let's give it a go ok
then next the if you're happy with that
because this is a pretty permanent
decision once we upload this to staples
I'm happy with it you can scrub up my
name is Sasha on that natsu she hears
nothing well we're going to pull out an
old piece of technology here kids this
is called a scanner and it's basically
like a digital camera that you set
things on kind of like that so on linux
I've got a program called simple scan
and we're going to use that to scan in
this image I've got a nice can of scan
li de thirty-five something like that
and they're very high resolution I'm
going to scan in a 1200 DPI so simple
scan and let's make sure we're scanning
as a photo and let's give it a go so
that's going to pull in
copy now you could use a digital camera
for this but you're going to then be
dealing with light nice thing about a
scanner is I've put it in there it's
nice and flat and there's not going to
be any light changing causing any kind
of great gradients or anything across
the page that makes sense if you were to
take it with a camera and you've got a
light over there it's going to actually
kind of come down on the page at an
angle and you're going to have a little
bit darker here than it is here and then
you're gonna have to deal with that so
that it doesn't end up extruding that
right because then it would look tacky
it certainly would look different yeah
here it comes so it's scanning in and
they're rather slow when when you're
scanning in at a high resolution I
prefer to work in a very high resolution
Sasha so that we can make sure that this
is going to to work very very well for
you you have no clue how much this
episode is making my heart saying i love
category five and i'm here every week
and understand sometimes nothing not
nothing I understand I'm learning I'm
learning things but sometimes it's deep
and this I get so for those of you who
don't like deep is the episode for you
this is just a chicaza picture in a
chief of staff that's the new name for
the episode oh that's great okay here it
comes almost there looks good you can
tell how grateful I am you visited right
there in that in that in the stamp yeah
it's great okay it's coming through and
I think we've got enough of it now that
i can stop the scanner and set to crop
okay and here we go gonna grab that
image just like them hmm and then we're
gonna save that all right Sasha one dot
let's do pin dot PNG and why are we
gonna do that because ping is a lossless
format it is not going to add any kind
of anomalies like a JPEG will jpg will
cause a little bit of a pixelation on
some of the finer lines oh my okay cuz I
saw that in order to attach an image it
had to be in
ping which I didn't even know what this
okay PNG yeah p.m. helping they probably
want you to use that because it's they
know what's going to give you a better
result as you aim the especially lines
like a signature are going to come out a
lot clearer with a ping file than they
would with a JPEG so why do people ever
use jpg JPEG is compressed so it's a
much smaller file size all right so
comparatively now that picture that scan
just to give you an idea is 15.5
megabytes that's pretty huge on the
other hand if I save that exact same
image as a JPEG right right and because
it's compressed export that you'll
notice now the jpg is only for 2.4 mega
way we handle it's a huge to pay so jpg
is used for emailing photos cameras use
it to take photos that are not in raw
mode so that they can take quick photos
because they're very very small
compressed photos and they do owning up
the space on your card like a like a raw
file would okay in our case we want ping
because it's lossless higher quality but
it is a much larger file alright so my
signatures right now very big there you
go yes and it actually is you can see
the grain on the paper with a quality
scanner like this and that's what we
want to get out of the image so that
it's nice and clean for them to use so
what I'm going to do is just I'm going
to crop around this so that we get rid
of any of the outside lines and things
like that so we're just going to go
cropped selection and then we're going
to use the levels tool so we're going to
go colors levels and this is where we
can pull out some of those shadows see
those shadows at the right hand side
there hmm see that I can pull that out
we're going to get rid of some of that
paper grain see how that works so we go
from that which is the paper grain and
that's what this that big hump is there
it's actually just showing me visually
that that's the grain of the paper now I
can pull that out just like that and now
we have a nice white background I'm
going to bring that in there and then
I'm going to darken your text a little
bit so it's nice and solid okay so this
is the levels tool and it does take a
little bit of practice to get levels
right understanding that on the right
side of the spectrum is your shadow on
the left-hand side of the spectrum is
your light highlights and things like
that so then once I've adjusted and the
initial adjustment is done visually so
you see that hump on the right-hand side
I've moved this line here to be on the
opposite edge of the hump over here
there's another little hump so I've
placed that I'm similarly on that inside
and then this one here in the middle
actually adjusts within that space so I
can lighten it or darken it and I want
your text to be rather thick so you
notice as I make that darker your text
is being affected but what doesn't
happen is that that grain of the paper
does not come back because it's outside
of the threshold that we SAT through
those first two right okay that's
perfect so then I'll find that spot I
hope nobody's analyzing my handwriting
or writes back psychoanalyze exactly
setia slightly unstable her eyes are not
completely for its curve slightly to the
left exactly all right so there we go
now if we go in you can see that there
is still some fuzziness around the edges
but that's okay one of the things that I
want to do is get rid of some of the
little grain that we don't need to be
there like that thing in the middle
there we'll just kind of clean it up
with the eraser tool because you don't
want it to end up and they will probably
clean up the edges fairly well as well
but we've done a nice job see as you
look at it in the size that it's going
to be mm-hmm approximately it's going to
look pretty good okay next step ii and
and see that of course can be used for
anything if you want to add the
signature to a document as i said you
can do that kind of thing the next step
for us this evening is going to be
actually creating this in the dimensions
that they need for the stamp so we can
upload it to the system and actually
create this stamp and have it ordered
okay all right in the meantime it's time
for us heading on over to your newsroom
oh boy this hour is fine just like that
just like that
right this is category 5 technology TV
don't go away because we are going to be
showing you how to take our Sasha
signature now and actually place it on
to the stamp template so that so that
the system there will be able to create
an actual stamps that she just bang bang
bang bang and we're done and done no
having to sign 300 checks in a single
night all right off to the news room
here is Sasha dermot us it's Tuesday may
12 2015 and here are the stories were
covering this week even autonomous cars
can't avoid the inevitable as four of
the nearly 50 self-driving cars on the
road have had minor accidents all
apparently the fault of other drivers a
smart Kane has been developed by
students at birmingham city university
which recognizes family and friends and
alerts the visually impaired user paying
almost eight dollars more per share than
they're worth verizon intends to buy AOL
Google is suspending that map maker
after some of the users vandalized
google maps and Daimler has launched a
fully autonomous transport truck these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere if you need website hosting for
your website or blog make sure you check
out cat five dot TV / dreamhost for only
seventy dollars you'll get unlimited web
site hosting you'll get one free domain
name registration say your own com for
example also you'll get unlimited
bandwidth unlimited email accounts and a
free 50 gig backup account for your own
personal files as well there's a lot
more to the package head on over to cat
five dot TV / dreamhost the best deal
you're going to get only seventy dollars
make sure on checkout you use the coupon
code cat five TV and that's going to
make sure that you get that deal back to
the newsroom here's Sasha I'm Sasha
through madison here are the top stories
from the category 5 TV news room for of
the nearly 50 self-driving cars now
rolling around california have gotten
into accidents in September when the
state began issuing permits for
companies to test them on public roads
according to a person familiar with the
accident reports two of the accidents
happened while the cars were in control
the other to the person who still must
be behind the wheel was driving three
involved Lexus SUVs that Google Inc
outfitted with sensors and computing
power in its aggressive effort to
develop autonomous driving a goal the
tech giant shares with traditional
automakers the parts supplier Delphi
automotive had the other accident with
one of its two test vehicles both Google
and Delfy said their cars were not at
fault in any of the accidents which the
company said were minor since September
any accident must be reported to the
Department of Motor Vehicles that makes
sense the fact that neither of the
companies that the fact that neither
companies nor the state have revealed
the accidents trouble some who say the
public should have been should have
information to monitor the rollout of
technology that its own developers
acknowledges imperfect in the October
accident involving Delfy the front of
its 2014 Audie sq5 was moderately
damaged when as it was waiting to make a
left turn another car broadside of it
Google which has 23 Lexus SUVs would not
discuss its three dudes three accidents
in any detail as self-driving cars
proliferate other issues will arise that
human drivers have dealt with for
decades notably who's liable for an
accident each test car is required to
have five million dollar insurance well
I can say like probably these cars have
cameras all around them so it's probably
easier to tell who is in fact at fault
oh sure yeah the the logging system of
these systems must be astounding right
and it would have to be because
otherwise insurance wouldn't insure it
right got to be able to prove who was at
fault you know it the only way to make
sure that one hundred percent there was
never another collision on the road with
him would be to make all of the cars
autonomous isn't that an interesting
point to and people are upset that the
companies didn't reveal these accidents
and that it was found out by a
third-party investigation or whatever
but
realistically if it's not the fault of
those autonomous cars and autonomous
cars are in fact safer than as you say
there's their cameras all around it so
it can see more than i can when i'm
sitting in my car i can't see the guy
coming up to in my blind spot right but
right an autonomous car can exam such
thing as a blind spot anymore I just yes
scary and yet awesome and I would like
if all of the cars were autonomous
because i'm pretty sure that there would
never be another acting because they
communicate with each other I think you
just like the idea because of the whole
laziness thing I yeah we're learning a
lot about Sasha today because I could
just sit there and have a mojito well
there are drivers behind the wheels of
these cars and in fifty percent of the
four accidents that happened those
drivers were in control so but not at
fault also not at fault or maybe a who
knows maybe who knows with those I don't
know do you feel safe with autonomous
cars driving around on the roads an
for the visually impaired will probably
be available on the market in the near
future the cane gives visually impaired
people the ability to identify their
family and friends instantly the
Explorer mobility cane being developed
by birmingham city university students
uses smartphone technology to recognize
familiar faces from up to 10 meters away
which some days for me is hard the cane
also features gps functionality to aid
navigation the students have designed
the explorer cane to vibrate when it
detects a recognizable individual from a
bank of images stored on an internal SD
memory card the device will guide users
towards friends and family members using
an earpiece with audio guidance with the
information being relayed through
bluetooth technology the team has
already presented the explorer cane to
medical and science professionals in
luxembourg and france and plans to visit
organizations in germany later this year
I think that this is incredible I also
think it will be funny as there are
small little glitches yeah mom is not
you oh I'm just picturing and I I hate
myself for this but I'm picturing your
uncle across the road going don't cross
don't cross in the cane saying move
forward ten more feet and there's your
uncle no yeah well be too much oh
they're gonna have to perfect hearing
aid impaired so Oh hearing they're not
hearing impaired with another visual Oh
uncle should probably long as uncle is
yelling loud enough what would be fun
funny is if you say you had a relative
who was famous on a billboard somewhere
and you won't run billboards and they're
like it's your cousin to the immediate
left and you walk into a wall not funny
I could see the technology being useful
especially as you yeah I think it's neat
that you were talking about autonomous
cars and everything but that would be
interesting to see if a use case I'd
love to see a use case somebody who's
actually impacted like the keenest is
GPS it has gps enabled capabilities you
could really just the same as you have a
gps navigating your car it can really
help you yeah it would help me because I
get lost easily just can I throw us a
hypothetical at you yeah I'm trying to
think it and I'm thinking where's this
useful because I'm picturing what I'm
picturing downtown New York and a guy
walking around and oh there's your uncle
well what if it's instead family trip to
Disney World right yeah so you know you
can participate and you know where your
family is among the crowd and suddenly
it makes sense that you can be involved
in that without without you know having
to necessarily be handheld the whole
time mm-hmm I love this this is really
cool technology I mean I will laugh a
little bit at some of the small glitches
I'm sure that they'll figure them out
yes us telecommunications giant Verizon
has agreed to by AOL in a deal worth 4.4
billion dollars buying AOL will broaden
the amount of advertising verizon can
sell and will increase video production
AOL owns websites such as The Huffington
Post TechCrunch in gadget makers and AOL
com
verizon like UK peers BTW and vodafone
is trying to become more of a one stop
shop for internet services in
entertainment AOL famous for mailing
floppy and compact discs for its
services through thousands of mailbox in
the 90s mailboxes in the 90s has still
still has two million customers for its
dial-up internet service what two
million customers still use dial-up
who's still doing this I don't that's
unreal yeah it also becomes became
eminent it also became memorable for its
messaging service which would greet
users with an audio clip that would
cheerfully announced you've got mail
right AOL chief executive Tim Armstrong
will continue to lead the firm if the
deal goes through the transaction is
subject to regulatory approval really is
a great big move I think I honestly when
I heard this story I'm shocked that
they're like AOL is still I guess some
people still use it do you still use it
the dial-up service has two million
subscribers I was shocked when michael
robertson said on twitter today that
people are still using cable TV that's
cable TV you're still using dial-up two
million people two million people two
million people yeah I was just using
cable until they cut it i was using real
cable cable I told you very recently
dial-up I kind of got out of like two
ages ago like 10 years ago I wonder too
you mentioned a couple weeks ago about
how facebook is deprecating XMPP and
fortunately they haven't yet I mean at
least it hasn't been rolled out here in
Canada that change because I'm still
able to connect with pidgin AOL bought
icq way back in the day and icq services
or AOL Instant Messenger are still up
and running yeah and in fact i still
have my icq number 21 4846 32 from how
many years ago memorized when i was 12
13 years old and still have it that
service still exists so as XMPP is
deprecated on facebook
it's the chat ability to chat using
applications msn messenger is gone as
well because they bought it skype to try
to grow that which is now you know
conflicting with sky by the way can you
tell the difference in these two logos
but you know we'll maol instant
messenger suddenly become the de facto
I've still got my number message me
weird huh who knows who knows google
introduced map maker in 2008 as a tool
to allow users to edit the information
on their google map service similar to
the way wikipedia allows users to edit
its pages map maker allowed users to
draw features adding roads rivers green
spaces and local businesses but ah but
some edits such as an image of its
android mascot urinating on an apple
logo were not as welcome you know who
you are last month Google apologized for
the Android graffiti but since then
several other map maker hacks have been
spotted the map maker service relied on
a mixture of Google reviewers and
trusted users to moderate contributions
we trusted you Google now admits that
this approach has not been adequate
Google is suspending the service
temporarily in response to the vandalism
Google did admit that it will take some
time to fix hilarious firstly i will say
that a lot of the Wikipedia staff also
cannot be trusted there are any doctor
entire events on wikipedia that actually
never happened but how many times have
people died on Wikipedia only two I
don't know they haven't they have not no
I hear you there so the fact that they
were using something similar to
Wikipedia which is known for its I think
we're boils down to is that we live in a
connected society that wants to be able
to contribute to the news and tuning the
services that are available out there
look at Twitter and Facebook and it's
late does anyone the news comes out the
day after I've already read about it on
Twitter right that's crazy
the world that we live in so they want
to be able to if I own a business I want
to be able to add it to Google Maps
without trouble and then somebody takes
advantage of that creates wacky imagery
it is true now everything is instant so
yeah I I kind of think it's hilarious I
guarantee you that was distributed all
around Google headquarters before the
the apology was issued a week ago
tonight at a world record setting
ceremony at the Hoover Dam Daimler
Trucks North America unveiled the
freightliner inspiration track to a
group of international news media and
investment analysts the freightliner
inspiration track is the first licensed
autonomous commercial vehicle to operate
on an open public highway in the United
States the freightliner inspiration
truck underwent extensive testing before
the Nevada Department of Motor Vehicles
granted its license to operate on the
public load roads on this in the state
earlier on Tuesday Nevada governor
Bryant in sandal off formally granted
the license to operate the vehicle in
the state of fixing a license plate to
the track and taking part in the
ceremonial first drive of the truck in
autonomous mode the freightliner
inspiration track is equipped with the
highway pilot sensors and computer
hardware is based upon a series of
production freightliner cascadia upon a
series production freightliner cascadia
evolution fully certified to meet all US
federal motor vehicle safety standards
the highway pilot links together a
sophisticated set of camera technology
and radar systems with Lane stability
collision avoidance speed control
breaking steering and other monitoring
systems this combination creates a level
three autonomous vehicle operating
system that can perform safely under a
range of highway driving conditions I
don't know what level it goes up to but
level three sounds good the autonomous
vehicle system is responsible for
maintaining legal speed staying in the
selected lane keeping a safe braking
distance from other vehicles and slowing
or stopping the vehicle based on traffic
and road condition
the vehicle monitors changes in
conditions that require transition back
to the driver controls when necessary in
highway settings the driver is in
control of the vehicle for exiting the
highway on local roads and for docking
and undocking for making deliveries more
information is available at Freightliner
inspiration calm now four of the 50 cars
in the first story we're involved in
collisions that may or may not have been
it probably not them however in the same
news day Robbie we now have fri trains
freight trains freight trucks big heavy
John trains just driving along yeah yeah
yeah I don't know for one thing spice
Jax wants to say that you're you're the
way that you safe freight is wrong no
not wrong just with the Canadian ism Oh
freightliner sounds a lot like
freightliner that sound like it yeah and
and it's funny because it really that my
immediate thought is I saw a movie when
I was a kid that scared the bejeebers
out of me one of the I don't know what
it was or whatever but there was a truck
it was a ghost truck coming toward him
and he just couldn't get away and it was
like this that was a nightmare of a
scenario I don't know what it was but it
just reminded me of that and thinking
about a ghost truck or some transport
truck that is autonomous something is
also ominous about that but yet in
reality the technology is so incredible
what daimler and freightliner are doing
with this truck being able to for
example all the trucks in a fleet
communicating with one another and
lining themselves up in an aerodynamic
way so that they save six percent of
their fuel right is astounding so but as
you say because all the other cars on
the road are not autonomous now we've
got the problem of okay well what if
someone else makes a mistake mm-hmm I
think that every vehicle then should be
autonomous if they're going to start
doing this they might
well how do I would go all out because I
see on the highway here and I don't know
if it's like this all over the world
that I assume it is that people are rude
to the trucks so if the truck needs to
get into the middle lane because it's
going to go under a bridge that can only
get into the middle lane people won't
let the truck merge properly people cut
trucks off right so how would how are
the trucks going to respond to these
human arrogance is a big problem on the
road and they call it rather they call
it road rage right really it's arrogance
and self-centeredness is what it is and
and you're right if if you won't get out
of the way for a truck to pull in then
you know what's to stop an accident from
happening and and you know you see
trucks getting clipped by bridges and
overpasses and things but if everyone
was autonomous they would automatically
move and let and it would be this
constant flow it would be perfect that's
where we're headed we need to take
people out of traffic for I refer back
to my mojito comment for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias visit the
category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm Sasha dramatis Thank You Sasha
this is category 5 technology TV sasha
dreamweaver 909 saying that he would
actually really do well with that cane
the ability to be able to walk around
and recognize faces a little easier and
I think that's neat I am looking forward
to that happening there was another
story recently I like the cane story and
I like the pen story for people with
Parkinson's these ways to help ya make
life easier or more comfortable could
autonomous vehicles be the the next step
for visually impaired people as well or
elderly as well I think that that would
be a thing eventually one ninety-five
percent or more cars were autonomous
right thing because right now there
needs to be a fully licensed driver
behind the wheel in case the car needs
to kick back to the driver right yeah
like these freightliner trucks are not
allowed to drive through town without
consciously right would that be easier
or harder on the truck the driver right
to kind of check out imagine if you were
on a really long highway these are how
accidents happen in the trucking
industry what what's the number one
reason of accidents is from nodding off
yeah and and so if you could not off
because it's the it's the constant line
blinkin by at night time and it's and
you're just driving in a straight line
and who wouldn't fall asleep in that
scenario it's very peaceful so you turn
on the music you roll the window down
well what if you could actually jump up
in the bunk and this thing could drive
for eight hours right and then like a
beeping what happen if it needed you to
make you out the wheel yeah and if for
some reason you didn't respond it would
probably safely pull aside I like this a
lot of I think that they should probably
have an autonomous docking system though
because I know that there's cars that do
the parallel parking I'd like to see a
truck do a backup 40-foot container
docking I would like to put these things
to the test for sure I can see that how
much the cost I love it people in the
chat room mentioning the Johnny Capps
from fifth element that's what comes to
mind too when when it's completely
autonomous with milla jovovich and and
you just jump in the cab and yeah where
you headed I i love this i worked really
hard to learn how to drive standard but
then i would give that up for an
autonomous car just get in my car and
press a little button in a way i go
brilliant like it all right well let's
jump back to it folks interesting
conversations and love the way
technology is kind of changing in our
world and changing the way that we look
at the stuff that is so normal to us and
now all of a sudden is being flipped on
his head it's like now everyone's using
tablets and smart phones they're not
using computers that's right Wow how has
that changed in our you know to the last
10 10 years so all right Sasha so we
have created and scanned and touched up
this image for your stamp yeah
one of the things that I want I want to
do is just kind of crop it to the edges
a little bit just to kind of clean it up
doesn't really matter because we're
going to be able to lay this out so
let's just crop it and I just want to be
quick about it we could create an image
that is to the right proportions and I
call this stamp dot ping yeah you
remember why all right and then export
that so now I've got a file on my
desktop called stamp ping you could
create the file in the right dimensions
but they're going to they're going to
work just fine with with this look at
how much smaller it is now that we've
pulled that grain from the background
it's not crazy because there's just not
as much visual data it's just it's just
your signature and I've pulled all that
data from the background that was taking
out 15 mags worth of space in Linux I'm
just going to copy but you can just
browse to this let's go over here and go
choose by size and we had said we're
going to go with the two and now it's
taking me out because we've taken too
long cat5 TV / stamp all right shush now
choose by size there's our two and
three-quarter inch stamp right there we
go and we're gonna simply do this okay
so we're here we're getting ready to lay
it out this is what you were talking
about how you could enter text right
yeah well we don't want to do that so
you actually click the X clear your
canvas clean slate clean slate okay and
now you can't actually sign that space
but we've already created the image so
let's upload that and see how it goes so
let's go ad image browse we're going to
jump onto our desktop go to stamp in
there it is and upload image oh please
select I thought I did stamped out ping
open ah you know what I think it's
probably telling us that it's max max
file size one megabyte okay okay so it's
a little bit too big for this okay
because at one point four so how do we
correct that really really easy way is
to simply shrink down the image ever so
slightly but keep in mind
we can do that because we're working
with an image that is huge in the
resolution as far as this goes 2855 by
2050 one okay do you want to have that
option you connected that youment delink
thing I know what I know what we're
talking about proportions yeah yeah yes
I know I know what you're saying that's
this the chain way yes chain-link means
if i change the width that's going to
automatically change the height because
if i do image size and I turn that off
and I go 1,500 watch what happens to my
image it's going to warp it yeah oh yeah
that looks so you want to keep it
proportional we go image scale image
keep it proportional with this chain
link and let's just try two thousand by
1437 now i'm going to change this now
that I've done that I can change this to
inches and see that it is in fact bigger
than three inches wide and it is it's 27
inches my signature will never be that
big right but I want to make sure that
the resolution of the image that I am
working with and that I'm saving is
going to be bigger than the requirement
because if I have an image that's only
one inch wide and I scale it up it's
going to look all grainy and it's going
to look terrible it's not going to work
out for you so now i'm going to change
that to sync because it tends to give a
better a better anti-aliasing well less
anomalies on the edge now i'm going to
resave by clicking export there it goes
now we should hopefully have an image
that's under one meg oh it's actually
bigger that didn't work out in our favor
how did that happen all right let's make
it a little bit smaller even still how
did it possibly get bigger Sasha I don't
know right what have you done I think
that this is you time travel let's try
this okay file export to stamp here it
goes
when I made it smaller it got bigger
okay we're getting really really close
one point two Meg's and I'm going to
keep an eye on my how many inches it is
it's still 20 so who were perfectly fine
so let's do 1,000 then we know we're
going to be down there and it's going to
be just fine so if I'd view that at full
size it looks like that it's still huge
it's way bigger than anything that we
need on this and the reason for that is
because it is that we scan it at 1,200
DPI so we can scale it down and we're
not losing quality if you were scaling
up you would lose quality it's pretty
silly that staples in all honesty only
supports a one meg file because after
all only two million people use dial-up
two million that's nuts that's that's a
lot of you and a pin file under one Meg
okay we've got down to 6 21 k so that's
fine upload here we go here's the moment
and they say a minimum of five hundred
and seventy pixels wide we've uploaded
one that's what did I say a thousand
pixels okay return to designer there it
is and you see what I'm saying about
it's going to be kind of right in the
middle with a lot of white space right
see that so what you could have done was
right it a little bit more on a wide you
know a little bit wider right if you
wanted to this is going to be centered
into the stamp in this particular case
so that's what it's going to look like
on the stamp when you stamp not granular
like that but it's gonna look it's gonna
look good but that's that well that's
what it that's how it works nice there
you go add it to your cart yes good to
go please confirm all right it looks
good saving the job and we're done I
mean you got to pay that's it there you
have it folks so a couple of different
things that we learned today in order to
to understand how to get to the point
where we've got this stamp so what we're
going to get is an actual self inking
stamp with your signature and and all
that that you can stamp on the back of
receipts it sadly waitressing
I will send you a copy of my stamp on a
piece of patience stamping on like a
business card Elsa well no I residence
well I'm out of business cards firstly
and secondly our kind of glossy and
awesome oh yeah so I feel like ink won't
stick on it you buy a hamburger from her
and she will stamp the back of the
receipt that's right by a roll of
receipt paper so that you can send
everyone is everybody receipts I am
loving this it's my very favorite
episode ever episode 399 hard to believe
next week we are going to actually be
having a very special four hundredth
episode and I hope you can join us we're
gonna do things a little bit differently
because people have been saying you guys
should really do a cooking show and
while that's absolutely not possible
just because of time constraints next
week for our 400 they're going to do it
around the BBQ and we're just going to
hang out have a little chat about where
category 5 that has come from we're
going to talk about why we do what we do
and we're going to enjoy some burgers
veggie burgers hope you can join us yeah
make sure you you know grab grab some
some fire up the BBQ at six thirty or so
and you can join us yeah that's the best
will be eating burgers you can eat some
burgers too perfect so we look forward
to seeing you then it's hard to believe
400 weeks
how many that's 400 hours plus the
production hours how many hours do you
say that you have to do post-production
oh it's like many many many hours yeah
imagine it's like eight more than a
year's worth of hours you think in 400
episodes I'm not gonna mess Wow oh yeah
oh yeah I guess so good 52 weeks in a
year so yeah to be here to add it all up
and write a paycheck right at five
dollars an hour you'd have two billion
dollars nice anyway that says that's it
for us for tonight if you sent in a
question we didn't get to it tonight
make sure you tune in again and not next
well next week do tuned in but we won't
be having any of your questions next
week but we will have fewer questions on
episode number 401 and we will make sure
to get your questions in I know there
are great questions that we did not get
to I pre read them and wish that we got
to them oh oh it's only an hour long
they say in the chat room thank you
everybody for joining us tonight and
looking forward to seeing you around the
bar be next Tuesday night see ya we hope
you enjoyed the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
