for those who prefer Linux varsity
curious about linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV broadcasting from Barrie
Ontario Canada get ready for use and
interactive viewing experience have a
question call 2545 cat5 TV or email live
at category 5 TV and now here's your
host Ravi Ferguson welcome to episode
number 2 59 of category 5 technology TV
it's Tuesday September for 2012 nice to
see you thanks for being here tonight
and I'd like to introduce you finally
because there were there was some
confusion a couple weeks ago as you know
Sasha donate us hey official hello I'm
here nice to be here sasha is here to be
bugged in the chat room so you know make
sure you join the chat room saying Sasha
also there's some information on how to
get on to her bio and and say hi to her
nice to see everybody in the in the chat
room there as well John Dennis Kelly
Chris Reich hey buddy and guest Harry
yeah guess here there
nice to see everybody make sure you do
join us in the chat room is fun way to
interact with us during the live show
and how are you nervous yes fabulous
what do you mean three seconds Robbie
what do you mean 43 minutes Robbie don't
tell us a little bit about yourself
uh-oh what do you do what do i do I work
for a super awesome chiropractic clinic
with chiropractic assistant and I
waitress in bartend for fun Hammurabi
works as a hobby it can be done I was a
little bit offended before the show
though because she knows nothing about
these guys behind me I'm so sorry to
everyone she said she's like what is
that don't hate me I read this is what
Spock she literally do this I can do
this you can do that which is you know
that's a step in the right direction so
seriously if you didn't grow up on the
enterprise what on earth on earth that's
the point I didn't grow up on the
enterprise I grew up on earth nobody
liked it I I can't imagine no star trek
in your childhood oh no no no I'm sorry
we need to hook up this girl send your
DVDs DVDs sense if you love Abner made
us so it can you get an inch of dust 1
i'm sorry i love 1 i'll watch them yeah
I look at my homework absolutely yes
yeah ok welcome to the show uh we're
talking about all the stuff that she's
gonna memorize and do mm-hmm and I have
a list yeah so and I yeah go ahead and
we'll talk about what's coming up in the
news and all the fun stuff that we've
got we've got your viewer questions you
can email us live at category 5 TV again
join us in the chat room as well great
way to interact with us and sasha is
also going to be watching the chat room
for us tonight oh yes all right am i
doing the coming up and you don't need
that sure coming up in the newsroom your
eyes can control the new gaze TV
prototype the final pirate bay
co-founder has been
stood in Cambodia lexmark is getting out
of the inkjet printer business and Xbox
Kinect sensor may be used to help robots
navigate your home stick around these
stories are coming up later in the show
I love robots you I just love ya
anything about robots it's like road
Jarvis with rideable spiders awesome
that's right robots are kind of creepy i
think that they shall round your house
yes yeah we'll hear more emotive we will
hear more about it in about half hour
time super also join our mobile site
ready that's right m dot cat five dot TV
of course you can scan that code and
that would be a cool way to be able to
interact with or watch the show on your
mobile device we've got our mobile
devices here we've got a new one over
here from gwg we've got you've got your
deal there yellow not green so just
rewind the video back it up throw wine
scan that code or go to m dot cat five
dot TV so that's what we get we get
postcards from all around the world
which I love to receive because we love
to see where your phone will have to
hear from you we've got three this week
which is awesome thank you for sending
them in everybody alright so we have one
from Rochester New York okay dear Robbie
and crew greetings from the southern
shore of Lake Ontario Rochester is the
birthplace of Cab Calloway and longtime
home of blues musician son house the new
arch bridge you see over the Genesee
River is named for susan b anthony and
frederick douglass both of whom are
interred here keep up the great job with
the show and god bless you all all the
best chris Reich cheers chris you to
thank you and this is from spain hi
friends we got regards from somewhere in
Spain those ads um I'm gonna I'm gonna
make a guess it's somewhere this week
somewhere serving good story to Spain's
not her right I can't the best
TV show about linux and free software
best wishes Emilio cheers Emilio and
dear Robbie enjoy this phone i am the
volunteer recycle recycling coordinator
at my place of business I'm recycling
this to you I expect you to start
listening guru editor gadget wisdom that
is quite the quite the little trinket 22
rasiya now very very cool this is I
don't know Samsung device oh it's fing
it see ya it's yeah it is actually I
mean because we're used to the ipod and
iphone yeah we've got the on-screen
keyboard surprisingly actually this is
starting to feel a little bit clunky
compared to because of the seiyuu cousin
with have you been playing around on
this one i I a little bit see what what
she's talking about is the key keyboard
but uh I found its way better for
listening to music I love shoutcast
don't need a nice yeah look for the show
cast out are you familiar with it no
okay one on your iPhone install show
cast okay it's just simply called that
it's in the iTunes Store and show cast
lets you listen to music from all over
the world and it's they're basically
radio stations there you go and it's
amazing because you choose your John row
so okay here you go radio stations and
you've got all the lists of different
genres here check that out nice yeah so
if you want to go you know reggae reggae
big into reggae myself so then you go
and then you start listening to reggae
music gonna just you crank it up and
it's great oh it's authentic definitely
authentic anyway so I listened to it on
my ipod have for a long time loving on
the headphones but I have big trouble
with headphones on the ipod which is
surprising to me because I thought that
ipod would be a good device for
listening to music but if you actually
have to jiggle the wire a little bit
i'll run with the headphones you have
that price is it in all the way yeah
it's in all the
okay yeah I don't know but they're not
proprietary apple branded headphones ah
yeah I have a problem with all earbud
headphones because my ears are tiny okay
I can't put well this isn't like it
later these ain't cups over my ears
that's good education it's the actual
audio literally doesn't work on the ipod
so then I got this one from from gwg and
I've just that was the first thing i did
i installed win app on android it's
called win app and it comes with
shoutcast built into it okay I'll give
it a try if you're on Android and see
what you think but yeah really enjoying
it it's it's he says it's an older phone
so it's you know it is what it is it's
not as fast as some of the new stuff and
it's an older version of Android but
it's my first real handheld experience
with Android as far as that goes and
really really liking it a lot oh well I
thank you it would be so nice if there
was like an ipod touch of android
devices is there one do you guys know of
any like without the phone ship if you
know of one let me know okay Dennis
Kelly and the chat room wants to know
are you a mac user a little bit is that
a bad thing wait it it is isn't it I the
whole chat room just scoring they're
just so easy really no do you use mac um
I used to I used to have a macbook okay
but now you're a PC person that's right
that's right so we need to get you
looking at Linux that'll be the next
thing that's something that you'll get
familiar with on the show here give me
five it's a it's a different operating
system and alternative operating system
for your pc as opposed to windows okay
took me out michael is that what this is
you heard her folks she said about linux
hooked me up on the books bring in the
laptop will hook you up sounds good
alright we've got to take a quick break
Sasha does have your viewer questions
ready to go and we'll be right back
after this make sure you join us in the
chat room and also email live at
category 5 TV if you've got a question
for us we'll be right back at eco
alkalines we believe you should be able
to trust your batteries not just here
but
here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference Eco alkalines calm are you in
or near Barrie Ontario or feel like
making the journey meet the on air crew
of category 5 technology TV in person on
Tuesday September 25th as we celebrate
five years of bringing you free
technology TV the live show will be held
at bury Free Methodist Church on candles
road east and bury an admission is
absolutely free there will be prizes
during the show for those who attend as
well as a meet and greet following a
live broadcast doors open at six thirty
p.m. and we hope to see you there don't
miss this time of celebration with the
on air crew from category 5 technology
TV both past and present Tuesday
September 25th at 630pm for more details
visit category 5 TV this is category 5
technology TV and you can find us online
triple w category 5 TV and was mentioned
you can email us live at category 5 TV
and also join us in the chat room which
I feel foolish to say category 5 so many
times but our chat room just happens to
be category 5 caddy freenode yes sorry I
do I am ready category 5 TV is a member
of the tech podcast network if it's tech
it's here and the international
association of internet broadcasters
thanks Ashley so we've got your viewer
questions again greetings to everybody
in the chat room I'll kind of let you
take it away and all right here's a
question from Peter Lewis your dear
Robbie I wonder if it's possible to run
to wireless adsl Reuters on the same
routers on the same telephone line the
router I use is a Bluetooth router
it is it may be my fire router is a BT
Home Hub to the bit router runs upstairs
in my office and the telephone oh
absolutely i'm sorry and in the office
and the telephone comes in at the main
entrance to our premises and goes up the
stairs via cable splitter if i put the
down router wire in a different channel
to router upstairs and if the channel
one upstairs and channel 15 downstairs
so i think we're talking about Wi-Fi
yeah from what i can gather these i'm
sorry they're just a little hard to
follow follow the question but I gather
what Peter sang is that he's got a
couple of routers that he wants to
position throughout the house possibly
to increase your ability to kind of roam
throughout the house and do it if you've
got a house where you need to have
multiple routers in order to be able to
reach the Wi-Fi signal and you're you're
living in a big house man or you've got
a really low powered router here for
example I've got a single Wi-Fi device
and I've got it in the basement and
we've got three stories and we've got
perfect signal anywhere that we need to
go so it could be it could be something
other than having the Wi-Fi if I follow
your question correctly then I would say
I think what you're trying to do is is
set up access points as opposed to
multiple networks multiple ssids if I'm
following you correctly what you want to
do is you want to get an access point or
a firmware for your router than which
will support access point mode perhaps
dd-wrt installed on one of those routers
might allow you to do it what that would
do is it would connect into you know you
put it on the second floor and it would
connect to the router that's in the
basement and it would then rebroadcast
the signal again so that it makes it
stronger in the rest of the house that's
called an access point you can actually
buy access point devices they're not
overly expensive but they accomplish the
same thing but like I say a simple free
firmware update DD DD wrt may do it if
your router is compatible with with
access point mode so if I follow you
correctly that may be what I'm what
you're looking for invincible mutant
saying they could also be called a range
extender or a Wi-Fi repeater access
point is is usually the term that's used
and they're just you know they look like
a little fire alarm yeah you plug them
in and turn them on some of them are
ethernet-based which allows you to run
one wire to it and it gives you know
perfect signal that way and then you
know you've got the kind that that
simply you know kind of ad hoc repeat
the network also good for line of sight
outdoors if you want to you know put
Wi-Fi out in your shed for example you
could actually put one of these devices
oh say you know on a tower or something
you could have outdoor ones and it will
send a signal across so there's all
different things you can do hope I got
you there Peter as far as what you were
inquiring about so if you're curious if
you're not sure let us know the model of
the router that you have the one that
you want to turn into that device and
we'll see if we can find a firmware
whether it be tomato or dd-wrt see if we
see if we can find one is compatible so
excellent okay I've got a question from
Ron Smith hey Ron hi Robby and Eric this
is Sasha today I have been probably
thinking well last time you said sasha
was coming on the show it was there for
real don't let us down here Robbie here
we go I have been looking into the new
into the fit pc3 and found this link on
the mint box pro it may be of some
interest to some of your viewers HTTP
I'm gonna try don't worry okay do you
want to just put that in okay would this
work to run debian server virtual
machine that you explained on episode 2
56 and vsftpd server so an ftp server /
web server in something along those
lines yeah in this same virtual machine
what I'm going to do here is I'm going
to actually create a short URL just for
those who are curious about what is
being asked here for this device I
haven't looked at it yet so we'll call
this mint box so cat five dot TV / mint
box is now active and if I go there
there it is okay so that pretty similar
to the to the fit pc3 okay so let's look
at the specs it's got a dual head hdmi
output plus DisplayPort that's
interesting gigabit ethernet spdif audio
which you're not going to need for
server USB 3 end USB to SATA port that's
a bonus because you could put there's
two of them that means you can have an
external serial ATA hard drive two of
them actually and they're going to run
at the full three gigabits or that would
be my guess they're going to be three
gigabit ports externally so you could
plug in and you know a device like that
very cool it's got many serial port okay
what about the CPU and specs here we go
just rolling down a ways this looks like
the kind of an economical solution
actually so the the cheap one is 476
bucks so imagine you know it sounds like
a lot of money but when you think about
okay well this could actually be a
server this could be a replacement for
you know something that is your server
for example so I mean yeah it's got a 1
gigahertz dual-core processor with
radeon 60 to 90 graphics 9 wats who we
can you imagine that's an amazing how
would you say energy-efficient server
using only nine wats that's what I
expect that mean it's got four gigabytes
of RAM it's got a 250 gigabyte hard
drive comes pre-installed with Linux
Mint great you could just install Apache
on that and you're good to go and
anything else you need is got Wi-Fi
built-in up to N and Bluetooth three
it's got four USB faceplate module so
the only thing that would be a concern
to me is the hard drive is a 250 gig
spinning hard drive because it's not
specified as an SSD same thing with the
next one up this one's a little bit
faster
and it's got eight gigs of ram when a
hard drive in the device like the fit
pc3 or hear the mint box when it's a
spinning hard drive it's basically a
laptop hard drive they are built to be a
little bit more I guess less susceptible
to little jumps and things like that and
problems then say a desktop hard drive
because they're meant to be in a device
that you're moving so they're they're
not bad but solid state would probably
be a better way to go if you could put a
solid state drive in that then you're
going to eliminate the the factor of you
know crashed hard drive as far as the
spinning disk goes now not to say a
solid state drive can't crash as well
but in a case of a web server typically
if you set it up correctly with the
solid state drive and everything there's
going to be very minimal access to the
hard drive a lot of stuff is going to be
happening in RAM until you do a reboot
so so they can run for a very very long
time and then you just set it up so that
it's you know you've got a good backup
always have a good backup something like
that I what are you laughing about we're
gonna talk coming on I watched your
backup show yeah and I need to back
everything I own up i'm a bad back or
upper i totally understand the
importance of it lost all of my pictures
from a lot backing up yes every picture
from 0 2011 like before 2011 i have
everything else yeah so i need to rear
oh I totals and everything all my try
every picture every picture I have the
actual hard copy pictures I accidentally
lost in an unfortunate dump run no and
then you crash your hard drive any
contraband hard drives oh gosh case
scenario Sasha it's great for my family
who just gives me gifts of pictures now
and I cherish that do they have some
people must have pictures and yeah I'm
tariff I have a huge family so I have
lots of pictures of me with siblings for
my responsible siblings who do back
everything else so Sasha for the viewer
who sang it wouldn't happen to me what
would you say please back up almost
everything yeah always Bailey I try to
stress him I'm looking at this device
here for you and thinking about the fact
that it does have SATA output so you
could use that for a backup devices
three gigabits a second very very fast
okay set up an rsync script and get get
something going off site but that's
devastating and that is really truly
worth worst-case scenario yeah so it was
it on a hard drive it was on a hard
drive and it crashed yes is that hard
drive anywhere around it is at my ex's
house no so can it be so I've really
really lost connect I mean we can talk
about data recovery we can see if the
files could be brought back talk about
product I don't want to give you yeah I
don't want it yeah all right let's dress
in black yeah that's right there you go
shave my head Benden sending one of
these connects robots well if you could
get that hard drive somehow it look man
it's broken doesn't work anymore that's
right then I don't want to give you
false hope but there is a chance a
chance that we could possibly get files
back but that's never the way to go the
way is always to have redundancy some
form of a backup I think you know that
now I have learned my lesson so what are
you doing for a backup I haven't really
learned my lesson oh how many times do
we hear this folks I'm so sorry I really
want to get a backup company like click
free to sponsor the show or something
generous donor out there to just send
all of the co-host backup drives I feel
like we should move on to the next
question no but it's important because
you at home you think oh well I'm cool
like it's not going to happen to me or
you know I did it I had somebody come
into the office and they said that they
were doing backups and Krista recently
confessed to this to the very similar
situation but he was backing up on an
external hard drive in this particular
case doing it manually though okay his
backup Drive had run out of space
because he had bought a backup Drive
that was the exact same capacity as his
computer so it had run at a space and so
he stopped backing up he didn't have any
room to put stuff
okay so I said well how how old is your
backup then and he says it's probably
about a year old see you would lose
everything if you're from for that whole
year and and I don't know how many
pictures you taken a year on the digital
camera or videos or anything like that
but that would be devastated to lose a
year if it wasn't so intimidating if it
was easier than it was where clickfree
comes in and I say this because I know
they're watching hi click free I click
free we love your products teach me they
are the easiest I mean they let me show
me a device that's easier than click
free and I'll appeal to them for Sasha's
sake but but seriously yeah that's
exactly and I said to him that's the
problem I said this to Krista before the
problem is is this too tough to do a
backup we need to find a solution that's
just so simple mm-hmm click for you just
plug it in and backs up and you take it
away done you never have to think about
it that's what I need that's what you
need click free yeah show me the love
all right okay so this is an email from
Dave hey Dave hi Robbie I'm looking for
a simple HTML know PHP or a database
just HTML website for my consulting
business probably no more than five
pages can you recommend a good site to
find some website templates that I can
edit to suit my needs mm-hmm when you're
saying just HTML know PHP no data basing
nothing like that I think what you're
saying is you just want a basic website
but these days a lot of stuff is
scripted server side so it's it's
actually easier to obtain stuff that is
server-side script PHP or you know
something along those lines because it's
the web in its modern sense is not just
flat web pages flat files like looking
at a just a file that does nothing even
I guess this understanding what PHP
means versus what HTML means hTML is the
output to your browser from any language
so if I create something in PHP it is
outputting to my browser to my users
browser in HTML or XHTML whatever so the
HTML
10 is the interpreted code that I see
when I visit your website on the back
end though it could very well be PHP on
my website it's all running on PHP but
what you actually receive as HTML if you
go there right I ask a question you sure
can what is PHP sorry HP is I don't know
what that it's definitely purchase it's
a language it's languages okay yeah
excellent what we go in to create the
modern web the other one language that
you can use looking at our site which is
developed exclusively in you know PHP
and surrounding open source technologies
like MySQL and things like that you'll
see that the output is actually html5 if
I view the source so this is what you
see if you were to look at the source it
is HTML right but on the server side
it's in fact all done with PHP so that
means server-side languages PHP the
output is HTML that's what you're
actually receiving so just to understand
you probably don't don't limit yourself
to strictly HTML because you think that
it's going to be a flat website because
really what you're what you're going to
receive with PHP is something like
WordPress right which is a blogging
platform which makes it really really
easy to set yourself up with a website
and it's free so I would start with I
mean wordpress.com would be the place
where you go to get a fully hosted site
or blog but it's going to be you know
Sasha donatus dot wordpress com on the
other hand if you have a web host we've
got your own com you can go
wordpress.org on the other hand and you
can actually download the software that
they use to power wordpress com and you
can set that up on your own server
reason that I say that is because yes it
is PHP I know you're saying that you
want to get away from PHP and just go
flat HTML but realistically in today's
modern web landscape you're probably not
going to find anything current you know
probably all HTML for stuff and that
kind of thing
so I would start with WordPress if
absolutely you're you're opposed to any
kind of server side stuff just go on to
on to your favorite search engine I'm
just going to try it right now HTML
template I might even try HTML for
template just because that's probably
going to get me to something that's non
server side but whether or not yeah I
don't I don't know of any resources that
will actually feed you with templates
that are attractive chat room do you
have any suggestions for our viewer
guest 2462 riddle says WordPress these
days is much more than just blogging
software and that's true that's why I
would suggest it for a five page website
nice and simple very very easy to set up
and feel free to go to wordpress com set
one up for free try it learn it and
configure it the the themes are easy to
get because you just go in and it's a
plug-in and you just tell it what theme
you want and it will install for you so
once you're happy with it then download
the actual software get your own calm
and you're good to go right any other
suggestions in the chat room I'll just
say it was that David that was asking
that just let you know that you know
check out the chat logs for episode
number 2 59 excellence all right Toby
from Wales asks hey Toby hi category 5
gang I have a question for Robbie I was
just wondering what year was it he got
into linux and what was his first distro
and why he made the switch also when
gnome to completely finishes on distros
like debian squeeze and a boon to clint
10.04 will you be going for mate or
session fallback that I love that you
were just like I was wondering when you
got into
linux is it like there wasn't an
assurity in your voice that is linux is
it limits okay actually absolutely and
we're gonna learn all about when did i
get in the linux and why interesting
question but yea years ago i actually
got kind of sick of the whole microsoft
game i know it's a long time ago i
started dabbling with with linux um
thinking 99 pardon me 99 and it was um
was my first linux caldera open linux
really really old stuff and it was
horrible horrible Red Hat was terrible
back then everything was just like
really bad poor do eyes and stuff but it
was a it was a growing kind of thing and
then lindos came out lindos from michael
roberts robertson the guy who founded
mp3.com and then sold it out and ticked
off a lot of people and then did the
same thing with lindos he built it
created this great operating system it
was kind of like what a boon to is to
linux now and don't don't hold that
against me for saying that don't I know
the problems with Windows but in that it
was really driving for linux on the
desktop so they worked on improving the
interface they which worked hard on
getting que te to be really really sleek
and user-friendly and windows esque so
the people who were coming from windows
could easily adapt palenik so that
really got me to the point where I could
switch to linux exclusively and it was
debian-based so now you know why i'm in
love with debian so ok it's dis Linux
now here on here is no I'm ashamed to
say this is oh this one is right look at
how will I ever learn okay well you will
cuz look at you look at that fixed oh I
asked it questions yeah now the chat
room is furious at me from there from
windows which turned al inspire then
free spire and then got absorbed by
xandros and destroyed and once again
michael robertson sold out tues and rose
disappeared and and it ticked off a lot
of people and left
free spire and linds fired to die and so
then wound who came out and that's when
I switched to a boon to so yeah did I
get everything about the question yeah
what happens when yes squeeze and all
that's okay so what's gonna happen when
we lose known to completely you gotta go
with the flow i suppose i mean this is
the way that they're pushing but
hopefully i'll be able to keep up with
the hardware because everything is going
touch screen i mean is happening with
windows 8 it's happening with ubuntu and
linux in general things are going very
touchscreen ask or at least hybrid i
controlled I controlled which we're
going to be talking about and we're
gonna actually be demonstrating today as
well so interesting interesting yeah
thanks for the question and yeah we've
got two we've got to get into the news I
don't even die in for this segment and I
tried to keep it pretty pretty good mmm
so okay look here she goes here we go
here are the top stories from the
category 5 TV news room but I control
television has been unveiled at berlin's
IFA tradeshow hires gays TV uses
technology developed by two
with swedish firm which already offers I
tracking technology for computers users
control the set by staring at the top or
bottom of the screen to activate a user
interface the user can then change the
volume switch channels or carry out
other functions by looking at icons
shown on the display cool now could that
not be problematic I mean just thinking
out loud but if there's more than one
person watching the TV for one oh yeah
yeah or if they are somehow socially
awkward and not able to maintain eye
contact yeah yeah it's they're always
looking gamzee problem that keeps
bringing up the menu yeah yeah if
they're ultra focused on something they
just can't draw their eyes away from me
there's a fly oh it keeps clicking on
things because you're looking at it John
you're I know yeah I can see some work
needs to be done sort of like that
underwater wheelchair yes yes has flaws
all right so one of the founders of the
popular file sharing website Pirate Bay
has been arrested in Cambodia and will
be deported in accordance with their
immigration laws godfred smart home varg
was held after an international warrant
was issued against him in April by his
native Sweden Sweden acted after he had
failed to show up for the start of his
one-year jail term for copyright
violations warg and the three other
founders had said the website was within
the law warg along with the site's
co-founders and financier Carlin Carl
lundström were convicted by a Swedish
Court of encouraging copyright
violations in 2009 hmm the other three
all had their one-year jail terms
reduced between four and ten months
following an appeal in 2010 they were
also ordered to pay nearly seven million
dollars in damages for copyright
infringement to music and movie
companies however warg did not attend
the appeal hearing with his lawyer
saying that he was too ill and clearly
recovering in Cambodia
the Swedish Court then decided to uphold
his sentence according to the BBC no
copyright content is hosted on the sites
web servers instead it hosts torrent
links to TV film and music files held on
its users computers Cambodia and Sweden
do not have an extradition treaty so it
is unclear to which country he will be
deported Wow seven million dollars and a
thing like the end they were under the
impression that oh yeah this is done
we're just linking to the files ha do
they have 7 million dollars is this a
company that well I don't know right you
know if it was just a drop in the bucket
I would just no it's not like it's not
like that it's like I think I think
anyways would would Pirate Bay not be
just like few hacker guys and you know
sharing files and feel like a name like
pirate bay I have a little logo just
kind of yeah oh yeah exactly bring on
the gold first of all you know you're
something doing something wrong if you
have pirate in your name The Pirate Bay
nothing illegal here just colors those
pirates yes no our only non Sweden
Swedish news piece that's an interesting
fact lexmark has announced it will quit
the inkjet printer business as part of
its efforts to improve its profitability
they plan to stop development of inkjet
printers by 2013 and close their inkjet
supplies factor in the philippines by
2015 wow it added that 1,700 jobs would
be lost as a result lexmark will
continue to sell laser printers and also
focus it on its imaging software and
document management services brilliant
strategy right there yeah it's like okay
I have an idea to make more money we're
gonna fire everybody that's and stop
making stuff yes we will dream you big
bucks that's surprising though I mean
lexmark of course getting out of the
consumer realm with inkjet printers but
they've always been kind of a
a big name at least here in Canada as
far as accessibility goes I wonder if
you could do tours and all that you
could do a green spin on that and really
make it work with lexmark absolutely
because they're one of the worst as far
as you know like multiple all the inks
are in one cartridge in these cheap
cheap printers that you buy right so
then you've got to replace the whole
cartridge or better yet the printer was
only 50 bucks the cartridge is going to
be a hundred we're just gonna throw away
the printer and buy you a new printer
yeah dell terrible terrible they'll have
some marketing masters on this yeah
Swedish researchers are asking people to
use their Xbox Kinect sensor as a
scanner to grab detailed emmitt detailed
3d images of the stuff in their homes
the connected home project requires mass
participation to accumulate many
examples of common household objects the
scans will build up a library of objects
which robots can consult as they
navigate around homes speaking of
pirates so there we go I'll have some
xbox kinect robot thieves okay you think
that's that's what's really going down I
mean everything is malicious two sashes
that's right yeah you know the whole
connected home thing they're really just
trying to spy on you they just want to
be everybody layouts of your whole house
they're looking for the tech guy who you
know as a multi-billionaire who's gonna
go through his house with the Kinect
thing and they're just count like a 3d
to see who doesn't shop at IKEA it's
what you're gonna do we're kind of ikea
asked chairs that's right the category 5
technology TV news room can be found a
category 5 TV / newsroom the category 5
TV news room is researched by roy w Nash
with contributions by our community of
viewers if you if you have a new story
you think is worthy of on-air mentioned
email newsroom at category 5 T V dot for
the category five dot TV news room I'm
Sasha dramatis you actually read the dot
after the email address like category 5
TV does that appears just a full stop
that 10 they make them look so similar
to stop full stop sorry ignore that last
I don't like that in tonight Joe is
brought to you in part by quarter II
electrical contracting inc they are the
official electrical company of category
5 technology TV and you'll find them
online at quarter eee electric com also
get your free one month pass to Netflix
yes I said free and it is awesome go
check out the shows on Netflix cap five
TV / Netflix and you will get your one
month free this is category five
technology TV and i'm your host Robbie
ferguson joined tonight by Sasha door
made us good to have you here and fun so
far yes can you believe that you're 40
minutes into the show I just looked at
the clock and thought okay I can do this
news done here you're through the news
and I was like it's right I know I ran a
half marathon last year I feel like I'm
equate this to the half marathon I met
like kilometer 17 right now just like
that yeah we're good I on the other hand
did not run a half marathon last year I
didn't even run a quarter of a marathon
I actually drove to get to the store on
the corner Oh Ravi sorry least I do my
backups Touche Touche Tuesday we looked
at a device a little while ago here on
category 5 Hillary and I that allowed
you to basically we're a special
baseball cap or put a dot on your
glasses that would allow you to control
your computer using infrared technology
now we started looking for a different
way to do things because people said to
us well that it's one it's a very
expensive device and to you know you've
got you know if I'm sitting at work I
can't wear a baseball cap right in order
to control my computer if I wanted to be
able to control my computer that way I
think about accessibility for people who
have mobility issues perhaps in their
upper body and they can't they can move
their head but they can't necessarily
work with a mouse that's that can be a
problem when it comes to using a
computer also you know not just
accessibility but also for gaming and
things sometimes that can be kind of
cool if you're able to actually move
your head to to control the character
but definitely is an accessibility
feature
it's it's really interesting I mean
we're talking a little bit earlier you
were mentioning in the news about this
television set that you can control with
your eyes and while that sounds kind of
silly right now yeah well there was a
time when we didn't have touch screens
and it seemed kind of sci-fi ask right
right so now that you could just look at
something and blink or wink and it does
something what if you had a lazy eye
that would be the channel keeps changing
exactly gonna take oh dear oh no you
think of everything like what if so
that's a question for the technology
giants that's right for sure i'm gonna
try crossing my eyes when we test this
out later we could try mimicking a lazy
eye tonight not just for those viewers
who have that issue and need to be able
to do this but what I set out its find
is a way to do this without any
additional hardware right without any
additional costs being able to control
your computer with your face as I say
well with your head just with an Assad
just with drumming your head to move
your mouse things like that do you think
it can be done I'm skeptical are you
skeptical let's give it a try i'm gonna
bring up a very very special website
here cat five dot TV / camera Mouse i
just called it that just to get you
there nice and easy nice if you're on
windows default download is a windows
download and of course the sources
available there's a repository for
latest versions stuff like that but over
on the right-hand side you'll see hey
look at that there's a compiled version
for Kubuntu which also means it will
most likely work on other distros that
are based on a boon to great i'm using
Zorin OS so that's perfect there are
instructions to install from source as
well if you're using a different version
of Linux so what we're going to do is
simply copy the first line this is
called this software is actually called
enable via cam I should say that right
off the top
it's called enable via cam so that's
that's where it's called EV a cam on the
web and stuff like that the packages I
think are called that so what we're
going to do is we're gonna actually
install this from a custom PPA so cool
stuff a personal package archive thank
you on Linux what's cool is that you can
install stuff without any disks without
having to find the downloads without
having to get a CD I mean now in these
days I mean that's progressively
becoming old hat because we don't
generally use CDs anymore uniting I
don't know when was the last time I ever
installed software from a piece of media
other than my operating system right but
with Linux it's always been the case and
it's it does a really great job of
packaging everything in repositories so
basically their servers scattered
throughout the web and if you want to
install any piece of software you just
if you know the name you can install a
just by typing in the name and it goes
you don't have to find the website you
don't have to download the installers
you don't have to do any of that stuff
oh so that's what we're gonna do tonight
using what's called a personal package
archive PPA yes I think that's what it
stands for correct me if I'm wrong let's
see anybody and watching the chat rooms
make something obviously we'll just say
no we're gonna be wrong yeah what it
means basically is that the developer of
this software has created a place on the
web for you to be able to install it
from aa very very simply so because I'm
on an ubuntu based distribution which is
zorn OS ubuntu is a version of linux
Zorin OS which is what i'm on is a
version of ubuntu that makes sense it
becomes kind of convoluted ok so I've
copied the first line i'm going to paste
it enter enter your password because
it's using super user do and let it go
ok and then sudo apt-get update based it
again that's my second line that's
getting all the latest package
information from the web ok ok and then
the final step as easy as this is is to
install the software this is the command
that does it
sudo apt-get install and then the name
of the program e via cam ok so I'm going
to paste that into my terminal here it
goes so it's actually going out on the
web grabbing the files that it needs in
order to install this and putting it
into my computer how cool is that but
it's fascinating mm-hmm nice thing about
that to Sasha just thinking of how
repositories work on on linux if this
person who develops that software brings
out a new version mm-hmm my computer
will automatically get that new version
I don't have to you don't ok it or yeah
you kind of do like you get just like
you get your windows updates on windows
right but it gives you updates for every
single piece of software that's
installed in your computer so if imagine
if you had a you know a version of
QuickBooks installed and they brought it
a new version and all you have to do is
say yes and it would install the new
version would that be easy on linux all
the software that you have installed if
it's been installed through repository
it will tell you hey there's a new
version you can say yes and it will
automatically install everything that it
needs to make that new version work so
that's why we're doing it from a
repository here if you install from
source you don't get that benefit so
that is done just like that so I need
clothes out of that you still could go
do an update you just have to look for
it then you would have to do it right if
you did it from source you'd have to go
find the new version source reinstall
here because we're using a repository
I'll be getting the new version every
time it comes out ok so i can close out
of that window and go applications and
somewhere in here probably under
universal access there it is enable via
cam gonna go in there now you can't see
my mouse pointer right now so i'm
actually going to restart comp is and
that should give us a mouse pointer oh
that was cool so you can actually see
that it's tracing my head there it was
where your face is it knows where my
face it's already doing better than I
expected is it that's pretty impressive
already just out of the box ok that's
right
so I'm actually going to close it and
I'm going to we're going to restart comp
is so i can see if i can get a mouse
there we go look at that you got a mouse
cursor okay so under universal access
enable via cam there we are ok there's
my head ok so it's saying ok here's a
wizard we're gonna calibrate here so
let's get my webcam now if you've got a
laptop of course you've just got the
laptop in front of you that's that's
cool here I've just got this little guy
so that's what I'm going to use ok
position it so it's whoa position
there's looking at my face there it will
find your face yes well if you've got
like I say a laptop it's really really
simple because it's always looking at
you when you're on it right so let's
give it a try gonna click Next ok so
it's already it's already detected my
logitech quickcam pro 4000 just an old
old old camera but i just plugged it in
the USB tonight just for the sake of the
demonstration and it works out of the
box next locate face automatically yeah
disable EV a-- cam if no face is found
probably a good idea i'm gonna leave it
off just because we're gonna start with
defaults tonight i would probably
recommend turning that on because if I
step off the screen and it thinks that
something is a is moving it might move
the mouse it might yeah and then if it
hovers it's going to click things and so
that might be enough thank your house
fly is a face but then again you know
what I'm gonna turn it on because it
obviously sees my face it's got the
square around my face so that's pretty
cool away when you move your face I far
you remove your face no no it's fading
look at there we go hey nose and then
when I come back how soon does it detect
the media already knows yeah ok so I'm
gonna actually disable EV a-- cam if no
face is found remember i'm just using
this cheap old webcam just tu SI me to
my no webcam ok so we're going to
perform assisted
calibration absolutely here's work is
fun move your head left and right okay
now here's the trick make sure you keep
your eyes on the screen don't turn your
head so far when you're calibrating that
you can't see the screen because then
you're stuck having to turn where you
can't see the screen move it up and down
not clicking anything I'm just doing
what it tells me happy this is you and
not me yeah well you get your turn come
on I'm moving up and down calibrate whoa
okay now I've got a mouse pointer can
you guys see that oh so now okay I'm
gonna hover over okay with my face yeah
and then I'm is link click no it
actually clicks because I've hovered
okay huh yeah I know I look silly that's
okay alright so now I am hands-free yeah
so I'm actually moving the mouse just by
kind of looking if I go up to them the
man yeah okay this is awkward oh maybe
be a little more conservative with your
calibration don't do this when you're
actually chatting with people or Owen or
on TV yeah you know this is awkward can
I get the application menu that's what I
want to know how easy is this just hover
yep Peverley please see a chiropractor
before attempting this okay look at this
look at this I'm doing it I'm doing it
now I've never done this so you know it
takes a little bit of work I think to
learn how it's done but look I'm
actually doing it I think this is doable
it's a bit tricky okay cool yeah I know
you got to hold really really still if
you want to click on something so let's
see if I can actually click on one of
these smaller things let's try to get G
at it up
look at that oh i will admit i doctored
o'donnell a are you blown away I'm
literally just moving my head and it's
actually very natural just like a TV
that you can control it looks so natural
but it works ok now its ashes turn we're
gonna we're gonna get this calibrated
for you ok now this is weird because it
sees there we go okay I get that off the
screen cuz it sees me ok you ready for
assisted calibration ok so now do I have
to take my glasses off no okay the
toughest thing is setting up the camera
there we go ok assisted calibration left
and right keep looking at the screen
don't stop looking at the screen that's
hard sorry k up and down so I I think of
you know if so look at the movement the
sash is doing and consider she's not
having to move her upper body at all so
this is all neck and head which is you
know for somebody who needs ok look
you've got mouse control now it's tricky
try to get over to ok sensitive oh you
timed out oh if this was a game I win
try a tough stuff ok there you go so
you've got mouse pointer that's and it's
actually following your head yeah but
you can I can sense that it mm-hmm if
you if you get used to it it's actually
functional this again is called enable
via cam it's available it's a free
download cat five dot TV / camera Mouse
it's available definitely on windows and
the Linux not sure if you can compile
the source for mac or not but definitely
windows and linux you'll be able to do
this now if you hover over disable
motion you'll be able to actually
I don't know you just kind of stopped
moving and then it stops the mouse and
then it clicks if you wait 45 seconds
that's that looks good there you did it
mixed on your first it was the massive
button like it was the biggest button on
the screen thanks Robert thanks by the
way I clicked on application that i even
got she added it up sometimes bigger
head than I have Oh somehow they're
always able to turn everything into an
insult that's it you're done I'm turning
off your camera Mouse so you can't
control the computer anymore again
enable via cam or via cam cat5 TV /
camera Mouse I think that's pretty cool
and definitely a good you know a good
accessibility feature of your computer
and if it works on Windows and it works
on linux then you're good to go give it
a try if you've got a webcam in your
system might be a fun little experiment
as well you can feel what what that
feels like to have to use your head to
control stuff it's a little bit
different as you you're it's it's like
well you're used to being able to look
at something and your eyes just go to it
with this kind of technology though you
actually have to kind of your kind of
nudging the mouse mm-hmm you kind of
feel like you're nudging it with your
head you have to have such good control
of your eyes to control with your eyes
then you can't glance away from anything
right you have to be completely focused
could that technology they'll use some
kind of reflective technology kind of
like what red eye is caused by like if
it sends a like a light into your eyes
and then it captures the reflection of
that what if you have a cataract well
then you would have trouble possibly
what we're only 1i yes you have one is
that that makes it tough you're a pirate
yes from the pirate bay and they are
spending years in prison and a seven
million dollar fine hey we'll have you
had fun tonight Sasha I have a right
time flies time does fly three minutes
left direct we won't two and a half men
two and a half minutes so
folks at home live at category 5 TV we
love to receive your email your
questions your comments remember to send
in your postcards thank you to everybody
who send one in this week thank you to
gwg for sending in that android device
very very cool thing to receive and lets
me actually do some testing on android
which I love so and I'm going to have to
tune into Android buffet as well android
buffet calm appreciate them oh yeah yeah
the Guru Dennis Kelly in the chatroom
says hey great job sasha d thanks guys
Joe Sasha Robbie mmm Jeep on seven well
done sasha d Toby one guest Harry says
thanks Sasha d you're welcome guest
Harry yes Thank You Ashley you did great
tonight says old guy Jim thanks for
coming in Toby one Dave may do nice show
guys thanks for thinking of me
appreciate that invincible mutant in
civil mutant yeah like it ok hmm we're
just watching the chat room here fly by
if you want to read the notes it's in
the show notes for episode number 2 59
and hope you had a fun time tonight next
week very very exciting i can't tell you
all the details but we're gonna have
somebody on the shoulder right you
trying to know about this I sorta know
about this this is supposed to be my
show I know they had to bump it back
when you're dealing with people from
Warner Brothers sometimes they have to
move around the schedule I got just a
long writable email about how great the
show was gonna be and then I got a
second email five minutes later five
minutes later I take that back will be
controlling yeah with no it's still
gonna be a great job it was a great show
but it's just not gonna be the same
guest on the show that's all so next
week we are going to have a very special
guest who's going to be joining us and
talking about a brand new television
show from Warner Brothers digital Warner
digital and that's going to be very
exciting so make sure you tune in next
week
and Hilary will be here for that show as
far as you go thank you for being here
you're going to be involved in the 20
air in the fifth anniversary party oh
that's Ronnie fifth hope that everyone
can make it that's right gee pop seven I
will be back yes part of the team now
season six I'm strong we're expanding
for for season six so make sure you
stick with us and hope you have a lot of
fun thanks Sasha thank you thanks
everybody have a great week we'll talk
to you soon oh I forgot yeah I can like
do that now I'm still learning the
system it's all new to me we hope you
enjoyed the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Gary Ontario Canada
every tuesday at seven pm eastern if
you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area and category 5
watt TV and find out when you can watch
live and interact in the community chat
room category 5 is a production of
quantity digital solutions and is
licensed under creative
attribution 2.5 Canada you see you next
time thanks for tuning in
