[Music]
welcome back this is category five
technology TV now have you ever had your
internet go down what's the best thing
that you can do when your internet goes
down just as the first thing that you
can do to try to get it back up I was
gonna say sledgehammer but then you said
first thing so it's start with a settlor
like the third thing okay turn it off
and on again did you try turning it off
and on again so and that's the thing if
you are there so your internet goes down
yep and you can run into where the
router is right and you can unplug the
power from the router and the modem how
many of you have been through this even
if you call the ISP the first thing that
they're gonna say have you tried turning
it off and on again and that usually
fixes it right am i right yeah my right
it reconnects and bingo bango you're
back in business
exactly so why does it happen well there
are little fluctuations in electricity
your your power may like go down just a
little bit to a few volts below and then
come back up to normal and you may not
even notice it but your sensitive
electronic devices like your modem your
router they notice it and they lock up
right when that happens you unplug the
power you let it sit for fifteen seconds
you plug it back in it comes back up and
miraculously somehow it works again it's
magic mm-hmm so off and on again switch
the magic that we learned from the IT
Crowd Henry when you were last here we
started talking about becoming builders
becoming makers starting to craft our
own inventions and creating things with
a soldering iron and I'm still waiting
for my spaceship but yes we're working
on it okay so far all I've been able to
come up with is a little thing that
restarts my modem when the it's a start
okay so I built this Henry ooh how's
that look right it's a box it's a box
I'm gonna bring it up on the screen just
a little bit closer for you folks so
that you can see so this box has a power
cable coming out of it which way am I
going here we go so a power cable
out of it it has a power inlet right
there a USB port and that is literally
it pretty simple right nice what do you
think it could do I kind of hint it to
it so with this device what I've
designed what I've invented if you will
is something so I plug my modem in the
power cord from my modem into that okay
then I plug this which matches it it's
the same adapter into the modem okay so
the power goes in there this goes into
the modem now this USB port plugs into
my router it's mikrotik router so I'm
able to actually program that router
with some customized code okay so I
built this first then I wrote a program
that pings websites on a schedule so
every five minutes it will check if
Google's up it will then check if
Twitter is up and if it's if any of
those are down it will say is Facebook
up and it will check that because my
theory is all of those are not ever
going to be down at the same time yeah
these are I think it even checks
Microsoft comm like I mean one of them
might go down but not all of them so
it's like a ranking system this this
device that I designed will rank whether
the Internet is up or down based on if
all of those sites are down and there's
a list that I've programmed into it that
are basically sites that I would expect
probably would never go down Google if
it goes down is Twitter up yeah so it's
Google is that a problem and it will it
will make that assumption interesting so
if all of them are down and more than
five minutes has passed this device will
then cut the power to my modem wait for
5 seconds and then power the modem back
up again basically simulating the fact
that while simulating somebody being
there and unplugging the power and
plugging it back in again 9 times out of
10 genius thank you nine times out of 10
at 10 it brings it back up that's great
because but so and why did I do that
well I'm often remoting into my
computers
in order to do that the internet has to
be up yes if I'm remoting in and the
internet goes down who's there to
restart the router right yeah in this
case the modem then my modem died and
the ISP replaced it with the new gigabit
modem and I was like yes I got the
gigabit modem it's better it's faster
it's yeah right and it did not have the
same adapter it's a straight 110 volt
into the outlet right into yeah so this
unfortunately is no longer any use to me
but guess what chicken butt that was
just step I have young kids that was
just step one yeah so the next step will
be the next one
you're like Iron Man you know surest
right you're gonna know I'll build the
next bigger better faster one right
right I will do that because I like I'm
in for the challenge
right but you notice what do you notice
about this you called it a box its Lu
it's a box yeah
and it's blue because because I being
the maker that I am I like things to
look like a prop device it's a proper
device that's it's so I built it myself
but it cost me forty five dollars Oh in
components I wonder you could do better
that's my time so the inner comprar
biblia I could build it cheaper would be
but I built it and it still cost me a
fair bit of money but it was the
experience and I learned and I'm
learning to be a maker and money you
could buy a hamster that runs in the
wheel am i right
and then just powers the modem all day
right so that's exactly right
and that is what we're looking at
tonight folks a hamster wheel power no
we're not actually go
I forgot we changed the you know
vegetarian and there's the whole like
you know yeah I gotta take good care of
the animals but what happened is when
when we reveal when we unveiled this
product yeah a company reached out to me
and said hold on we've got just the
thing for you what is that and the
company happens to be called are you
ready for this reset plug
huh reset plug that's the name that's
the name of their product anyways now
the company is called multi net and you
want to be careful as you're looking for
that for this device because there are
other devices that look similar they
maybe boast that they might do the same
thing but I've looked this is a
fantastically developed device and it's
patent pending
so you're all good you're yeah this is
like the real deal folks so like then
the brand name of this particular kind
of device so what does it do it takes
the same kind of premise of what I
devised in my device but it makes it
into a 110 power outlet or or otherwise
so let me show you this okay here is the
reset plug ladies and gentlemen it's
like actuate should we get into the box
so this becomes an unboxing video oh
look at this
yeah unboxing of a reset plug it's
unboxing is my very favorite for this
reason yeah so I mentioned 110 volt but
there are four different versions of
this so we've got the Americanized
Canadian version like 110 got the one
that works in Australia in Asia in
Europe so you can get resent yeah and
and I say that just so that you don't
think oh well this doesn't apply to me
because it's 110 it's American outlet
well they they have one for everybody so
don't you worry about that so I'm gonna
show you how to set this up and how it
works okay okay so what this one does is
it takes my idea and they didn't copy my
idea obviously they are they one up to
me on pending folks but this is like you
know I have the the thought that hey
this would be a cool thing they actually
are doing this and doing it right it's
their full-time gig yeah this is so this
is just it plugs in and you plug in your
modem or or your modem and router
because you might want to restart both
you plug them in via like a power bar or
something like that in like yeah so it's
so super duper simple to set this up to
just demonstrate house and
I'll tell you that the instruction
manual is very thorough and yet we're
getting a full unboxing here unboxing
folks that's the whole manual oh it's
like it's a plugin I could probably do
this yeah you want to take a look I just
want area so we're gonna plug it in
we're gonna set it up we're gonna see
what happens here now all I have to do
with this device is plug it into power
it lights up and it's waiting for
commands or something to be plugged into
it so I don't have a modem that I can
just turn off right here right now
because then we lose access to the show
and you're gonna miss out on everything
that we teach you so what I did bring
with me Henry accidents every single
show we do something where I need to buy
a thing you want to lamp okay ladies and
gentlemen this is so we've got light
right okay so what were what we're
imagining here is that this illuminated
object over here that Sasha so badly
wants is our modem okay so if the modem
were if the power was cut on the modem
it would look like that and then the
power comes back on and it's actually
going to be you know powered back on
okay so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
get over here on my computer and we're
gonna show you how this is set up so I'm
gonna switch over to my computer here
for you so this is my Wi-Fi router and
I've set up a demo Wi-Fi access it's so
clever Henry how they've done this
because mine it has to be plugged into a
router with some software running and
that kind of stuff those came on because
it's saying it's restarting over and
over because there's no internet right
now ah yeah so how this one works it's
different it actually connects to my
Wi-Fi router Wow
well I got an actual wireless device yes
and if and it was that simple to set up
I just plugged it into the wall or to my
UPS or to my power bar so with that it's
can it's trying to connect to my router
and if the internet is down
it will Reese restart the power to
whatever's plugged into it being my
modem in my router right
my roommates gonna love this and here's
why I have to tell you okay
we have internet upstairs and downstairs
we have the basement apartment upstairs
perfect yeah remember we have device
downstairs we have the router where the
home we're not always home and the
internet goes down okay all right all
right so this is my Wi-Fi demo Wi-Fi
okay so what I'm gonna do is I'm simply
going to push a button on the device
there's one button that's how easy it is
the lamp just turned off okay and I just
hold that in for five seconds and then
let go and then back at my computer if I
check for wireless access points mm-hmm
they're reset plug setup just popped up
did you see that it happened just as I
brought it up so I'm gonna click on that
and I'm gonna connect so it basically
has created its own hotspot for me okay
now I wanted you to see this my Wi-Fi
set up just so you see that my Wi-Fi is
called demo Wi-Fi okay so now I am
actually connected to the reset plug
okay light just came back on because
it's still trying to reconnect so now
I'm gonna go to 10.1.1.1 in my browser
now that I am connected to the reset
plug I believe I am no I've disconnected
well here it is okay there it is again
I lost my connection there maybe I
pushed it twice so let's reconnect
always double D yeah I tend to do this
there we go
so it's created a hot spot at 10.1.1.1
and it has DHCP so as soon as I connect
to it on its Wi-Fi with no password or
anything it's going to give me access to
the to the interface and I'll just
mention now you wonder well if it has no
password where's the security in this I
have to physically push that reset
button in order to activate the internal
component that allows a Wi-Fi connection
it's connected now so unless I've
clicked on unless I push that button
it's not gonna let me do that
it says no internet but I am connected
obviously there is no internet but you
notice that 10.1.1.1 has changed it's no
longer not found it's asking me for my
Wi-Fi setup ah ok so back at my router
you remember it was called demo Wi-Fi
now this is case sensitive so I need to
enter that exactly as it is okay you
notice that it came up there that's just
because I've tested this in the past and
I know that it works my password this is
the actual password for the wireless
device the wireless service the the
Wi-Fi your router your my wireless
connection guy so I'm telling it now I'm
connected into it but I'm telling it how
to connect to my actual so when I
disconnect from it it's gonna know hey I
can connect your router nicely Sneaky's
yes okay so I'm gonna enter my password
here super secure and you can give it a
nickname if you want I'm gonna explain a
little bit about that but okay so outage
wait time how long does this thing have
to be down how long does it have to lose
connectivity to the internet before it
thinks internet is down I'm gonna say
two minutes for the sake of the
demonstration because we don't want to
wait five just to demonstrate it for you
how long do you want your modem and your
router and whatever else is plugged into
the reset plug to be off for before it
turns back on you can said that thirty
seconds if you want to be absolutely
sure but five seconds for the sake of
our demo is good and I'm gonna submit
that now it's sent set up is complete
it's done and it is actually going to
restart did I have it up there on the
screen you did okay fantastic good I
looked up it so the light turned off
imagine that's your modem okay so now
it's going to come back up and it's
going to connect to my internal Wi-Fi
which has internet so it's going to be
able to now communicate with the
Internet and it's going to say oh good
let's keep the power going there it is
my modem just came back on modem is
connecting DHCP is happening and this
device is trying to access that Wi-Fi
connections that I just set up I'm done
that's it that's it yeah as long as I've
got my modem and my router plugged into
that that are reset plug it's now doing
its thing you're all set I like it do we
take it to the next level and actually
test this thing can we see this other
power cord here yes that's the internet
connection when I pull that power cord
the internet is going to go down here
right when that happens if the reset
plug does what it is supposed to do
we're gonna see this light turn off for
five seconds and come back on are we
ready power still on right modems still
going it's still trying to connect maybe
the maybe the the Internet has gone down
momentarily somebody's working out at
the road and they just are adjusting
wires internet is down oh it's coming
back up reset plug is not doing anything
but if it's down for two minutes
consecutively because that's the setting
that we set so if we can carry a
conversation for two full minutes here
right we should see that the reset plug
is going to say there's no internet here
yeah let's power off right this is 100
percent just for like routers with Wi-Fi
right oh who doesn't have Wi-Fi in their
house this is powers back on its try now
it's given power back to the modem just
like I had unplugged it for five seconds
and plugged it back in and it's trying
to reconnect to the internet now so now
I haven't plugged it back in so it's
gonna keep retrying and if it does not
have internet now it's got a five minute
window right so internet does not now
come back within the next five minutes
it will power off again it will power
cycle because maybe there is work being
done in the area
something happened and so it's going to
just leave the power on for five minutes
like so smart if it has a connection to
the Internet and through that Wi-Fi
connection it would just keep the power
going 24/7 for you that's called the
reset plug you can pick one up at cat5
dot TV / reset plug it's one of those
things that's like before Internet still
down Internet's still down so it knows
that and it's coming back up so it just
power cycled the modem and it's waiting
for the Internet to come up that's why
that happened I just plugged it in so it
takes a few minute you know how Internet
is takes a few minutes to to come back
up so much there you have it I have a
question sure and it might be an odd one
but can I set it up using my phone Wi-Fi
there there wouldn't be any reason why I
couldn't right well your phone is
accessing your home Wi-Fi right so then
yes yes okay so the router at home is
the one that is providing the Wi-Fi to
you right so I can change that you can
set it to use that right but can you use
your phone to configure this device yes
yes you don't even need an app because
when I pull up my Wi-Fi on my phone okay
I'm gonna see the reset plug set up
Wi-Fi hotspot and then I can bring out I
can bring it up that way so yes I could
do that okay good for sure okay I don't
think yeah or whatever my computer
somehow doesn't you have Y by Y yo
that's right but is here's the thing so
your thought is that if I don't have
Wi-Fi on my computer I can't configure
the Wi-Fi for this device right so it is
true that you would not be able to
connect to this device to configure it
so that makes absolute sense from your
computer right but you could use your
phone to connect to that reset plug
Center effect SSID go to 10.1.1.1 on my
phone
change the access the SSID and the
password for your internal home Wi-Fi
right you use on your phone right and
then save it and it will connect to that
perfect yes okay yeah I use the laptop I
understand
my laptop's raise instrum yeah my laptop
stays at the studio and then my home
computer is hardwired in yes right and
so we don't have why would you access
that so that's where yes absolutely I
use your phone use your tablet your
anything else you want to know about
that device let us know email live at
category-five dot TV quickly I mentioned
that some of the extra settings that are
in the interface they're being able to
give it an alias for example now there
is a commercial app that you can use
that allows you to control multiple
reset plugs this is perfect for someone
who say has multiple properties and
wants to be able to look and monitor all
of the internet connections at these
properties ok perfect so you can through
that app that costs just 2 dollars a
month you have access to being able to
monitor them see their uptime status see
their historical uptime probably check
them on and off you can turn them off
and on again from a remote location
through your internet connection right
so all these things are part of that
commercial app so you can that therefore
that's why you can give them a nickname
you can call this one studio D and you
can call the other one home and so on
and so forth so check it out it's cat 5
TV / reset plug keep your devices
connected all the time with reset button
[Applause]
