sasha is actually I'll let you know
because I'm not sure if you're aware
sasha is building her own computer yes
yes this is from previous episodes right
it's a multi-part series currently a
part for and so do you want to kind of
explain what where we're at at this
point we're at the receiving boxes part
so last week we made a shopping list and
I immediately went home and I ordered a
whole bunch of stuff yeah super fun and
lots of the boxes have now arrived so
that's super cool so what do we whatever
guy I saw the CPU fan right I spot two
CPU itself the motherboard is beautiful
it is sharp it really is better than I
expected
yeah keyboarding mouse yeah said it
that's it yes yeah
other things are sort of on our way so I
really do want to thank Frank Joseph and
Robert who all have donated for the belt
thank you so much from the absolute
bottom of my heart I cannot wait to
share this with Dave and to show him all
that everybody's done from you know
coming up with the idea of like the
whole vision created by you so thank you
this is like the first cloud build
mm-hmm like you viewers you you've
helped to design the system to pick out
the parts to to even fund it now and we
appreciate that very very much if you'd
like to pitch in now understand that
this is a wedding gift for Sasha's
husband yeah but you're going to utilize
it as well your your family computer so
so if you'd like to contribute to that
as a bit of a wedding gift to the the
happy couple head on over to donate dot
category-five dot TV and you can see
there there's an option to donate
specifically do that so a couple of
questions that have arisen since then
right that we never thought to bring up
and I'll explain why because some of the
technologies that I didn't bring up are
things that I
use in a desktop computer ever I thought
well we better ask you and the viewers
in the forum at cat 5 TV slash CPU 2017
wanted to know do you need Wi-Fi is your
computer going to be connected to
wireless how you currently connect your
well okay so I looked a little into it
right now we're connected into the like
the actual physical router like a cable
going into the computer
yes antastic pellit however okay so we
rent a basement apartment and we have
one router that connects like upstairs
and downstairs like we've all shared
share it with the whole house and right
now it's in our apartment but evidently
there's connection issues upstairs and
they wanted to move it upstairs so I've
been really encouraging that we don't do
that instead we get one of those things
that just like expands the you know
there's like you know talking about a
little computer yeah so I want to keep
it close so that we don't have to be
Wi-Fi the answer is yes ish yes could be
a predicament so Wi-Fi is not as
reliable and it's not as fast exactly so
you're gonna have issues with Wi-Fi so
we didn't put a Wi-Fi adapter in it we
didn't buy a motherboard that had
built-in Wi-Fi
we're gonna need it and I wanted to
suggest that if you do need Wi-Fi just
by a USB dongle because that way as
Wi-Fi technology evolves you can just
pull out that and plug a new one in
there cheap and it doesn't have to be
part of the build right I'm really
usually quite easygoing but I've very
much put my foot down and this whole
router movement thing so is there a
cable that goes from your router all the
way up to the apartment upstairs or are
they using Wi-Fi is it weird that I
don't know it's very strange strange
I wonder if they're using Wi-Fi they
probably are and it's not working it
having trouble if they want to reverse
that so you're the one having trouble so
I think you should have somebody in that
can run what's called a network drop an
Ethernet cable that goes up through the
walls or through the floor okay to the
router and then extends that to what's
called a switch so you have the router
and then a big long cable going down to
your apartment or vice versa and then a
switch on the other end which turns that
one cable into five ports right and you
can network them all together but keep
in mind even the way that you're doing
this the way that you have your computer
connecting to a network with the people
upstairs if they got a virus if they got
ransomware your computer is susceptible
oh okay because you're on the same
what's called a local area network it's
a computer network all of them can talk
to each other like your office all the
computers can access each other's files
and communicate with one another so
you're gonna be you're not going to be a
threat to them because you're installing
Linux on your computer mm-hmm
however they are a threat to you because
I would imagine that they probably have
Microsoft Windows and so if you have
files on your computer which you will
and if they are shared in such a way
that you can access them from your
laptop and you can access them from your
other devices well guess what so can
they
okay so your block that's the same
network you're connected to the very
same network okay and I'm guessing they
don't have the infrastructure to add a
second subnet with not not likely so so
understand the that that is the
susceptibility oh yeah you might want to
look into something else I don't know
yeah probably
do you concur absolutely all the time
[Laughter]
risk though okay and ransomware is the
biggest concern okay because they go out
through the network and look for other
computers and encrypt their files right
it wouldn't actually be like the
upstairs neighbor trying anything it
would be a ransom well it could be I
mean whatever if the Wi-Fi was open your
Wi-Fi reaches like two kilometers yeah
like a mile and so anyone who can
compromise the because I know it sounds
like you probably know a lot about your
setup and that you have in place
kostik yeah and so somebody within like
a a mile of that router could connect
into the Wi-Fi hypothetically and still
access things and all that cancer so
there's there's some condense acuity yes
okay
[Music]
