welcome back this is category five
technology TV and before the break we
were looking at the hc1 which I've now
plugged in right here and so I've simply
plugged in an ethernet cable and a power
cable that power cable is something that
you purchase at the same time from cat5
TV slash Odroid and that is a 5 volt 4
amp power supply right and it's
important to get the 4 amp because we're
gonna be powering not just the the
circuitry the the SOC or the single
board computer but also the SSD right or
you could have an a hard drive as well
like a spinning hard drive if it fits
it'll be like 1.5 millimeters thick or
is it 15 millimeters I don't know
millimeters in jeez 17 meters you know
but as long as it fits within 2.5 inch
enclosure then it's going to fit exactly
this device but I like to use an SSD I
find there these days they're gonna be
reliable mm-hmm
they are affordable now yeah Kingston
make exceptional SSD drives and it
generates no heat it uses virtually no
power Ryan so this device is basically
this is a solid-state device that I can
just put in my server room I can use it
at work I can use it at home I can put
it in the cellar I can put it I can just
tuck it in behind the TV and make it a
server and it's fine right like the
spinning ones they can if you move them
ah they're armed
yeah and damage the drive right the the
needle can we'll call it a needle but
the head can touch the platter because
there's a very very fine air cushion
between the platter and the head and so
it can cause damage where is these
things even with it powered on right now
I have no risks in moving it around or
whatever else they're very I feel like a
solid-state drive is like Sascha proof
like I can I wouldn't call it a proof
we'll call it Sascha resistant we're
okay yeah so I'll still stick with be
careful around it oh so I've plugged it
in and
and I want to remind you that you can't
plug this into a TV there's no HDMI
output there's no video capabilities
within this board whatsoever so that's
where differs from an X you for the X
you for has 4k HDMI output right this
does not this is just strictly treat it
like a server or in this case we're
gonna call it an ass unit but it's so
much more than that you think of an ass
as it's strictly storage network
attached storage right you can save
things to it you can copy things from it
and it's centralized storage and it's
handy it replaces the need for buying a
full size server for storing files and
sharing them within your network right
but this does that but it also has an 8
core computer running Debian Linux
stretch Debian 9 is what I've got on
there now of course I could upgrade it
to Buster if I wanted to go to Debian 10
it's available it's it's I think it's
frozen as well so you could do that if
you're you know and if you know what if
you don't know what I'm talking about
it's ok you don't need to do it but if
you do you you can do that and it will
operate so it's basically a full
computer yes but with the networking
capabilities and everything else so all
I've done is I've so with it with
Mavericks Debian stretch installed
mm-hmm flashed to the SD card I've
turned it on and now I see the IP
address when I check out my router
because remember that doesn't have a
screen so I need to be able to find how
do I access it right so I checked out my
router and my router shows the DHCP pool
and I can see the DHCP for it showed as
Debian stretch and it showed 10.0.0.0
had assigned to this device so now when
I jump over to a putty window on my
Windows 10 machine and type in that
address it's saying yeah it's found it
10.0.0.0 works I'm going to go 10 0 dot
0 dot 1 for 8
login as
and you're logging is route let's zoom
in here a little bit and I'm going to
move this window so that it it falls
right on your screen beauty a go so your
login is going to be root out of the box
your password is all lowercase
Oh droid just like you see on the box
well it's a little strange font but
Odroid ODR oh i d-- okay now I mean what
do you want to do let's do let's do apt
update okay just to kind of see how that
goes
now we see hey we've got a service
certificate verification failed we've
got a whole bunch of errors what gives
what yeah what gears what happened
I didn't plug in a real-time clock
battery oh we could you can plug in a
real-time clock battery I imagine that
there is a spot for it but my clock is
gonna be wrong right oh yeah yeah so
what I need to do is I need to set my
clock and I'm going to confirm that so
I'll jump back to this any time that you
get those ssh errors if you get like you
you're unable to run an apt update
you're unable to do an apt upgrade and
it's telling you that secure SSL
certificates are bad if you're going on
the internet from a device and it says
that the SSL certificates are bad first
thing you want to do is check your date
and time on your computer right with a
single-board computer it's especially
true because a lot of them don't have a
real-time clock battery built in some
don't even have a real time clock oh but
if you plug a battery into ones that do
support it then it will maintain that
time once you've said it right otherwise
you just want to keep it on a UPS so
that it doesn't lose the time or install
NTP or something like that so every time
it reboots it checks with the internet
servers and downloads the the time yes
but to do it quickly
first of all let's verify that that's
the problem I can just simply type date
and I see lo and behold it's November
3rd 2016 Wow so that is what my dad
thinks
so yeah I mean these are these this is a
board that I just unboxed right so it's
never been powered on and the system
clock thinks it's 2016 that's fine and
they didn't even exist back then I don't
think but let's figure out how to
actually set that time now you can go
through the hoops or you can use a tool
that I created which I call my Linux
time setting nerdgasm so if you head
over to bald nerd comm slash nerdgasm
'he's just like it sounds
and on my nerdgasm list you will find
set Linux time end date and all this
does is it makes it really really easy
for you to just hey cheese your time
zone and then it will give you two
commands one is one that will just set
your time right now or two is an
automated script that will actually
download the time in real time from my
server but the safest thing is just to
set the time so let's grab this command
and it's you'll notice that the clock is
actually ticking so it's it's real time
to when I hit copy and then jump over
here and right click to paste and it did
it so now you'll see having right
clicked and putty it pasted that command
that I copied from vault nerds nerd gasm
at bald nerd comm and now it's Wednesday
February 27th as we record this the real
time 2019 so now if I do app update
presumably it should work well yeah
that's the hope there you go no errors
that hahaha right so we know hey that's
all it was as my system clock was wrong
if I type date now I can see it is now
2019 now the system knows that it's 2019
that's good
apt upgrade you know you want to do your
typical Debian stuff upgrade your system
it says oh there are some automatically
installed packages that are not needed
so app dotto remove you can do some
cleanup do whatever you need to do
whatever we're not going to bother with
it tonight but it's Debian right the
Linux server you can you can do
everything that you need to do but what
we're gonna do here is we're gonna
actually create a BitTorrent seed server
it's going to have two effects for us
one
one it's going to allow us to download
full seasons of category-five technology
TV on a little device like this very
cool to it - yeah - yeah it's going to
allow us to then be part of that
community in sharing our download with
other people who are trying to download
it because that's what's really cool
about BitTorrent if if if I give you my
files then you can give it to the next
person and if ten people say to you oh I
want those files you say ok here I'll
give you a copy and I'll give you a copy
and I'll give you a copy
that's how BitTorrent works right now
you've heard BitTorrent and you thought
oh well isn't that illegal it has being
used the technology has been used in the
past for illegal purposes because it's
such a brilliant mechanism for
distribution right so you think about
hey how would it be best to distribute
illegal copies of movies bit tour that'd
be a great way to do that that's not
what we're doing what we are doing is
we're actually we're showing you that
you can do this with legitimate files
you can download Linux distributions you
can download MEMS Linux you can download
full seasons of category 5 technology TV
and other category 5 shows absolutely
free and store them on here so the first
thing that we need to do sash is we need
to actually make sure that the hard
drive is working because right now we
haven't actually done anything with the
SSD that we've connected right so let's
jump into our terminal and we're gonna
go LS slash dev slash
SD Star and I see that there is a SD
which is ace is that like an SATA drive
and there's one of them which obviously
is the case here so we know SD a1 is the
first partition on SDA the hard drive
the SSD I should say the Kingston Drive
right I installed there I can confirm
that I can go fdisk slash dev SDA and
then P and I can see there is an exFAT
filesystem there of 894 point three gigs
cool alright so I'm gonna just quit that
ctrl C is fine and I'm going to actually
format that because I don't want the X
fat
file system remember that as I format
something I'm wiping it right I know
that that drive is safe to wipe I don't
need to back up the files on it I'm
about to destroy everything so I'm going
to make file system dot ext3 I suppose I
could do the X T 4 X T 3 is fine slash
dev slash s da 1 now keep in mind when
you're creating a file system your
formatting on Linux you want to specify
the partition because it's the first
partition s da one not s da because
that's the drive if I format that I'm
not gonna be able to use it right you
have to use a partition so now I'm gonna
create that it contains an exFAT
filesystem are you sure yeah all right
discarding device blocks and presumably
reusing them for my Odroid hc1 so is it
flashing away it's just working away
operating that hard drive doing its
thing there we go wow did you guys think
that you were all going to be watching a
format operation on category 5 TV
tonight riveting I know I know it's just
awesome you wanted more Linux watch the
make FS screen folks and watch a discard
device block oh wow
look at that it's finished that was fast
that was super fast actually truth be
told we paused things and through the
magic of television we just kind of
expedited and jumped right back to it
but our drive is now formatted so this
is just kind of quick Linux tip it has
nothing really to do with the Odroid hc1
but hey we're learning Linux here as
much as anything else tonight
so we want to type BLK ID BLK ID shows
us the UUID of devices in our system and
we want to look for that SDA one see
that we have a UUID that is right there
that's what I want the reason that I
want that is I want to be able to mount
this thing automatically at boot time
right so I've got to create a folder to
mount it to we're going to call this our
mount
so let's jump into home slash no there
is no home folder because we are logged
in as root that's the only user we're
not gonna get in security practices here
I'm just gonna leave things as root for
today you probably want to create a
Linux user and all that kind of stuff I
don't want to get into that step of
things this this is running as root
which I don't like so for now just for
the sake of this keep in mind I want you
to create a user that will go into your
home folder instead but for today should
we just do it do it user ad I think dash
D Robbie no user had add user is it
invalid home directory nobody said yet
but it'll happen
oh the chat room will be okay user add
Robbie password Robbie and I'll give
myself a password I better know it
that'd be a real Sasha move you set up
my LastPass you forgot my password okay
so now user add dash D home Robbie you
know how do you create the directory
just Robbie invalid home directory
Robbie what okay well I'm just gonna I'm
just gonna cheat home make der home
Robbie as CH o na v : Ravi home Robbie
okay su - Robbie and now I'm Robbie hey
look at me Who am I
Robbie okay at least and you know I may
not know all the commands off the top of
my head but at least you know who you
are
at least I know who I am
teaching you semi-good Linux practices
in that I don't want you doing this is
route because that's stupid okay make a
directory here I'm Robbie now so make
der and and I will okay I'm just gonna
say this for the record I'm gonna post
below in the in the description the
correct command to create the home
folder the correct way as I'm creating
the user I'm just it's slip in my mind
and I just want to move on to the actual
demonstration here I'm going to call
this SSD alright so now I've got a
folder in well if I go in there you'll
see you'll see CD SSD PWD they got home
slash Robbie slash SSD so now I'm gonna
exit so I'm route again and then blk ID
I need to grab that UUID from dev slash
SDA one that's the SSD hard drive
understand what I'm doing because I'm
probably talking a bit of gibberish feel
free to just kick me under the table and
just say Robbie you're I I follow and I
catch little things and then my mind
goes like I want to be able to save
files to the SSD drive right otherwise
if I don't do these steps I'm not
actually utilizing the fact that this
has an SSD drive connected to the SATA
connector right the hard drive I so if I
do anything if I save any files or
anything else it's gonna save it to the
SD card which is 16 gigs SD cards are
not very reliable you don't want a lot
of input/output right so I want to step
away from that by telling it to use the
hard drive so the UUID is the unique
identifier of the hard drive partition
dev slash SDA one which we determined is
the SSDs first partition which we
formatted as ext3 so now I want to go
nan-oh
remember I'm rude again because I exited
Robbie nano slash et Cie /f s tab and
here I want to just type you know what I
can do is I can just grab that first
line ya know I'll type it UUID equals
and then I right-click because I'm in
putty but you need to pay some way that
you UID that I grabbed
and then hit tab slash home slash Robbie
slash SSD this is the mount point that
I've created so that's where I want it
to actually mount to and then the the
filesystem type is ext3 and then let's
just grab the same info as the first the
actual SSD here which I've just
highlighted and then pasted need a space
there what is it doing there
errors let's jump out boom errors
remount - ro means that it's going to
remount the drive as a read-only drive
if there is an error okay no a time
means it is not going to write the
access time as you access files that is
something that's good for SSDs SD cards
because every time you touch a file
every time you open a file it saves an
access time so that fills it up no no
but it uses it writes to it again
input/output there's a finite number of
input outputs all right so you're
decreasing the lifespan of the drive god
so no a time says it's gonna it's gonna
not do that and it's not going to wear
out the drive as quick discard I'm not
sure on 0 1 I can't remember the order
that's the order of scanning the drives
something anyway that's that's gonna do
it for us not a comprehensive
demonstration of using FS tab we do have
those though on our website category 5
TV and of course discord over on the
right-hand side of your screen it's
going to tell you a little bit control o
to save control X to exit and then mount
- a if all worked nothing happened
CD slash home slash Robbie LS / lah SSD
mount pipe grep SSD look at that s da1
is mounted on SSD so now if I go into
that folder
there's a lost-and-found if I touch a
file test LS there's tests now watch if
I unmount it you mount SSD now go back
into it
where'd everything go right cuz it's not
mounted because that is the drive the
SSD hard drive this SSD that's an
oxymoron but at the SSD drive right yeah
so now we have a place that we can save
things that is a solid-state drive now
we're cool I want to actually create a
server this gonna be quick don't worry I
know we're out of time we're way out of
time but this is gonna be quick we're
going to now take this system and we're
gonna turn it into a torrent server so
you go app now I already did app to
update but it's been a while so I'm
gonna opt update again because hey if
they update something in the serve in
the repositories I want it apt install
transmission
- Damon Damon Bock transmission is a
great tool for working with BitTorrent
typically it's a gtk application that
allows you to download bit torn in your
GUI ok but we're doing it without a head
without a monitor without X without any
there's no display you just want it
running as a server so now that we've
installed it we can just type system D
know systemctl start transmission -
daemon and there's no response because
it's it should presumably be working so
we know that we are at 192 oh no no
10.0.0.0 : 90 91 is gonna take me into
transmission but it says wait a minute
403 forbidden that's good because hey if
it wasn't installed correctly let's jump
on to ninety ninety we'd see that it
just spins and then it says this site
can't be reached well no it is reached
it's just rejecting us why is it
rejecting us unauthorized IP address how
cool is that so it actually has security
in place that says we
allow anyone to access our bit torn
server unless they are authenticated by
IP address right I'm on the internal
land so I'm gonna actually set that up
right now by figuring out my IP address
so my laptop and jump into my terminal
I'm on Windows 10
IP config all Wow lots that hyper-v and
everything else let's jump up here huh
10 dot 0 dot 0 dot
now first thing I need to do is System
CTL stop transmission - daemon do that
do not forget to stop the daemon because
if you make any changes to the
configuration yeah they will not be
saved because the daemon is running and
it has the configuration loaded
you have to stop the daemon first then
nano etc' slash transmission dame -
Damon I suppose slash and there should
be a file called settings Jason there we
go
now if we scroll down a little ways
we're gonna see and it shows you here
what we're actually looking for RPC -
whitelist
so go down to our PC - whitelist our PC
port our PC password username whitelist
our PC whitelist local host is enabled
but my IP is not so I'm just gonna go
comma 10.0.0.0
fantastic again ctrl o to save ctrl X to
exit now start the name in the game
systemctl start transmission daemon now
if i refresh did I get the IP right yes
nice it's asking me for a username and
password username transmission password
transmission enter now we have an up and
running BitTorrent client server for
seeding for downloading everything we
can set it up to save to that SSD but we
need to do that again
in this configuration so let's stop and
let's go back to editing that settings
Jason file and let's see where it's
actually saving to downloads dear it's
going into vara lib transmission daemon
downloads let's change that home Robby
SSD let's call this torrents okay
alright now I need to make derp home
Robby SSD torrents remember it is
mounted right now CH own - our Robby
Robby I presume is gonna be ok
home Robby SSD torrents I wonder if
there's a transmission group or user
groups or a transmission well let's try
it anyways so okay so start now that
I've set the folder and I've given it
ownership by Robby mm-hmm
now let's refresh okay so now head on
over to torrent doc category 5 TV and
let's grab say season 11
just copy link address and then open
that in your new server enter the URL
there you go destination folder look at
that cool Ord it automatically start
when added upload ok let's see if it
works I'm gonna jump back to my terminal
LS ok LS torrents nothing there nothing
there so oh it's coming
is it no error permission denied ah
permission denied because Robbie is not
the user who is running transmission gtk
so I'm going to do a really really quick
search here let's jump up here
no it's Debian transmission there we go
let's try that okay one of the things
that I want to do here is I want to try
to give you good security practices I'm
not genius at it but I know that like
we're not going to give it seven seven
seven permissions that's that's nonsense
that's very very dangerous don't ever do
that if someone tells you yes it will
work but we're not going to do that yeah
so what I just did is I looked at the
original file LS VAR Lib transmission
daemon /downloads and I did - lah and I
see it was actually owned by Debian -
transmission so I'm gonna try that CH
owned - our Debian - transmission :
Debian - transmission home Robby
in my case SSD torrents I call that
there we go so now if I do
systemctl restart trans miss shown
- Damon what did I spell around
transmission that I might need an S in
there there we go okay so now it's
restarted let's jump back to
transmission here refresh right click
and try resume okay I'm just gonna
remove it Oh No is it going No okay I'm
gonna remove that remove and I'm gonna
try again now that I've set the correct
permissions that's key folks because
what I did there understand from a Linux
perspective I set the permissions of the
folder as Robbie but transmission
doesn't have the ability to write to
anything that's owned by Robbie
okay let's hope work now let's see it's
gonna go and if I jump back here and I
look in torrents it should create a
folder automatically if everything
worked out oh oh
okay it got a little bit of data there
you go watch LS torrents it's got it
category five technology TVC 11 so if I
go in there look at that
there comes season 11 and it is storing
on my SSD right UT how lovely is that so
here comes folks downloading a 520
kilobits kilobytes per second nice and
now once it's downloaded it I become
what's called a seed so now anyone else
who wants to download it can share the
downloading from my server which is
right there on a no droid hc1 incredible
it's such a good concept this thing is
so cool I'm just showing you one little
thing that you can do with an H see one
of course it can be whatever as an ass
just set up samba and you've got an
in-house way to share your files from an
SSD you learned a lot tonight hopefully
we were able to follow if you have any
questions do send us an email or join us
on discord head on over to our website
category-five TV there are lots of ways
to interact with us but check out the
hc1 you can get one a cat5 TV slash
Odroid per I am in love with that device
I can't wait to fire it up and just
leave it running ah that's gonna be a
nice little torrent cedar for
category-five very cool
[Applause]
[Music]
