welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 435 for tuesday the 19th
of january 2016 nice to see you i'm robi
your host aka the guy off in camera
tonight so mad skills folks up in the
sound board over here so if I kind of
stretch over here say hello to Shelly hi
nice to be back mangafox 70 is also here
in the studio and she's just keeping
tabs on the chat room making sure
there's nobody causing any grief yep you
don't want to have to want have to put
our foot down do we yeah I'll be here as
well any questions she's here coming hmm
hey shel what do we got coming up well
tonight we're celebrating 20 years of a
GNU image manipulation program by
continuing our 20 week of GIMP tip
series and tonight we're actually
looking at the interface let's go that's
a good one we've had some questions
coming about it I can't wait you've been
looking for a linux distribution to help
your windows using friends make the
switch and we just might have the one so
you want to stick around and find out
what we're on about here is what's
coming up in the category five dot TV
news room as well tonight AT&amp;T is moving
away from proprietary systems and
stepping toward canonical limited's open
source system boon to a las vegas-based
casino operator has sued security firm
Trustwave for conducting a woefully
inadequate forensics investigation also
Twitter's outage this morning comes at a
pretty bad time because their shares are
continuing to fall we're going to find
out a little more about that Microsoft
is no longer going to allow users to
update windows less than Windows 10 if
they have a next-generation CPU and
finally Netflix is soon going to block
proxy access to its contents stick
around the full details and more are
coming up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV
starring
Sasha dramatis
Hillary rumble
Eric kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
this is category 5 technology TV welcome
to the show I'm Robbie Ferguson I'm
Kelly nice me hey Shelly how you been
good yeah new I just said nice to meet
you too everyone out there watching and
they're like boo urs you already know us
yeah I could see everybody here without
further ado all right we're as Linux
user myself as a linux user yourself
you've been looking for a distribution
that might help turn mom and dad grandma
grandpa to linux and many many moons ago
it's hard to believe but nearly nine
years ago two brothers set out to make
it easier for people to make that switch
from mac OS to linux from Windows to
Linux today these two entrepreneurs made
a big announcement they've got the beta
version of sauron OS 11 is immediately
available so please help me welcome RT
on Zoran RT on is the co-founder of the
zoren group they are the group that
actually created Zorin OS Artyom nice to
see you hi everyone thanks for being
here Artyom we're going to get right
into it let's talk a little bit about
Zorin OS how you and in fact your
brother founded this basically a
spectacular linux distribution for
people who are trying to make that
switch to linux can you tell us a little
bit about the history of you know how
did this come about what what started
this whole thing so the origins of Zorn
West date all the way back to the summer
of two thousand eight that was when my
brother Carol and I first tried out
Linux we had a disco of ubuntu 8.04 and
we loaded it up and from the really very
first minute we loved it we felt really
empowered but open source software there
we felt like we could do anything that
we wanted in linux and also back then we
were kind of kids so we really like the
whole desktop effects and comp is there
the desktop cube was really big hey come
on I still love that and dude yeah and
we still have an ins or no ass you do
still have that oh boy oh yeah I don't
want to get too technical with our inner
tonight because obviously zorno ask is
one of the probably one of the best
linux distros for anyone who's who's a
beginner linux user but not to get too
technical how did you pull that off are
you using matei are you using are used
to do you still have comp is yeah we
have the compass window manager and grab
we're using the genome three libraries
so we have all the advantages of all the
latest linux software out there so we
have the most powerful user experience
well you still have all the great eye
candy and phone features we'll call it
that I productivity and usability with
compass being something that really
impressed you at the time that you were
just getting into Linux it's it's neat
to see that you're kind of staying true
to your roots and and and keeping that
dream alive because it's it's getting
harder and harder to find a distribution
that has it so really what was the
inspiration behind horn OS and and the
massive amount of man hours that must
have been involved in even just
releasing that first version yeah yes so
soon after we tried ubuntu we showed it
to her dad who is just a regular windows
user yeah and the problems of linux
became apparent and it was not really
that user friendly and since different
parts of the interface were in different
places it was difficult to get over that
learning curve and we saw that that was
a huge limiting factor to the success of
linux on the desktop but we knew that
there were ways to get around this and
we wanted to solve this problem once and
for all so nine months after that date
we released Zorn Wes one and well the
rest was history really that's awesome
who is it at this point who is or no s4
in your eyes as one of the co developers
of the product was or noise has really
expanded outwards from our original
vision and now we see it as an operating
system for people who want to take the
vantage of Linux and it's powerful
features but you want a really really
nice user experience so it feels really
great to use you can get using right
away without having to learn anything
and it's just a breeze to use really now
I was on your website and I see you
you're still using kind of the Mander
Eva pricing model for the product Zorin
OS of course is a free version of Linux
it's a Linux you know you can download
it you can get the iso you can burn it
to a DVD or to your USB flash drive and
install it but you're still offering a
business and an ultimate version can you
explain to our viewers who are probably
going to you know some of them are going
to go to your website for the first time
tonight having seen this interview and
and wonder what what's the advantage to
me and what is the you know there's kind
of two questions here what's the money
going toward if I were to purchase one
of these it's like nine is a nine euros
basically it's cheap yeah and when you
go in 10 euros what are what are the
advantages to me as a user why would I
want to go with one of those commercial
or are those paid products instead of
the free one so in the free version we
have all the standard and essential
features that you want in a desktop
experience but when you step up to the
premium edition so for example the
business edition we include a lot of
software out of the box that will help
you run your business and you can get
using all the features of Zorn wise on
top of all those extra features right
away and if you step up to the ultimate
version we've got all the best linux
software available as well as exclusive
features in our premium additions like
the expanded look changer which allows
you to switch the desktop environment so
that it looks like a Mac experience or
bun to unity night right in one click
that's one of the things I wanted to
raise is your look changer it's a real
unique feature of Zorin OS and for those
who aren't familiar with it what it what
it basically is I mean we're talking
about a distribution of linux that makes
it easy
for me to transition from say Windows to
Linux so you know that that dialogue
keeps popping up do you want to upgrade
to Windows 10 maybe you're not really
interested in that maybe you want to try
something different so coming from
windows 7 I can use your look changer
and basically make linux look and feel a
lot like Windows 7 so that's that's a
pretty fantastic job that you've done
with that I think that helps people to
transition and that's one of the things
that makes Zorin OS stand out as a very
good alternative for those who are
starting up with linux i've been using
linux for years probably about nine
years longer than yourself artyom and
even myself at that point i love Zorin
OS i love still having compiz effects
and being able to use that the old
school linux user and me love some of
those kinds of features and then moving
forward as you say gnome 3 and some of
the more advanced features that come
with that vers versus Matteo or gnome 2
so you've done a fantastic job of kind
of keeping up with the technology while
still giving us something that us power
users are still interested in so with
Zorin OS your target is is kind of grown
it's grown from mom and pop and and
people that are just learning linux to
users like myself who have been you had
for many years so that's quite a feat
that you've had there okay well Zorin OS
is consistently one of the top 20 linux
distributions on distrel watch and
currently I believe sitting at about
number 16 in the world so from hundreds
of linux distributions were consistently
in the top 20 and tonight we are talking
with the co-founder of the zoren group
which makes the zoren OS it's he's
Artyom Zoran and a pleasure to have you
here
we're going to happen to you real quick
break but when we get back we're going
to talk about the beta release of the
zora and os 11 the next generation of
this intuitive linux distro stick around
welcome back this is category 5
technology TV i'm your host Robbie
Ferguson hi I'm Shelly Shelly tonight
we're talking to Artyom Zoran and you
may recognize his last name Zorin OS is
one of the top 20 linux distributions on
distrel watch today and is consistently
ranking in the top 20 one of the things
to me that sets Zorin OS apart from a
lot of the other Linux distributions is
that they put a very solid and very
effective effort into creating a
distribution that is accessible for
those who have never used Linux so if
you're coming from a Windows background
or if you've got a loved one who's
coming from say Microsoft Windows or
even OS 10 you're going to be able to
make that transition to Linux a lot more
simply thanks to the Zorin OS look
changer that allows you to create a look
and feel that gives you that familiarity
so that you can use your Linux
distribution in such a way that it's
familiar to you so without further ado
we are joined by Artyom Zoran welcome
back so today is a big day for horn OS
as we step into a new era with Zorin OS
version 11 can tell us a little bit
about the beta what what today's release
means for Zorin OS as a distribution so
in zorn wats 11 we really focused on
enhancing the user experience even
further so from the get-go we've
introduced a few new programs that make
it easier for you to get more done for
example there's the new contacts up
there's also the clock utility that
allows you to do things such as check
the time in other parts of the world and
use a stopwatch simple features but that
make the user experience a lot better
very cool now this distribution Zorin OS
11 what really makes it different beyond
those the the suite of applications what
makes it a lot different from say
version 10 which is coming to end of
support in Zorin OS 11 we've also
introduced loads of enhanced features
all over the
really from updated applications to you
colonel so performance is better than
ever artwork has improved so looks
really great this time around and even
more so than before I think we'll have a
really great user experience we're
learning today about Microsoft's
announcement that they're no longer
going to be supporting next-generation
processors on older older versions of
Windows and with Zorin OS running newer
kernels we're going to see a lot more
support for those next-generation
processors I think as well which makes a
big difference if you're thinking about
making that transition because yours may
be your system is no longer supported by
windows what a next generation processor
anyways that's neither here nor there
we're speaking with Artyom Zoran he's
one of the co-creators of sauron OS how
stable would you say is the the beta
release right now I mean it was just
announced this morning it's big news for
the Zorin OS community of fans and users
is it ready for us to start putting on
to a system and playing with or what's
what state do you think it's in right
now well betas are never really perfect
for production systems however that
being said and we've looked at the
feedback so far from all of our users
and it's been the most stable beta
release of anything in recent history
pres or no s so I'm actually using it
right now on my computer and it's
working perfectly flawlessly do we have
an approximate ETA on when the the final
release will be available we expect to
have available within the next week or
two oh it's that soon oh that's
fantastic okay so if I download and
install the beta right now on my system
get the feel of it start to you know
figure out how I want it set up is there
an upgrade path that's going to take me
right to that stable release or should I
really wait until that ISIL is available
if i'm a new user well in recent
versions we've been able to upgrade our
beta and release
translate users up to the final version
so as soon as you install the beta
release and when the new full release
comes out you should have a fully
working fully stable so unless 11 on
your computer great Zorin OS 10 as i
mentioned a little bit earlier in the
interview it has basically reached end
of support I believe is that correct
it's reaching end of support on februari
to fourth ok so it's coming up on us
very very soon makes me wonder you know
just curious what are your support
cycles like and if i were to install
Zorin OS 11 about how long do I have
before I need to upgrade to the next
version what kind of support since sir
OS is based on the most recent versions
of Ubuntu we follow the same updates
schedule as then ok so support will end
in around at the end of summer so for
releases like John West 10 and 11 which
are based on the non LTS ubuntu releases
add they'll be supported and same
capacity as those 90s people so Lee's is
your upgrade path at that point so when
you say end of support is end of summer
will I be able to upgrade to the next
version as easily as as the update from
beta 2 2 final well in the next release
we're planning a whole heap of sweeping
changes yeah so in that regard and we
expect have it available as a clean
install of grey ok ok and is that
something that's going to change I know
you know some users will will wonder
about having to reinstall their
distribution every say six months or so
is that something that is is in the plan
so that it will be upgradeable on an
automated basis because you use app
right it's based on ubuntu which is
based on debian and so your upgrade path
can be pretty seamless yeah that's true
however taking into regards
ubuntu's upgrade path it's usually been
an experience where after the upgrade
you might get some breaking changes that
might cause your computer to run a bit
worse than your force so we've decided
to make it as a clean install upgrade up
to now and we expect that to change in
giorno s12 in the summer as ubuntu and
the linux ecosystem has really matured
pretty recently interesting ok and the
upgrade path on Linux anyways I mean if
I had to do a full reinstall I can just
back up my home folder essentially
reinstall the distribution and drop my
home folder back and most things are
back in place just with the new versions
of software which is fantastic that's
the the architecture of Linux itself
where at this point i mean the beta has
been released where can i go and grab
that I so so you can go to Zoar and os
com slash beta HTML or you can look in
our blog and see all the newest updates
and new features in join Wes 11
fantastic we're speaking with Artyom
Zoran thank you so much for being here
tonight do we have some questions that
have come into the chat room ah yeah all
right good guy 98 asking is there an LTS
version of Zoran yes as your OS 9 is
available to download right now it's
based on ubuntu 14.04 and it will be
supported on till 2018 great and so i
presume then now for those who are not
familiar with the term LTS that means
long term support so when we say that
you know the the current version version
11 is going to be supported up until the
end of the summer that means that you
can then upgrade to the next version LTS
means that it will kind of have rolling
support on an ongoing basis for much
longer so then that raises the question
is so you're following the Ubuntu model
that means when their next LTS comes out
does a new version of Zorn come out that
is equally long term support exactly
that's how we do it so the normal
release is we usually make them
just to give the more advanced and more
eager users access to the most latest
technology well we also have the LTS
versions that are more suited towards
large deployments and enterprises and to
make sure they have a fully robust and
tested system on their computers
fantastic RT on it's such a pleasure to
have you here I know it was short notice
and a very very busy day for you and and
your brother the Zorin OS team we're
looking forward to some great things
from you and and from this this version
of the distro and everything is to come
and thanks for being here with us
tonight thank you very much for having
me make sure you check out Zorin OS and
if you'd like to try the beta you can
get it at Soren OS com /b ETA dot HTML
and definitely check that out let us
know what you think and we'll be showing
you how that works on an upcoming show
here on category 5 as as our Dion was
telling us it's going to be stable very
very soon this is category 5 technology
TV welcome to the show and thanks for
being here tonight Shelley you were
saying at the top of the show that we
have we're gonna be looking at the GIMP
a little bit more we're going to look at
the user face or user interface user
interface on the game yeah I want to get
into that because sometimes we
accidentally closed the wrong thing and
then weird weird my tool box go so we're
going to be taking a look at that in
just a couple of minutes time in the
meantime through the magic of television
we're going to jump over to the category
5 TV news room it's Tuesday January the
16 2016 I'm Ravi Ferguson here the top
store
category 5 TV news this week AT&amp;T has
chosen Canonical's ubuntu operating
system to power its systems and a new
partnership between the two companies
raises some interesting possibilities
for the future of the linux OS who's
responsible if your company is
compromised by credit card thieves and
then after the malware is removed their
compromised yet again we'll take a look
at how one Vegas casino is suing the
company they hired to perform forensics
after they were assured the attack was
contained a Twitter outage today comes
at a pretty bad time for the company as
their shares continue to fall hitting an
all-time low this morning Microsoft will
no longer allow users to update Windows
versions less than Windows 10 on
next-generation hardware yeah you heard
me right we're not talking about old
hardware we're talking about if you buy
new hardware they are going to be
cutting off support stick around we'll
tell you what's up also netflix is is
soon going to block proxy access to its
content these stories are coming up in
the category five dot TV newsrooms stick
around you've got mad skills now hone
them learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / linda
hi Robbie Ferguson here are the top
stories the recovering from the category
5 TV news room this week ATT is moving
away from their proprietary systems and
source operating system ubuntu canonical
announced the news in a blog post saying
it's joining forces with AT&amp;T to provide
its Ubuntu OS and engineering support
for the carrier's cloud network and
enterprise applications now the
company's disclosed that the partnership
is significant in coming up with the
Ubuntu based apps across the internal
and external systems at AT&amp;T John's anos
Canonical's vice president of cloud
alliances and business development
believes that the collaboration with
AT&amp;T quote provides the opportunity to
innovate with AT&amp;T around the next
generation of the software centric
network and cloud solutions Zeno's also
said that teaming up with one of the
leading carriers in the United States
would enable the company to bring its
expertise on a boon to cloud and open
source to AT&amp;T meanwhile the wall street
journal reports that Canonical's new
relationship with ATT could in fact
allow it to pursue its plan to build the
Ubuntu powered smartphone that could
come packed with desktop grade apps the
phone could also be connected to
keyboards and large displays a las
vegas-based casino operator has sued
security firm Trustwave for conducting
an allegedly woefully inadequate
forensics investigation that missed key
details of a network breach and allowed
credit card thieves to maintain their
foothold during the course of the two
and a half month investigation in a
legal complaint filed in federal court
in Las Vegas affinity gaming said it
hired Trustwave in October 2013 to
investigate and contain a network breach
that allowed attackers to obtain
customers credit card data in
mid-january 2014 Trustwave submitted a
report required under payment card
industry security rules on all merchants
who accept credit cards in the PCI
forensics report Trustwave said it had
identified the source of the data breach
and had contained the malware
responsible for it what
more than a year later after affinity
was hit by a second credit card breach
the casino operator allegedly learned
from Trustwave competitor mandiant that
the malware had never been fully removed
trustwave had said that the last breach
activity occurred in october 2013
Mandiant's later PCI forensics report by
contrast said that it happened again in
December of that year while trustwave
was in fact investigating the report
also noted that the breach occurred on a
continuous basis both before and after
Trustwave claimed that the data breach
had been contained trustwave allegedly
failed to detect several pieces of
malware infecting network servers or
that the breach was ultimately the
result of people who were able to access
affinities virtual private network and
install backdoor software here's a quote
Mandiant's report also concluded that
the various recommendations trustwave
had presented to improve affinity
gaming's data security were pointless
the complaint alleged and the quote
continues none addressed the source of
the data breach and none would have
prevented the attacker from again
accessing affinity gaming's data systems
for instance through the back doors the
trustwave failed to find and close
frightening stuff a little bit of
insight into some of the the forensics
and the trouble that goes on behind the
scenes when you hear about these data
breaches and credit cards being stolen
and things like that you don't really
realize well companies are putting it
all on the line to say yeah we fixed it
and then to find out that actually they
still have ways in I'd be a little
devastating I think for any company some
Twitter users had to do without early
today after sporadic outages knocked out
the social media site in the US and
Europe as well as Canada incidentally I
know I had trouble this morning reports
of malfunctions began to appear in the
US but it was unclear how widespread the
outages were this morning by mid-morning
on the East Coast desktop and mobile
versions of Twitter appeared to be
working
although the company wouldn't say if
they were back to normal a company smoke
spokeswoman also wouldn't reveal any
details as to the possible cause of the
outage declining to comment beyond
Twitter's tweeted statement Twitter Inc
which has 320 million active users
tweeted that it is aware of the issue
and is trying to fix it Twitter's mobile
app was partially functioning for some
users but its timeline update and new
tweets were sporadic third-party
services such as tweetdeck HootSuite
those services were also encountering
errors the outages come at a very bad
time for Twitter and its executives as
they're trying to convince Wall Street
that they can deliver bigger revenue and
profits meanwhile the company's stock
continues to languish at an all-time low
twitter shares have lost 66 percent of
their values since peaking at 52 dollars
and eighty-seven cents in april in
morning trading today twitter shares
fell another 35 cents to just seventeen
dollars and 59 cents if you own a system
with an intel 6th generation processor
that's the skylake processor for example
and if you run Windows 7 or Windows 8.1
you're gonna have to think about
upgrading to Windows 10 or Linux you've
got 18 months to do so microsoft
announced on friday that after july
seventeenth 2017 my birthday happy
birthday from microsoft while they're
going to actually while they're saying
on that date only the most critical
security fixes will be released for
those platforms Windows 7 Windows 8.1
and those fixes will only be made
available if they don't risk the
reliability or compatibility of windows
seven or eight point one on other non
skylake systems the full range of
compatibility and security fixes will be
published for non sky like machines for
windows 7 until january fourteenth 2020
and for Windows 8.1 until January 10th
2023 as far as Microsoft's concerned
next-generation processors will only be
supported by windows 10 going forward
the company said that using the latest
generation processors will always
require the latest generation operating
system and
so along that vein allow me to introduce
you to Linux there's the bias hmm
subscribers of the video streaming
service provider Netflix will no longer
be able to use proxies to watch content
not available in their home country
subscribers often resort to these
proxies or servers that facilitate
access to Internet content not normally
available locally to watch Netflix is
popular shows the company said that it
would clamp down on these proxies or
unblock errs in a few weeks it's not all
bad news though Netflix is vice
president of content delivery
architecture wrote in a blog that their
goal is in fact to provide the content
in more countries rather than users
needing to utilize third-party proxies
the announcement comes just a week after
Netflix went live in more than 130
countries covering almost the entire
globe except China Netflix said that not
all of its shows would be available
immediately to subscribers in certain
countries but that it was working toward
resolving that however there's no word
yet about their intent to bring non
Netflix programming such as blockbuster
movies to other countries a Netflix
spokesman told Reuters ultimately this
is a quote the aim is to provide a
service around the world that is more
similar than not using VPNs or proxies
to virtually cross borders violates
Netflix's terms of use because of
licensing restrictions on TV shows and
movies comes down to copyrights doesn't
it India Nigeria Russia and Saudi Arabia
were among the 130 countries where the
service was launched last week big
thanks this week to roy roy w nash and
our community of viewers hey if you've
got a story you'd like to submit to the
category 5 TV news room if you want to
hear your name on the air please email
us newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room I'm Robbie
Ferguson wow that was amazing this is
category 5 technology TV I mean not not
the read but the
whoo magic of television right I'm here
I'm there I'm everywhere now this is
category 5 technology TV welcome to the
show it's episode number 435 hard to
believe we're here welcome to studio D
Shelly de Silva hello Robbie Ferguson
yeah nice to see you as always I'm here
every week and always a pleasure I want
to remind you hey it's time to show your
love for category 5 TV if you want a
Dini drone or 2 i'd love to send you two
of these here we go watch your eyes I
don't have a camera guy keep your hands
at the level of your eyes oh these
things are a boatload of fun not gonna
get into it too much but we want to give
away two of these to the same person
we're doing a draw we need a hundred
people to support us on patreon how much
does it cost what if I sent 25 cents
minimum what yeah I mean started about a
quarter yeah and then you're gonna
qualify for that 25 cents in episode if
category 5 TV and our network of shows
is worth that to you please head on over
to patreon.com category 5 it's a really
cool way to support category 5 the
network not just our show but the other
show the whole thing everything that we
do and that money goes directly into
helping us to pay the bills keep things
going and to to make us strong as well
as we as we plan to upgrade and some of
you may have already noticed that there
have been some upgrades this week and it
hasn't been without peril okay so we're
now on Windows 10 over here and Windows
Windows is required for a broadcast say
we use Wirecast and you can check it out
a cap five dot TV / Wirecast fantastic
software works great I can't show it
because and I will but Windows 10 won't
let me show that screen and we had one
of our cameras didn't work on Windows 10
a bulky and we've been trying to figure
out why there's been this popping sound
in the audio and you know that that's
been annoying some of you and we've been
working on that so I had hoped that the
upgrade the windows 10 would help solve
solve that and unfortunately it didn't
so we're going to keep on working on
that now if you noticed tonight that
maybe it's a little better that's
because what I've been doing is between
segments I've been stopping and
restarting the recorder and hoping that
that's going to make a difference so
we'll see after the fact so hopefully
that does make the difference and maybe
that's how I have to do it I'm fine with
that Shelley what are we a member of we
are a member of the tech podcast network
if it's tech is here cat5 TV / tpn and
the international association of the
internet broadcasters we our cat five TV
/ IA ib thanks shell so we're going to
take a look at the GIMP yes the GNU
image manipulation for love our free
software we love it here at category 5
TV I'm going to just bring it up it's on
my system it's under graphics GNU image
manipulation program isn't Linux
organized look at that do you notice
that there's not a whole bunch of cruft
you don't see a whole bunch of what's
Creed cruft is like extra bloat oh so
it's like there's my software just give
me the software right I don't need all
that extra uninstalls and stuff like
that and it was we talked about Zorin OS
and yeah you can run a distribution
Linux is more organized i'm not running
Zorin OS yet on this machine this is pc
pardon me this is point when X but it's
an older version and and I've held on to
that older version like this because
it's got comp is and and I and I kind of
hinted to it but I've got all these
kinds of things and why does that matter
to us because we're guess we've got a
lot going on we need yeah I do actually
go like this i mean i have the interview
on one there's the news on one screen
and i'm able to do that so it is a
productivity thing however it's also so
that those of you now that you're
watching this on a 55 inch flat screen
and so you're like everything's huge
Bobby's head is like three feet tall 55
inch
but here's the thing sometimes we bring
up text or something yeah a terminal
window and somebody's watching this on
their phone yep their smartphone so we
got to think about that and so that's
where compiz allows us to do that right
Island yeah so I can you know I'm boom
so that is one of the key reasons why
compiz is important to us so I was
pleased to hear that Zorin OS has that
still so not to get sidetracked but okay
accessories graphics GNU image
manipulation program now we we always
get a lot of great questions and i love
the questions that you send in to us and
it helps us to understand you know what
what are what are the things that our
viewers are going through and what are
you encountering and we've been showing
the GNU image manipulation program for
now this is the ninth week and through
the course of that one of the things
that I didn't really think of because I
forget okay i've been using this thing
for years and i forget that when i first
got it I click the wrong stuff yeah oh
yeah so you know you're used to a
windows program where okay I want to
close the GIMP but it's all these
different windows so okay so I'm unlit
in my way of thinking so the thing on
the left has an X i'm probably going to
click that well gimp didn't close just
that toolbar did or what if i click the
X on this one oh now weird my toolbar go
and then I click that one and now I'm
just left with this silly little canvas
and I can't do anything with it so this
is GNU image manipulation program tips
looking tips week number nine tonight we
are looking the GIMP trips this is week
nine and tonight we are looking at the
user interface if you've got yourself
stuck in this kind of a rut well you may
be lost you may find that hey if I
right-click I get all those things back
but it's a little bit confusing what we
can do is look under windows and there
are two things you want to look at first
of all recently closed Docs is going to
show you ones that you maybe just
accidentally hit just a moment ago
oh so it's kind of handy it's like a
little memory bar and it's kind of it's
like an undo oh oh I accidentally hit
clothes so I can click on that one under
recently closed docks and hit it and it
brings back well it brought back one of
my panels that's pretty great died yeah
so that's cool I still don't now that's
layers so I still don't have my my
toolbar my toolbox so let's go into
windows and then if we go dockable
dialogues you'll see various different
things that are available here from
layers two channels two paths all the
colors russia's like if you want you
know your brushes daya like oh it's
already part of this one but what we
really want is that toolbar back where
does Robbie point you when we need to
use the marquee it's the toolbar what
happens when you closed it well now you
are messed up alright so I'm going to go
windows and then I can go new toolbox
and with my new toolbox oh that looks
crazy look at what we found is if you
grab one of the sides you can drag it
and resize this bad boy nuts crazy I
mean pretty pretty customizable a and so
then I position it wow that was a really
tall dialogue let's see how oh there we
go okay so now everything is dockable so
if I right click now and go windows
dockable dialogues tool options now I
get that tool options window oh is that
there before it was but I want it to be
a part of my toolbox okay so you'll see
if i drag it it just is a it's it's own
window I can move it around the screen
but if I grab the actual kind of tab
looking thing here where it says tool
options and drag that bit now I'm
actually dragging the tool as a dockable
dialogue and I can drop it there I could
drop it over here anywhere that there's
a dock area I can place it there
that's typically how I have mine set up
or I may have this one over on the left
and this one over on the right that's
more typical of me because again i kind
of think in a linear sense I don't know
if it's maybe my years of Photoshop use
that makes me put the layers on the
right hand side just two layers on her
right and then yeah and tools are on my
left so it is kind of a Photoshop
mentality isn't it and so this is my
layers toolbox this is my canvas and
these are my tools so now you can see
I've added the tool options now I've got
kind of everything that I want so if I
click on my mark ii now I have the
options for marquee and it lets me do
all that so play around look through
your dockable dialogues and see which
ones you like which ones you like to
have always available to you and it can
be it can be quite handy once you learn
how to do that and certainly if you
accidentally closed something it's good
to be able to reopen it oh yeah so then
the Windows or Mac using user comes to
us and says I'm so used to photoshop I
can't get over the fact that this thing
is three different windows it works I'll
just say it works fantastic when you
have multiple displays multiple monitors
so at my office for example when I have
gimp up I have my canvas this guy up
full screen on yeah I have three months
i have three monitors so then what I
actually do is I take these two together
and I move them to the monitor that is
to my right so all of my tools all of my
layers are over here whereas my canvas
is right smack in front of me and that
is a really good production environment
for me and and works yes yeah and and it
gives me the most screen real estate to
work with for my canvas which is
important to me if screen real estate
isn't as big of an issue to you and
you're more interested in hey I really
want that Photoshop feel because I'm
just used to it maybe you're
transitioning maybe you are going to get
to the point where you can use multiple
windows but for now you want to try
something that's a little more familiar
to you
there is a single window mode and if we
go to windows you'll see single window
mode as an option watch what happens
instantly when I click on this koplow
boom now the GIMP the GNU image
manipulation program looks a lot more
like say Photoshop right if I maximize
it here's my canvas in the middle let's
create a new file just so that it makes
it a little more apparent there's my
canvas right here's my layers over on
the right hand side and here are my
tools and my tool options vary Photoshop
ii-if Photoshop e is a verb we'll make
it a verb it's a verb now folks more of
an illustrator user so everything is
backwards is it yeah boy hey you could
get a mirror or you can move things
earlier that would feel I feel very
stressed you work in vector yeah yeah
most of the time that's cool so where
this is different and like Photoshop
GIMP is yeah it's pixel or raster I
guess it's called so when you draw
something you are drawing as if you were
painting with a brush as opposed to
vector where it's something that I in
fact yeah any size you want yeah still
be the same Christmas where when you're
working with raster it's if you have an
image that's this big and you blow it up
to this big that's where you get
pixilation but unless you change your
dpi then even still though it's still
gonna stretch pixels as long as you
create already hundred yeah but if you
are working with a 150 dpi dots per inch
and then you change it to 300 and
stretch it it's still gonna pixel a very
bad but the difference really is that
vector is I guess artwork versus raster
gimp Photoshop our photos would that be
an accurate statement yeah if you yeah I
guess though like what would you create
in a vector file a logo a logo so
graphics yeah artwork so I do a lot of
we call the gradations I think we did on
here one time do you have gradients yeah
so going from one color smoothly into
another color you can do that in vector
so if you're interested in vector
artwork than another product that you
might look at is inkscape which is a
free version now so we're GIMP is a free
version of say Photoshop or a free
alternative I should say inkscape is a
free alternative to what's the program
that you're using Adobe Illustrator
adobe illustrator so fairly similar in
its functionality that way so orc
Express has come in the same thing yes
illustrator but a game a commercial
application inkscape inkscape yeah so
check that out but primarily there you
have it as far as the GIMP goes we've
got this single window mode and we've
recovered our our toolbars that were
accidentally closed and that can
definitely happen to you I hope that
that's helped you out tonight so this is
show and please do check out our website
triple w category five dot TV if you
have a Roku device make sure you had our
channel it's the category 5 TV network
and that will give you not just category
5 technology TV but our whole suite of
shows if you want to get familiar with
what shows we are offering what shows
are to come you can you know easy
easiest way is to go to patreon patreon
com because we have a list there of all
of our shows with a description so that
you can understand what it is that we're
actually presenting through our our
network and some people will be
surprised that oh it's not just category
5 technology TV anymore yeah we've been
working hard to grow this thing season 9
is really where it's at season eight was
a bit of a growth time for us moving
into studio d and then bring ya their
shows experimenting with things here and
there and learning what works what
doesn't work and well that's good yeah
question yeah from the chat room your
screens black so I don't know
we had a can you because you know how
you can get your interface the way you
want it can you get the individual tool
tools there how do you mean like can I
select one no like if you can take one
out if you didn't want it Oh like remove
a tour Wow um I don't think so that
would be an interesting thing to be able
to do i think that the toolbar is kind
of preset but i may be wrong it may be
it may be something that can be edited
in a way that i am not familiar with and
and somebody in the chat room or maybe
one of our viewers can post if you're
watching this on youtube may be posted
in the comments below if you know the
way to do that I feel like there's a
list that I've seen I know ears and I
can turn on and off different X bars or
yeah scale sku I just can't recall where
I would find that that's just because
I've never thought hey I should get rid
of my eraser bar or yeah exactly i like
to have the full suite yeah that's an
interesting question i'd love to hear if
if the community has a better answer
than I think so there's Robbie's answer
Bobby doesn't mind that he doesn't know
everything so as long as you know huh I
don't see it but I'm looking in the
wrong spot obviously obviously do we get
any other questions while we still have
just a split second here before the end
of the show because I'd love to help you
out if I can and you can get into our
chat room and and when Shelly's looking
over here she's actually got a chat room
up that's on IRC nice and old-school
irc.freenode.net and our chat room is
category 5 or if you don't have an IRC
client you're not familiar with that or
you just want to get there real fast go
to category five dot TV / chat that's
category five dot TV / chat that will
take you directly into a web chat
application if however you want to use
an IRC application and you're not too
sure how to set it up
do that same thing except add dot PHP to
the end so category 5 TV / chat dot PHP
that gives you instructions on how to
set it up in pidgin how to access our
chat room through third-party
applications things like that very good
all rights just posted that so Oh
fantastic thanks about her cheers Cheers
well that is all the time that we have
tonight it always flies by we have a lot
of fun and it was such a pleasure to
have our town here yeah that was great
about Zorin OS really an honor to have
him join us and talk about their product
so do check it out I call it a product
kinda is because I mean they're doing a
commercial version but and so I'd
encourage you to support what they're
doing it like you said it's like 10
euros yeah for the business to get no
that's the ultimate oh the business one
is less than that so I'm of the mind set
and maybe it's because I offer free
stuff with our free network of shows and
and so you know i solicit donations
because it's what helps pay the bills so
if you love Zorin OS and it's something
is going to help you to help people get
on linux then yeah maybe consider
getting that ultimate version that's a
way that you can donate and i think
that's a unique model for them seem like
good guys too they are and and value
adding new features extra bonus features
if you pay that little bit then I think
that's advantageous and helps them out a
little bit yeah thanks everybody and
thanks Shelley for being here oh it's
fun yeah good to be here we help you
excuse me if we've helped you out in the
past or today shows feel free to put
something in our tip jar help us out a
lot appreciate that all right take care
everybody oh and before I wrap up I
wanted to remember last week I said I
was going to look at that pie we didn't
get to it tonight obviously Zorin OS was
a surprise version Elevens out oh we got
to get them on the show so that's what
happened I do intend to get back to that
so if you're interested in learning more
about the PI server we're going to be
getting back on track with
that so we'll talk to you next week good
night night hope you enjoy the show
category 5 TV broadcasts live from
Barrie Ontario Canada every tuesday at
seven pm eastern if you're watching this
on demand or through cable TV check out
the local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada will see you next
time thanks for tuning in
