all right it's tuesday january 26 2016
and hear the stories were covering this
week vtech learning lodge applications
are back online following November's
hack attack which exposed millions of
children's or smoke information nests
thermostats have been leaking users VIP
codes raising real concerns over
Internet of Things developers and how
they're approaching security it's also
been found that media devices sold to
several government offices have hidden
back doors with sniffing functions and
Google is going to be paying 130 million
pounds in back taxes in Britain an
independent half-life game has been
approved by valve yes and it's coming
soon it's written by a guy who quit his
job to create the game that's dedication
and remember that dad whose son ran up
the xbox bill for more than eight
thousand dollars we've got an update on
that story tonight and these stories are
coming right up so don't go away you've
got mad skills now hone them learn new
skills or improve your existing ones
with online video tutorials and training
from Linda calm through our special link
at cat five dot TV / Linda learn
software technology creative and
business skills you can use today to
help you achieve your professional goals
join today and start learning will give
you this chance to try it absolutely
free with unlimited access to all of the
courses sign up now for free cat5 dot TV
/ linda jeff weston and here are the
stories we're coming from the category 5
TV news room chill children's toy from
VTech has reopened key functions of its
learning lodge gate where a gateway for
the first time since it was hacked in
November 2015 the online saw a service
for as a portal for customers to
download games ebooks other content on
vtec devices they can now register
manage their accounts and use the app
store but some of the products including
the power extra laptop and ino TV remain
offline almost 6.4 million children's
details were exposed by a hacker and
of those products which remain offline
they include secret safe diary selfie
which is so ironic that it was hacked
and released snuggle and sleep musical
sheep and mobigo touch learning system
Alan Wong is v-tex chairman and the
group chief executive and he said in a
statement after the cyberattack we have
focused on further strengthening
security around our user registration
information and other services within
learning lodge mr. Wang goes on to warn
customers that they need to update their
learning lodge password as soon as
possible vtech is now confirmed that the
data access by the hacker include
children's names dates of birth and
gender as well as the name email address
encrypted passwords secret question and
answer for password retrieval IP address
mailing address and download history of
the account holder well as I'm reading
this I'm starting to think I need to
check that out because I'm pretty sure
we had the vtec product from our kids
room did you have that crazy selfie
thing I did out of the selfie we had no
they were like a little handheld device
I forget what they're kinda register for
it yeah because you download games so
hmm that's a scary thing and do you do
allow your kids to enter their real
private information online well that's
the funny thing is I don't remember
registering anything about my kids other
than a profile that just had their name
right what all of my information was on
there sure so I don't know maybe people
think I'm a kid I act like it sometimes
but I don't know still I'm thinking
gotta go gotta go check this out but
it's interesting if I was part of that I
didn't get an email letting me know so
maybe I'm safe this is your note this is
your notice you're watching category
five and now you know change your
password that's reckon I can't use that
generic God that people used to use in
the 80s for password or password 123
password 123 oh that goes my email you
know what it really infuriates me about
this is that i was really hoping to use
an innotab 3s personally the pic now
yeah the pink one and now I just don't
know if I can try
that well maybe we'll find something for
you guys right bottom ba nest labs hope
to spark an Internet of Things
revolution with the introduction of the
Nest Learning Thermostat and after all
many homeowners had never encountered a
thermostat that was so adept at
maintaining heat cooling levels using a
bevy of sensors and software magic while
shutting off when you left the room and
turning back on when you returned and
while no one expects that a nest
thermostat should be locked down for
security purposes maybe like a cell
phone would be you would at least assume
that it wouldn't leak out personal
information of the homeowners however
two researchers from Princeton center of
information technology policy PhD
student sarf hack grover and fellow roya
and safe and sif I'd watched that one
yeah you know sorry about that I could
have just said that the two tube the
folks from the school yeah you let the
HD students this is like an ongoing
thing he throws these really difficult
things to say in the news because he's
just to trip me up the chat room loves
it it's how I can just see it's how I
can tell if you practiced yeah there was
no practicing this is Ho natural news
right there you go this is this is it
folks just throwing them into it anyway
those guys that I can't pronounce
discovered that nest thermostats were
actually putting out the home zip code
and as a result of the closest weather
station of its users nest acknowledged
that this was a bug in its thermostat
software I was not an intentional act
Google quickly fixed the issue while
something is insidious as a zip code is
relatively harmless in the grand scheme
of things you know compared to like vtec
releasing all of your kids information
the lacs programming could lead to even
more serious privacy leaks the Internet
of Things represents just another attack
vector for malicious parties to track
your every move and even when you think
you're safe and secure in your own home
it's up to tech companies to secure
customer data and for the things and
look and from the look of things they
still have a long way to go and it's
interesting i was chatting with a friend
of mine yesterday in a coffee shop and
he's like oh dude I've got this nest
thermostat I love it it's great talked
all about it I'm thinking hey this is
kind of cool i might have to check that
out
and now I'm finding out that everybody
knows where he lives yeah I i think
there's this i think that's an
interesting point that you make that
really companies if you're going to make
this stuff connected you got to think
about security absolutely and maybe
regular encryption is not good enough
like this stuff should not be leaked
well it's funny because going into the
next news story it just intensifies that
need for proper security and as we go
with everything digital there's more and
more opportunities for the really smart
hackers and crackers and also people
with malicious intent to gather this
information and unless you're the best
of the best of the best chances are
somebody's going to find a way around it
you know so companies need to wise up
and not just put out this product which
is it can't be an afterthought it can't
be an afterthought I mean that should
not happen and maybe the zip codes as
you say or not him that narrows things
down pretty close but still I mean if it
monitors when you go and all that kind
of stuff maybe there's some way that by
using your zip code they can find all
there's only three years in sorry get
the IP suddenly the fun oh you're not
home boom digital home invasions mmm or
maybe that's a stretch maybe it's not
but still and with that thought in mind
that X story Oh a company that supplies
audio-visual and building control
equipment to the US Army the White House
and other security conscious
organizations built a deliberately
concealed back door into dozens of its
products that could possibly be used to
hack or spy on users this is what
security researchers have said oh we're
talking about this one members of
austria-based security firm SEC consult
said that they discovered a backdoor
after analyzing the AMX n x 1200 it's a
programmable programmable device used to
control AV and building systems the
researchers first became suspicious
after accounting a function called set
up subtle user account not a subtle name
yeah which is ironic well anyway so this
account it added highly privileged
account with a hard-coded password to
the list of users authorized to login
unlike most of the other accounts this
one had the ability to
capture the data packets that we're
flowing between the device and the
network it was connected to the
researcher said someone with knowledge
of the back door could completely
reconfigure and take over the device and
due to the highest privileges also start
sniffing attacks from within the network
segment okay hold on let's be clear
about this these are benign benign
multimedia devices so as music players
right things like that that are
connected to government networks yes and
can sniff the data being passed through
those networks yes let me continue I
never get back to this because this is
like yeah right up my alley anyway the
tell-tale function not only equips the
account with packet sniffing
capabilities it also contains code that
prevents it from displaying when a list
of valid user names is enumerated like
talk about hey I'm here but you can't
find me coding so when sec consult
informed amx officials of the back door
last March we're going 2015 like a year
ago the equipment maker responded seven
months later with an update that
acclaimed fixed the problem but in fact
according to SEC console the update
merely changed the user name assigned to
the back door from Black Widow to I am
Batman Wow yes guys are great at
obfuscation it's incredible I'm gonna
hack a bank and use a program called
hack a bank and yeah and they'll never
figure it out because I am Batman anyway
so they changed the username but the
backdoor account and the capabilities
built into it we're all there they
remain so amx has since released a
statement claiming that the accounts
were used for diagnostics and
maintenance for computer support of
technical issues okay I'm a huge Tom
Clancy Fame I read his books love the
military stuff I play the game I do play
the game I just finished reading threat
vector which came out in 2009 you can
buy that through our amazon link it's
true it's true but the whole premise of
the threat
vector plotline yeah is that China
created a uploading virus so to speak to
benign media devices IE USB would be a
good example would be your your home
router yeah exactly and what would
happen is it embedded in the actual code
like the ones and zeros of the device
that allowed it to connect to the
servers in the Chinese government which
then sis's fiction this is fiction yeah
but it then gave them access to the
computer like they broke into the NSA
they broke into the CIA they got
everything whatever people did on the
computer they found out they used it to
manipulate them into working for the
Chinese government to sell secrets this
is the plot line at reading this new
story going on by contrast to that
fictional story the news story this
evening is nonfiction yeah this is real
life but that was a plot line in a book
2009 you know and now we're hearing
about it in actual news in 2016 I'm go
chicken and egg exacted did somebody
read that book and get a great idea I
don't know say is it's here I know
I'm Batman watch out for Bruce Wayne but
no but this is serious stuff yeah first
absolutely blows my mind that's
frightening hey I'm gonna calm down our
I'm gonna have an end yeah he's cool I
don't do that not not today yeah all
right google has agreed to pay 139
million pounds in back taxes after an
open audit of its accounts by the UK tax
authorities the payment covers money
owed since twenty 2005 and follows a
six-year inquiry by Her Majesty's
Revenue and Customs and Google is one of
several multinational companies to have
been accused of avoiding tax in spite of
making billions of pounds of sales in
Britain senior figures at the u.s.
research giant said it would follow new
rules which would see it pay more taxes
in the future ok I don't want to talk
too much about tax evasion but billions
of pounds in revenue that he'd pay taxes
and they didn't pay taxes but now
they're making good by paying 130
million pounds yes no maybe as a
settlement maybe you know because
cents on the dollar it doesn't sound i
paid thirteen percent for everything i
buy that's canada for you eh but hey i'm
sorry boo chi yeah on a plus side we
have maple syrup 24-7 pretty much yeah
365 we like we don't have to pay for
health care yep we can walk into a
hospital and just have a baby that's
what we we can it Canada's not that
weird although it has been done without
a whole other news story in the news
this week I heard it on the category 5
not TV newsrooms oh it must be true ah a
new fan made half-life game is due to be
released on Steam next month I'm excited
about this yes prospect is made by 25
year old indie developer Richard
Seabrook I can pronounce that name
anyway who two years ago decided to quit
his job and make the game as a job
application and valve the company behind
half life has given Seabrook approval to
use graphics and assets from half-life 2
and while the game is not an official
half-life title it has been approved by
the company nice two weeks ago we
reported a story about Pembroke Ontario
father who's 70 year old son ran up an
Xbox bill totaling over eight thousand
dollars and now Microsoft has given him
a refund for the full amount which is
what yeah so let's / good on him like no
Lance Perkins said he was stunned to
discover charges on his credit card bill
in December and criticized the company
for what he called a misleading business
scheme Perkins complained Microsoft and
the company agreed to look into the
charges he says microsoft initially told
him it couldn't refund the money when
the company learned perkins son was a
minor it agreed to refund the full
amount of eight thousand two hundred and
six dollars and 43 cents and in a
statement Microsoft responded by saying
Microsoft may occasionally choose to
provide a one-time refund in cases of
minors making purchases without parental
permission they also made it clear
though that those refunds are for very
small number of users in exceptional
cases and it will only be granted once
in a lifetime Perkins is surprised by
Microsoft's response and hopes that his
story will help protect other parents
and warn them how online gaming bills
can add up
big facts this week to sr wences and RW
nash and our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us if you found a
new story you'd like to send email it's
a newsroom at category five dot TV for
all your tech news with a slight linux
bias visit category 5 TV news room at
newsroom category 5 TV for the category
5 TV news room i'm jeff weston
