[Music]
hi welcome to new every day I'm carrying
my name is Shannon today so we have left
from Ranger day
hey and welcome back to new every day we
are so on the road head Nashville
thought we'd give you a little musical
number since we're headed to the country
music capital that was a very country
but there how dressy yeah yeah that's
right need a banjo in the background do
you miss me anyways yeah we have done
some amazing types and the National Park
the National Park you are beautiful and
the people so kind they are just so nice
to help us out and give us good advice
you know just what to go see and what
not to go see so we yeah we were hiking
along and we have had the opportunity
several park rangers and one of them
Ranger Dave we got to meet extra
commands visitor center and what's
interesting is when we were in
California last year january sometime we
had actually had the opportunity to
listen to several rangers and stories
that they had to be able to we talked
about that underpin your show and so
caring i got talking about that and we
said well how do we figure that out how
do we go to some shows and i said well
we went to the billboard in the
campgrounds and they actually told us he
isn't like at this time Ranger whoever
will be doing this hot and so I opened
up the paper that we received we went to
wat poking out with national park and
there is sad like historical talk was
Ranger at eleven o'clock we're like
we're down with it we're going to go
yeah and so Carrie I actually started
formulating questions that we wanted to
ask and we just named him Ranger days
because we needed some kind of contact
this person we created this identity for
this person it's a ranger native the
rain today if they may change through
the show is sometimes we don't remember
it but anyways yeah we showed up at the
visitor center and Matt Ranger Dave and
then he took us on a short hike through
the fourth and talked about the history
of the people living in the Smoky
Mountains in that particular area and it
was very informative and we are with
some other people who also have some
great questions some of my questions
were unrelated like what exactly is
grits made out of he knows vs. tomatoes
once the cracker barrel and I got a free
bowl of grits just as I never had it
before and it needs a lot of help to get
now it's like try it with self as I on
forever subscribe salt and pepper and
then we tried it with sugar sugar went
down sugar window but it does a lot I
just I don't even know what it anyways
been in corn good to know it's no but
yes so it would rain today was very
important informative they talked about
the community living there and how there
were two main families living in that
area and
he talked about how that community was
very very tight-knit and that the one
family had lots of boys got a family had
lots of girls so of course they married
each other because if you're going to
court somebody you're going to do it
you're going to support somebody locally
local because you're not going to have
to walk miles and miles and miles and
meet about so they intermarried and had
a really close-knit community there were
cemeteries right in the town everything
they needed right in the town we came to
one part without was a creek install
fighting crease where the families were
fighting over where to build the school
and how they actually resolve the spicy
the dispute with a one-family on one
side of the creek found their biggest
kid and then the other family on the
other side if we cut their biggest kid
and then they waited and whoever spotted
out and the kid who came out like
carrying the other one that who wants
they got to build this school on their
top of the creek very funny very of
doing but anyways what was highlighted
was that there were some real great
aspects of community and you know what
we laugh but that's how they did it in
Hebrew times right where the Philistine
turns out you don't Goliath and the
Israelites sent out David and basically
they duked it out so maybe they were
going back to biblical times to say hey
since I we're going to all things
anyways that's the better thought I want
interesting so continue so yes anyways
but they highlighted some really great
aspects of community living
what did you take away from from what he
talked about living in both communities
one of the things I took away was church
was the central I want of a
communication broker right so they would
talk about people that they were praying
for people that they were sick and if
somebody died it was listen for the bow
and the French public church bell and it
would ring once as a man died and twice
as a woman died and then it would rain
the number of years that that person was
so they would know from being in church
on Sunday who was sick and and they
would hear that and fill up a two or
three people were sick you know I man
and maybe two women and then they would
looking for the ballot okay that was two
women I was I was a two dings okay that
was a woman okay now let's see was it
young you know young Miss Ellie who's 13
and highlights you know whooping cough
or whatever something
that or was it old Miss Mabel who you
know is just dying old age so they would
listen for the number of rain the rain
13 times they would know it was young
novelli is the ring like 87 times they
knew it was old nastase miss Mabel and
so but what would happen that was so
cool yeah because they would drop
everything and Ranger date said
literally the men would unhook the plow
they would walk the horses back in but
they believed the plow where was walk
the horses in the woman would drop what
they were doing and they would go to
that home right away right away to do
with the family and the women would help
prepare the body and the men would go
and they would build the coffin and they
would do this was a believer required to
have been home for this person but what
stood out to me was that
everyone it didn't matter if you knew
the person really well or not you still
dropped everything because they were
part of your community and you stuck
with people of your community and yes
the Baptist minister mr. Evans who ran
the church in that community he has such
a strong influence on the people there
that basically if someone later on was
going to run for office or some position
in government if mr. Evans was on your
side you basically were in because the
people were following minister so
closely when we super close to
communities but then Ranger Dave said
that there was a dispute in the
community and it's kind of diffraction
them remember what the details were I
can't really remember what he said it
was so harsh a dispute because this one
man may married the pastor's daughter
yes and and like we said it was all like
her everybody not the brothers married
sisters were first cousins or what I
like separate Sam Sheppard families
married together well they went the man
and the pastor's daughter got married
and they went live somewhere and just
few
so great that the gentleman said that he
would not be buried beside the pastor
and so they're going to be buried up on
the hill so he could look down on them
forever forever and Carrie and I just
work with how could a community this
clothes become so at odds with each
other so on that note we're going to
pause because I want you to think about
the question have I ever been in a
dispute with someone that caused such
friction that is separated me from that
person and what did you do about it so
facing Jeff Weston yella you're building
a brand new beautiful website what are
you come on you're terrible actor what
does we're acting comes into play oh I
don't know where are they you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account if
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website it's true how much hard
drive space do you have how many email
account how many domains can point to it
well we've got an amazing deal for you
for a very limited time cap five dot TV
/ dreamhost for just five dollars and a
bit of change per month you are going to
get unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name through put your own com
guys to put that amazing website they
even working on on there if you run if
you want to build a wordpress site find
sign up cap 5 gb flash dreamhost don't
put a total papers on just don't do it
but hey it's a great deal folk fest feel
you're going to find five dollars and
change per month go to cap five dot TV /
dreamhost hey welcome back you're
watching you every day with Ken and
Harry if you go to our website delivered
you're going to our progress page you
can see all the wonderful people and
groups who are supporting us you need
something from Amazon if you go to the
link on our partners page and purchase
your products through there we get a
little bit of that money in return it
helps us keep this show going so we're
very grateful for that if you would
check that out but Jen you left us with
a question so the question was have you
ever been at odds with someone that
actually caused like the dispute with
your family apart and what did you do
about that and so because that's huge
like this family and it's me how
basically was ripped apart over a
dispute and what's interesting is when
we drove into pigeon forge there's the
sign that says the Hatfields and the
McCoys and and I learned about them on
bugs bunny growing up which was a
cartoon put out by Warner Brothers and
it was like these feuding men and Carrie
wasn't kind of been aware that oh yeah
it's the famous view between these two
and families and just sort of went wow
that's being around here like and the
question is what you know what causes
you and what causes of
people put to be in such dispute that it
separates people to the point of death
because basic basically it would come
down Phil Campbell you kill someone from
our family so we got to kill someone
from your family like it was like nah
see what happens yeah I'm gonna make
sure yeah personal story
um
but feuding is very much part of a lot
to say what I know about I want to say
the Smoky Mountains and sort of that era
of the 1800s and you really read a lot
about it in books of feuding families
and but really what comes down to it and
this is the question that I asked is
have you ever been in that situation and
what did you do about it and a lot of it
comes to pry and unforgiveness and an
unwillingness to make things right and I
think sometimes we get ourselves into
situations and we aren't willing like we
believe that we are so right and you
very well might be so right but you
aren't willing actually two as a passer
once bet in the sermon you know build a
bridge and get over it right the thing
is the past we're saying are you willing
like pointing the finger at himself are
you willing to build a bridge and get
over it like are you going to take those
steps of peace
immunity or you just going to know I
want to taste it on your high horse and
say we'll know if they're going to want
to make things right they have to come
to me and so that is very interesting as
we stood in that cemetery and to serve
wine huh and I'm am I willing to sit in
the business and division from my family
and not that my family is currently
submissive but what am I willing to do
actually different unity to the family
and so that was one of the things that
we learned from stranger date but
another thing I we actually learned it
wasn't a lot in that cemetery yes yeah
because another thing we learned about
was you know he said what way to all of
these tombstones face and they all say
eat and you'd like to know why and the
story is in the book of Revelation
Christ will return from CSIS so the
people who are very there wanted didn't
want their face on their back yard
tarragon came back yeah which I thought
was so cool that this is the story that
is being pulled and it's biblical is
true and so I found that very
encouraging to listen to Ranger Dave say
that and then how important it was to
this
community to be ready for when Christ
returns with I'm leg like thats really
hope those are two of the things that I
learned from Ranger day but then we also
learned about the ccc so we have so the
CCC is the civilians
something for construction conservation
conservation so the Illian Conservation
Corps so basically in the time of the
depression President Roosevelt realized
that people need a job and there was
work to be done so they came up with
this conservation corps and but
basically these young men between the
ages of 18-25 could have a job like they
had to be currently unemployed and but
you know ready willing and able might be
like having the attitude of the FM
willing to work and able to work and so
base basically these young men would
come to these different national parks
work needed to be done and so they would
put them to work and they would get paid
thirty dollars months and five dollars
they got to keep and the rest I had sent
home to their family but they built they
would build bridges
and to all sorts of maintenance around
the park as we're crossing over furs we
would look at the masonry and recognize
with the oldest clothes was fifth grade
was built by the CCC so amazing and then
when the war started the second world
war yet all those men then went off to
war and they already were equipped to
know how to build bridges and a lot of
construction so kind of like interesting
little piece of history another
interesting thing that he mentioned was
as we were walking along the creek we
still talking about the families within
the feuding family and
there was one area where women would
come and they would wash their clothes
but he's addicted where they got caught
up on the gossip so what's going on this
family was going on to family and I just
think wow that's a good place to have
somewhere where people can connect and
talk but you can use either use it to
for a good thing to help build community
or that can be where things start to
fall apart yeah right you hear something
and then any become offended right oh
you said that about people use it I
remember one time a family member like
said something hurtful about my mother
they didn't intend it to be that way but
I was I felt a sense it was like they
don't think I think this way about my
comment
well that makes me feel this way about
them but really like I choose whether or
not to get offended right and if i did
get offended what that was going to do
down the road because things like
especially a family is family they
escalate yes I'm sure okay like I don't
know what you have found but a small
issue of offense can quickly become out
of control they get too many people
involved because you care about each
other right yes and then this person
tells this person this person tells this
personal sudden it just multiplies yes
and and it's like okay we were offended
you can't tell everyone you're like it's
not right to tell everyone like deal
with it take it to the Lord and then go
to that person and so I'm Stephanie our
camera because the light is coming in it
looked kind of cool but for may be weird
so if you are a lot
so it is really interesting listen to
range or Dave and asking him and he told
us so much about like the Bears and the
animals and the invasive plant a bug
that were coming in and destroying the
trees and how you know these full of
bugs were coming in for a scavenger
buzzer opportunity yes like hitchhikers
and they would come in and they were
destroying some of the trees and he felt
free because we were going to be a scale
to experience what he had experienced
growing up and I just thought I don't
know 100 years before the course of able
to repair install and he medical yeah he
was able to tell us so much about the
history and we were able to speak and
glean from all of that information and
apply it to our own lives yeah and we
just you know we've always talked about
you know lesson term Rangers Davis like
30 like we had our questions and we went
to the right tiffin to ask for help like
help us to understand that and like I
was either walking along i'm like dead
what if it's made out of just like I
don't know
like what moonshine made up to look hot
when go to the doors I know to go to
local go to a local and even like today
we're at mcdonald i walked in i looked
at my phone and I looked at my watch I'm
like I said to the late yet standing in
the bathroom I'm like and she's like
it's 1030 I was like but what I my time
Tom I was when did we cross the line and
she actually said well when you went
past this exists and this is when you
cross the line I can't carry here I'm
like Carrie just so you know it's 10 20
and it's not 11 20 inches like Brooke
and I'm going to opt in for another hour
we were so ecstatic the fact that we had
gained a whole nother hour so that meant
we're going to get to where our
destinations on time with sometimes
they're both know what go to people who
know it's so important and even we
passed another sign in and said she
liked who is Jesus and then the bottom
of the sign said read the book of
Matthew like go to the source and it you
know as you know blood for rain from
Ranger days we had a list of questions
we went to someone who had answers but
they could actually explain to us what
the answers work and so we encourage you
today if you have questions about
whatever it is go to someone who
actually knows we talked in the last
show about Rio bulb and how he'd went to
the people who same age who really
didn't have the wisdom that you need
he should have stuck with his father's
advisors who had the life experiences
and i want to say the wisdom that he
needed to rain properly and so for you
to have the life that God has called you
to our
if you have questions about who God is
you need to go to the source like to get
a pastor speak out of christian friends
going to go to the book of Matthew like
actually just if you if you were
watching the show for the person we have
no idea who Jesus is you know I clearly
talked about pick up a Bible like open
it up I encourage you to Gideon's online
and check out their resources about who
is Jesus if you're thinking of course
you're getting observe the ones up with
the Bible's in the hotel and so they
have a really great app that I've used
and so I encourage you to go to Gideon's
online they have answers and go to the
people that actually have the answers
that you're searching for don't
people who are kind of in the same boat
as you
so we encourage you to seek out a
Hawaiian Council
so thank you for tuning in again and we
hope that you'll join us next week as we
keep on traveling to Nashville yes 430
are thank you so much that you told to
get wise counsel would you help us to
speak out the people who have the
answers for us and was for those people
who are watching our show today who have
ever met you we ask in your name that
you're bold spirit would draw them to
yourself and more deserve distressing
for answers that they must speak out
answering some wide people people who
have experience in you and post father
thank you for people like the Gideon we
thank you for people like put on the
Alpha program well that cleared two
people well suppose you are
four wives calcification super Ranger
Dave and commands as we thought have
worked if you help us
with them why they are sharing with
others in some instances
well thanks again I'm an awesome move
you
