hi guys and today we're going to be
teaching you how to protect things like
your homes or your creations like pixel
art so that no one else can grease which
means they can't just destroy your
things or take things from your chest or
furnaces which is really hit hit mostly
Indians survival but it's also really
good at survival I've created I'm going
to show you how to protect a simple
house to create simple creative house
and how to connect your teleporter
inside your home to other homes of yours
so right here I've just started the
doorway it's just going to be simple in
the last episode I showed you how to
connect to this to the server because
it's a public creative server so if you
haven't seen that first you know after
you've watched this try and check it out
after so that you can connect to and
possibly play with me which would be
really nice so I'm just going to make
this pretty simple house not too big not
too small
we're going to make it look really cool
and protect it and add a teleporter to
it so inventory I have two doors I
didn't even see that and first I'm going
to sleep so here I have bed going to
replace that for that and to quickly
sleep sleep
what's night skip and so now we have the
good frame and I'm going to take a
different type of wood called hardwood
which in my survival series I can teach
you how to craft this kind of stuff
because this is a really nice kind of
wood for building with this is going to
be for Buckeye
this is getting to be pretty simple and
get some windows I think already have
some minor injury they were right there
I can't believe I didn't see that and it
looks like vanessa has made connected
glass and if you don't know what that is
check out my first episode because I'll
teach you how to connect that make a
connected glass they're connected glass
looks real nice your home's seemed more
decorative so they are that was actually
pretty quick I didn't know I could build
that fast so I'm going to try and make a
marble roof so I'm gonna search up
marble and then you just click on it and
you'll get it in your inventory so you
don't like have to drag or anything like
in Minecraft this server and um has lots
of mods so in when you first joined
minecraft in Europe in your private
world then you should try and download
some of these cool mods like the home
decor mod that's a lot of furniture and
such to your homes
so there now what we got to do is
quickly to the floor and then I'll teach
you how to protect it and add
teleporters to us
floating bed make the doorway like that
too and we're almost done they don't
protect it which is used from the area's
mod which you got it download because
it's really good if you have other
people playing and they can't destroy
your balance so try and get that before
I add any furniture anything fancy I'm
going to show you how to protect this so
I'm just gonna get an empty hand so it
doesn't you don't get distracted by
whatever is in my hand so first choose
one corner and dig like three blocks
down or something so yeah then go to t /
area then under core pose space one wait
wait
oh no no space I don't think such area
pose no space
I don't what oh I keep getting it wrong
how dare me so no space I'm not
yeah no space between the area and the
one get some snow to cover up that hole
and then you fly up into the opposite
corner fight pie sash area under core
pose - and then you will have these two
but it's still not protected so you're
going to do
Sasha protect under core and then you
just name it so I'm gonna do you tube
example and pull and now but why do I
keep getting it wrong I've been able to
do it so well before that's so weird
protect I'll just do but oh there's no
under core what is with me forgetting
these commands okay
so protect you - no wonder core in there
so protect you tube exam
finally soap will go inside my home and
where I've protected says in the bottom
left corner areas YouTube example seven
nine three mangofox seventy which means
no one else can destroy these blocks
unless I add them so I'm going to add
one of my friends long to stuff 13 to
show you how to add people so that they
have access to breaking your box so t /
select area and then see in the corner
how it says the seven nine three on what
it'll be any different number it just
depends on when you do it so that's how
many people are protecting things which
is crazy
so select area and then whatever your
number is in my case seven nine three
post seat and in the chat it'll say area
seven nine three selected then slash add
under core add owner and then space
seven nine three or whatever your number
is space what your player's name is the
player you want to add snai miss on the
step thirteen and then you have to write
the name of your areas you do
YouTube XM and then look now it says
that longest f13 has also been added and
it's a different number this time which
is seven nine four so now that we've
done that we'll add some teleporters and
then once we've done that I guess we can
just decorate it for the fun of it so
give it a marble now teleporters is
admired so you're gonna have to download
that mod I'm not quite sure what it's
called so they're actually not called um
teleporters search up travel net cuz I'm
that's what they're called I'm sure yes
so here it says travel net box for I
think it would be a bit better to do a
teleporter because well that's what most
people would search but yeah it's just
called chocolate book so I'm going to
call this you to exam pull it's time to
network I think I should add it to test
for my original video if you haven't
watched that it's in the description
below test owned by mangle Fox 70 no
store
but for
um so here you see the two other places
that I did in the original video ice
restaurant and ice with straw too so I'm
gonna go here and now I'm in the ice
restaurant exchange also when you open
it you see that my YouTube examples are
not here so you have to punch it with
with anything in your hand and it will
update it so that I can go back to my
home just really good so now let's get
to decorate in this lonely place I'm
gonna just make this look more natural
and I'm going to get this would be nice
so I'm gonna put this desk here and put
a globe on it so this is a home decor
mod and I'm office chair you can find
all these in the inventory here there's
that page on this server starts on page
16 the home decor I'm not quite sure
when it ends but I don't really think
that's very important the moment so
let's also get a fan punch it and then
we'll start going and a trash bin so now
we have this nice little : o sadly you
can't sit in the office tears but you've
been pretty cool if you could that might
be a future update I'm not sure
get rid of this cement and let's find
some more cool things let's get that
clock and we'll put a little tour or at
the side of the bed to put like
okay so nightstand nights in my mind
went blank for a sec so let's use the
dark ones because they um it would match
better and then put the clock on now we
have a really good place I'll put
another one down so that I can put down
bookcases would be good but not on there
couple bookcases wooden tree oh we also
have paintings not quite sure how you
graph them but oh the chairs startled me
I thought it was like this freaky sheet
come on put down Sun so I can sleep
everyone wants me to sleep they're
probably yelling at me right now alright
guys remember it's a sense fault
thank you oh I was about to say that it
was just a blank canvas I looked at a
little Renault rainbow what these
paintings are not behaving themselves
how it looks like a giant painting
pretty much the point they should add on
their giant double paintings like in
Minecraft because those would be nice a
little piano this is more of an old
style home not like one of the modern
homes that just give me an idea we
should build a modern home yeah let's
try and do that future episode
also there are wall shelves yay place
them down and then you can place blocks
on them so I'm going to get fined
what about should I check should i I'm
gonna do a plasma lamp wait a plasma
ball and trophy the trophies here center
here and they are so now I have a trophy
and such let's get these out of my
inventory and hmm ooh wall and
discipline put these on the outside this
is a very non modern house okay so this
house is pretty much completed if I do
say so myself and if we have time we'll
try and get the beginning of the modern
home done and in the next episode we'll
work on that and then do and then
get back to the rivals here so near the
road so dungeon stone is what I'm using
must already have it in my inventory
yeah I do so this is what I'm going to
do this
and steel fence which I think would look
really nice and match this stuff I kind
of just did the dungeon stone part on at
random not quite sure why I did it just
thought it looked nice I guess
so now we have a home we've um we've um
protected it we've added a teleporter
system that's perfect it's the perfect
home it but I so thanks for watching
we're gonna have to wrap it up get
inside the home
outro I'll stand on the waste bucket
goodbye thanks for subscribing and
following on Twitter and the trash can
subs awesome
goodbye hope you can come on the server
too and see me one day
