this one is really creepy this is
totally creepy the future is apparently
here and it's creepier than we ever
imagined
a Japanese company called Vinc Lu is now
taking pre-orders from Japan and the
United States for a new interactive
artificial intelligence driven home
automation system or as the promos make
it appear a virtual girlfriend for a
lonely business
it's not super creepy it is creepy
Sasha like we start off with you mixing
up Star Wars and Star Trek and then you
start telling us about girlfriends
girlfriends in a box they're not a great
alternative like to real to real people
if you have a real person as an option
but not everybody has a real person as
an option yes but having the virtual
option then prevents you from the
necessity of going out and finding a
real person maybe you know what let's
just test it out we'll get one and do
the news getting up with the girlfriend
with the girlfriend in the box and then
if she would miss read things maybe not
maybe not what if we built something
that looked like the virtual girlfriend
box and puts a shin and put sashes for
Halloween this year I should be she's on
chroma key we can do these things who
could build something like that I think
I think that it's a really great idea
that it shouldn't be used for them Darby
saying do it yep that's our new second
I'm just right because I listen Jeff if
she was hooked up to the robot kitchen
and you had a hankering for something
and then you were like and then you
could this texture like I kind of want
like cabbage rolls tonight and she'd be
like well you better pick up some canned
tomatoes cuz we're out okay so all right
we're not recording correct we are
recording and we're live okay live is
one thing recording is okay so wait
looper real like what happens when
awesome there's a mod for a closed this
version there won't be this big she's a
will be someone I'll hack it you know
guarantee there will be a reason for the
internet is porn okay okay okay so so
now you're sitting there going I'm bored
hey do me a favor give me a show and
your box
you a show like I I have more faith I
feel like she's the one who has no faith
in humankind so to the me robots going
to the moon but I just needs to be
exploited in a sexual matter I think
that it's an emotional I think Jeff just
says it's going to be but yes it is
going to be a problem as far as
emotional goes is that the end of the
conversation are we no well yeah we're
signing off it's the end of the
conversation it will be it just the
forever this is gonna go on like the
grandmas robot making lasagna I'm
willing to like Grandma's robot guy what
if you Ashley you had a great suggestion
about connecting this to grandma's
cooking robot I know I think that it
would be a great connection I think that
she could orchestrate your meals she
could tell you in the fridge what you
needed and would you like for dinner
sweetheart
I'll build it with my robot Oh dinner
will be ready in 15 minutes sweetie
better get on that subway I can see that
you're lollygagging don't get in that
lineup
she would say lolly game that is that a
word that they use that the kids use
these days anybody I don't think anybody
said lollygagging in the last 60 70
years except for Sasha she's bringing it
back you know technology's just getting
weird like Tammy got she was cool now
girlfriend in a box come on what if
technology was your assistant what if it
would like you get better good service
then you're Zuckerberg but you get into
a lineup and your phone buzzes and says
you actually don't have time for this
move along my friend that tells me my
computer's watching what I'm doing where
I'm going I can keep my phone stalks me
sure it does yeah did I tell you about
the time that my wife and I had a
conversation on the phone and then I
opened up Facebook and there was an ad
specifically about the thing that we
were talking about I'm convinced
Facebook was listening to us
yeah where you have schizophrenia that's
possible I'm starting to think so this
whole you know how you won't let
something go you know how you're so
bothered by this might by just see I see
you man you're just going down and relax
into it no it's just humanity Oh sparkly
balls is finally back on my team
lolly kickin is a valid word legit word
just sayin hasn't really the UK doddle
would you rather I say doddle dot bottle
works bottle is better than lollygag I
just
you're getting very persnickety I listen
if it's over one syllable it's just not
worth it that's because of Twitter
exactly you have bit your brain has been
hacked possibly yeah okay guys we need a
debate show head-to-head Oh big be a
relevant show on CBC hakimoto breakers
with a good point I'm waiting for the
first person who is arrested and
convicted because they told Alexa to
search for something oh my goodness I'm
just creeped out by this
you have Merry Christmas everything this
is sorry that there's Jeff I realize I'm
in the minority but that doesn't make me
wrong I'm gonna have nightmares my
computer is trying to date me he loves
you you love your computer there's
nothing wrong with that yes but not
emotionally I just have a fond regard
how much time do you spend with your
computer every day Jeff are we talking
about my work computer right personal
care I don't get enough time with my
personal computer you you would like to
get more time with your personal
computer I would like my personal
computer to make itself available to me
more often but I have to share it with
others in my family okay
or me it turns out is on my side I
thought that he was with you but it's
okay we're actually
[Music]
