hello and welcome back to new every day
my name is Carrie my name is Jen lens
Jim hi I'm Shelly and on today's show we
are in Lake two of our 616 series so
stay tuned because we come back going to
talk about hacky cultivate presence of
the Lord in your life so stay tuned
thanks for tuning in to new every day we
are in our second part of our great road
adventure six great lakes in 16 hours we
have now been driving just over nine
hours we are in Michigan and yep Flint
Michigan we are still driving and one of
the things that we talked about was I
know especially when I go away on
vacation when the hardest things to do
is to stay I want to say up to date in
my devotions because I'm a routine
person I get up every morning I have I
know first ok she wake I hear they learn
same song then she opens her door she
comes out she turns on the kettle looks
down the toast and gets her pores her
milk in the coffee cup that's true toast
pops up it's better pours the coffee
coffee sit percolates or whatever it
does and then she eats her toast and a
piece of fruit and then later she drinks
her coffee and it's the same thing every
morning everyone I'm such a new person
well while I'm taking my coffee I as my
intentional time at the Lord that's one
of the major ways that I spent time
before they cultivate the words presents
and so I I personally read the Bible
every day and I make notes hi so I've
read a chapter make a note create a
chapter make a note and that's what I
have been doing for years like 20 plus
years probably I want to stay close to
25 years I've been doing that or i read
it i know i started reading when i was
going to so you couldn't read at who i
know she was amazing oh but if you did
math 2 plus 25 makes 27 yo yeah see oh
my gosh I'm your elder so then anyways
that's a big fat lie so one of the
things i cultivate the presence of the
lord in my life is by reading the Bible
every day and if I find if I go to bed
without reading Bible I just feel lost
and even this morning before I got up to
eat breakfast I I read my Bible quickly
while quickly enough that i read the
chapter and i sent off I made a note
sent off to Texas friends that I share
that with every day and then I went out
to raise the legs I thought I need to
read my Bible first I need to start it
off while so just wondering in general
how do you each one spend time with or
like is it a regular everyday thing or
what turf rhythm do you have a rhythm
so on so next take away James captions
oh wow so James have you all about
spending time with horror calton we say
cultivating its presence we know that
the large presence is always wins we
understand that but when we take all to
be present is like cultivating
relationship right don't you know how do
you go about building relationship with
the Lord well you know what I just want
to speak to that because I'm going to
bed you're right that it has to be a
choice you have to be intentional about
spending time with someone in order to
actually build a relationship and
sometimes even when you like don't feel
like it or not in the place or it's not
a similarly routine or whatever you just
got to do it so for this 6 and 16 I did
not want to come I did not want to come
I like didn't want to drive I didn't
want to sit in the car I didn't want to
go so far I'd rather be outside blah
blah blah blah blah but I love my
friends and I wanted to be in their
presence and I want to spend time with
them and so that's why I chose to come
if I if you don't spend time with your
friends it's so easy just to fall out of
touch with them yes so it's the actual
time together that I think makes the
biggest difference yeah
and so it is so important to realize
that that not even when you feel like
spending time with the Lord it is so
important to spend time with the Lauren
so James how would you say you cultivate
that relationship the Lord for me one of
the things that are kind of implemented
last year and in driving going he's one
of our biggest things is what my alarm
wakes me up it's its worship music so
it's so that I start the day off on a
good foot that's the song of my heart
content and energy channels apart and
also like I also am very intentional
about listening to it more or in the
truck they all work and stuff whatever i
can write and podcasts and stuff to my
cast as well and then I've also got over
the past and say six or seven months
I've been doing a couple of bible
studies that we do it different people a
stenotic get more connected before
that's
Shelley how would you say you go about
cultivating your relationship with the
Lord spending time with him kind of much
like James and we've kind of hit a few
points that I do every morning I have a
long commute to work so that's kind of
my quiet time before i start my day gets
my day off on a good foot I find worship
music in the car it's also a good way I
find that I spent time with the Lord and
I asked them to speak to me about how
the Bible kind of fits into our everyday
life how it what does he want to reveal
to me today or what do I need to learn a
lesson so I need to learn today I kind
of start off my day asking questions
throughout the day he either reveal
something to me or he doesn't so I feel
like by the ending of the day I I've
either learned something or something's
been revealed or ichat with a good
friend or you know just different people
that you have in your life that you call
it yeah it just brings different the
others say something or someone shares a
story or email it takes your memory huh
chase you ever it's like wow oh yeah so
was a I just really need to go about
your day kind of always having something
to think about or being high being
mindful of what you're actually spending
time thinking about or where your
thoughts are going I fine because you
could let those go very easily just
going about worldly things yeah you know
what I think's interesting is that you
know each of you have mentioned that
it's the morning time when you start
your day and you're you're committing
your way to God here you're starting
your thoughts on him and there's a verse
I think in Proverbs says commit your way
to the Lord and He will establish your
thoughts
and your thoughts then become your words
and your words like you're getting out
what you're actually thinking of us yeah
like basically we're doing your mind
because it's how you think that kind of
goes about your actions well yeah it's
very often before I even get out of bed
in the morning I'll say lord help me to
think what you want me to think i'm
going to see what you want me to see I
want me to say what you want me to say I
me to feel how what you want me to feel
I me to go where you want me to go help
me to do everything that you want me to
do I just committing yeah my day to the
Lord's I want to have the mind of Christ
I want to see what he k season how he
sees the different people going to run
in today yeah and I want to have that
line side a very happy you cultivate
that relationship lord I read the Bible
and pray in the morning and then I do
have a good 45 minutes to work so I
actually listened to the audio Bible so
sometimes it'll be the same thing that i
read in the mornings i'm going to hear
it again or it'll be something totally
different than this so I don't let I
like to listen to a lot of like
educational podcasts so I don't do those
in the morning only do them on the way
back from work
not as to knit so we're going to take a
break and what the question I want to
ask you is what happens when we don't
spend time with the Lord crazy stuff
crazy crane rate who are we will be
right back Jeff Weston Yama you're
building a brand-new beautiful website
what are you all right you're terrible
actor what does we're acting comes into
play oh I don't know where I think
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website let's sure how much hard
drive space do you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cat five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the room so your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
just don't fulfill the papers are just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're gonna find five
dollars and change per month go to cat
five dot TV / dreamhost hey everyone
welcome back to do every day we're still
in the car and we're just talking about
what happens when maybe you don't take
time to spend
with God in the sense that you're
praying or reading the Bible or thinking
on thinking about him thinking about
Jesus and what he's done for you and
what kind of what the repercussions of
not building that relationship can be as
we talk about that all the time right
we're like read your Bible pray let me
say it all the time but we never talk
about what happens when you don't and I
know personally when I don't spend time
for we're just going to go around and
share our own experience our own
thoughts but that but parsley when I
don't spend time or I feel out of whack
I literally feel like something is wrong
like I I don't either i'm not hearing
from the Lord ER or I just feel like I'm
done on the inside like I'm missing
something like the piece of puzzle for
my day is missing like the laces aren't
tied tight like the buttons aren't all
we have to like something I feel undone
so for me when I don't spend time for I
feel like something is missing so next
Harry yo ok well when I don't um
I find it harder to I find it harder to
like think thoughts that actually honor
God and think thoughts about other
people that I know God would love so
it's hard to see people in situations in
the same with the same mindset that
Christ would have like loving them first
and putting them first it's so much
harder to do that and doesn't come as
naturally I know that just not reading
my Bible one morning does not change the
fact that I am a new creation and that
Christ lives in me and empowers me to do
these things right you know just like
when I leave the house it doesn't that
change the fact that Jed is my friend
and she's my roommate doesn't change
that binary or you can have a not as
close a relationship right so I find
that yeah it changes my I feel like my
mindset is not as quick to I'm not as
quick to emulate like his love his
compassion his kindness towards other
people and also find that it's easier to
justify things that I know God probably
wouldn't approve of it's just easier to
justify it I've had a hard day at work
you know whatever it is I just want to
do they become entitled yeah I guess
that's really good word for it
interesting Maxie Shelly I feel like I'm
scraping the bottom of the barrel
sometimes I feel very empty like I have
nothing to give anyone whether it's
kindness or patience or tolerance or I
don't know I just feel very empty like
I'm not being filled up with anything
oh yeah James dark-colored grizzly
everybody I think on this with money I
noticed that it's more difficult to
operate grace don't have to realize yeah
I'll extend the love to other people
around you got in it swati should have a
crappy day hello yes this is true yeah
now we've spent a lot of time talking
about cultivating the presence of God in
our own personal time when I also find
that I can call to me the presence of
the Lord when I with other climbers like
when I a man like you know where we are
now like I am building my as I filled my
relationship with Gary and James and
show him actually building a
relationship with the Lord and also in
church when I come together with other
believers I feel like I'm connecting
with god like I'm building my
relationship with god and so I find I
don't know if you guys from the same way
that when you come together to worship
with other believers how you feel like
you do you feel like you sense the
presence of the lord or yeah yeah so
what has been your experience on that
well I just went for coffee with a
friend of mine and I hadn't seen her for
quite a long period of time and so we
talked about live we talked about work
we talked about family and all these
things and then we started talking about
who God is and the exciting things that
are happening in our lives because of
our relationship with him or things we
see in other people's lives because what
he's doing now people have experienced
him and I left me with her so encouraged
and it wasn't because you know she was
directly encouraging me as a carry oh
you know what so awesome or write
whatever it was because she was telling
me what the goodness of God in her life
and then kind of reaffirmed his goodness
click to me right holy I agree and ya
know I in the back seat we have two
people that came back to God interviewee
i would say unique I eid connect with
God in nature but I miss Shelley said
something very interesting I know
getting away to be with the Lord and so
do you want to talk a little bit of how
you take and it's like a stab of the
looms like you take a Sabbath away from
technology away from people and you
really use that day to cultivate your
spirit yeah do you want to talk a little
bit about how that all came out or even
how you discovered that but that's when
you enjoy doing st. James does the same
thank you actually go out and away from
people in tenderness so talk a little
bit about how that called major
relationship with the Lord I start off
with just nature trail walks right and
then it just kind of turned into this is
where I found Pete's this is where I
felt quietness and then I just started
taking longer longer walks in forest
because we have a lot of Bluffs around
us and just different places up north
that up there in for st areas and just
in the bush pretty well and I just found
that I was I don't know I feel like I
wasn't screaming the balls barrel there
you know I felt like when I came back
from that place i was able I was full
and then I was able to share like James
that grace to other people and just love
I don't I felt peaceful peaceful more
peaceful coming back from a day like a
full day outside or full morning or full
afternoon it needed to be a very long
period of time outside you know last
week it's interesting you say that
Shelley and last week we talked about
planning ray and you have to plan an
adventure and you probably have to say
no to certain things that day or plan to
actually be away that day
actually is draining like spending time
and then spending
thank you so much for tuning in and
we're going to see you same time same
place next week check us out with new
everyday TV go on our partners page have
a look at all the amazing organizations
who are helping us make this possible
thanks again to category 5 TV and Robbie
Ferguson for making this happen have a
great week see you later
you
