for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
welcome to episode number 274 of
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
December the 18 2012 nice to see you hey
everybody Sasha dear made us everybody
yes see ya good to see you good I have
to apologize in advance I have a cold so
my voice may not last but other than
that fine I'm ready for Christmas so
like in the minority totally excited
ready to wrap it feels like it's been so
much time and you were on the show back
in november and december or Noah we had
our anniversary show yeah so you were
part of that and then some time has
passed since then so it's really good to
see you again it's yeah it's been a
while but i'll be back more frequently
like next week special delivery
excellent all right we're gonna look at
that in just a second alright so coming
up in the newsroom mozilla mozilla i
might say that wrong she's thinking
mozzarella I'm thinking mozzarella I'm
hungry mozilla is bringing out its own
line of smartphones based on the new
firefox operating system okay what i
want to hear about this all right and
you will Montilla fire phones and a
firefox OS yes all right some bad news a
trojan is stealing tens of thousands of
dollars from European banking customers
bad news if you're a European banking
customer good news if you are at the
Trojan google maps is back on iOS a new
room robotic arm moves like a real arm
and can be controlled by thoughts is
that your robotic arm I'm controlling it
with my thought right now yeah
and best news wall a 3d printer has been
created in the UK which prints intricate
chocolate treats awesome fabulous stick
around these stories are coming up later
in the show sounds good also I want to
make mention that our mobile site is up
and running the line well one cat five
TV make sure you check it out and you
can scan that QR code or just visit that
on your mobile device mcat five dot TV
this postcard just arrived from hot ham
sweet the let's see through that I think
so hey gang and Robbie oh maybe I
finally found this postcard that I
bought while working at hot ham it is
hot ham what ham ham Australia for three
months but misplaced it in the move and
the move home at the end of winter which
is our summer better late than never
love the show keep it up we'll try and
send more cards from my travels from
Giles mmm something wrong pyrus rock
this world there you go hey pires rock
PS hope you could read that my forehead
right him Oh should I read the PS first
the kangaroo stamp there as well very
cool thank you very much pirate thank
you excellent just a real quick mention
if you didn't catch it make sure you go
back to episode number 2 69 Bailey Jay
Thompson's book herbs in the house is is
available now and it's that we've got a
copy for the kids look at that episode
269 we actually talked to her and you
can get a copy of the book off of her
website all the links are there on
episode number 2 69 so make sure you
check that out
awesome we've got to take a real quick
break we've got another announcement for
you for a wonderful giveaway but also
going to be taking a look at a brand new
line of printers from Brother Canada
stick around we've got a guest tanya is
joining us as well that's her so check
us out in the chat room make sure you
say hi category five dot t mean we'll be
right back after this join category five
technology TV on December 25th for our
Christmas special with musical
performances by our on-air team plus a
special guest performance by our co-host
from seasons one and two karrie webb
don't miss the Christmas special Tuesday
December 25th at seven p.m. eastern time
ww category 5e be at eco alkalines we
believe you should be able to trust your
batteries not just here but here here
and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here Eco alkalines of the
world's first and only certified carbon
neutral battery manufactured to the
highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference Eco alkalines calm oh right
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
and the international association of
internet broadcasters this is category 5
technology TV i'm your host Robbie
ferguson joined by sasha tomatoes
tonight and you can find our website at
triple w category 5 TV pleased to have
Tanya goffredo joining us from Brother
Canada at brother dot CA tonight it is
fantastic having you here Tanya good to
see you I thank you for having me I'm
super excited to be here tonight yeah
we're we're excited about this new line
of printers from Brother Canada it is
the business smart line I'm going to let
you kind of take it away and explain to
us what is so exceptionally exciting
about this product and it's interesting
to be excited
is it seems like printers have kind of
always been the same and when the
multifunction centers came out they have
grown and gotten better quality and
better and better but this is now all of
a sudden with business smarts it's
almost like there are a substantial
amount of innovations going on so I'm
going to let you can't take it away and
just explain to us what what the
business smarts line means to brother
and what it means to the consumers on
the other end as well sure absolutely
i'm happy to hear that you're excited
because we are brother are very excited
about this this new line of printers of
MFCs it's really a series of machine
that combines everything the small
business professional needs and it's
revolutionary it's new it's it's it's
hot basically what it allows consumers
is to a lot in the freedom not to
compromise anymore so what's happened
until now when consumers were looking
for inkjet machines they were usually
faced with some type of compromise so if
they were looking for a machine that had
lots of business features that usually
meant getting a bigger bulkier gene
right but if they were looking for
something more discreet more compact
they usually had to give up some of
those important business features those
features that we've all come to love and
use on a day-to-day basis so the
business smartseries really combines
both form and function and and it really
offers a complete solution for small
business professionals would it be okay
now I've got an mfc j 4 5 10 DW here at
the studio if you could just kind of run
through some of the the interesting
specs about this I'd love to to show the
viewers what what is different about
this printer absolutely so on I think
one of the most revolutionary of
features of the machine is this new
landscape printing technology right so
if you compare it to a any other machine
any other princess
right now Oh baby pig is the Machine and
stored in the machine is in portrait
orientation yeah I can open this up now
I've actually got it sitting on a stool
so it's a little bit hard to get that
out but now the viewers can see that
your face is eight and a half by 11
paper in that printer yes so what we've
done is basically we flipped the tray on
its side so now the me the paper is fed
and stored in the machine on its side in
the landscape orientation and that
really it's that feature that has
allowed us to greatly greatly reduce the
depth of the machine and has permitted
this beautiful design in the sleek
integrated design as well right now so
11 by 17 is a possibility with this
printer and that of course is a part of
the landscape layout as well yes an 11
11 x 17 printing is is a trend that
we've seen off with the on the growth
it's growing and I mean that's a feature
that anyone can use whether it be
architects engineers i mean i use 11 x
17 printing all the time even for
spreads for spreadsheets sometimes you
get these really number heavy
spreadsheets and you're trying three
details on in that in and a half by 11
paper on 11 x 17 it's just clear it's
easier to read it's more concise so it's
really something that it's an added into
this machine definitely i think also
great for small medium businesses that
want to be able to put up their own
posters things like that right 11 x 17
is take to eight and a half by 11 sheets
and stack them and that's that's the
size of it like that's all a really
they're sure that really brings in the
whole concept of insourcing versus
outsourcing so in the past if a small
business owner had to print something a
little more sophisticated they looked a
little better they would run out to
their local office supply store and
outsource the print job now with
something like the business smart you
can do it they can do it from the
comfort of their own small office right
the design is obviously quite beautiful
you've just done a wonderful job on the
design of the system one of the
interesting things about is that it's
got a 3.7 inch color touchscreen as well
which is a little hard to see on the
screen but viewers can actually see that
it is a touchscreen and I can actually
move icons around just by swiping just
like a smartphone or a tablet kind of
idea very intuitive and it was very I'll
be honest it was extremely easy to set
up we got it on Wi-Fi I have it actually
plugged in just to power there's it's
everything else is on Wi-Fi and I've got
my tablet set up so if you like tani we
can demonstrate being able to scan and
print directly from an Android device or
an iPhone or anything like that sure so
now looking at this particular device
you see that the flatbed is here so that
is that a legal size flatbed the Papa
diz iz letter size letter size ok so
it's a slightly smaller flat bit but
like you say the form of the footprint
of this printer is extremely small now I
use an mfc 6490 CDW and that particular
printer it's like you say it it has all
those wonderful functions like the 11 by
17 but it actually takes up that much
space in my dancing i love that printer
there's nothing wrong with with the mfc
6490 but this one the form factor is so
small I don't know if you can really
grasp you know if you imagine that this
is eight and a half by 11 paper and
we've only got an extra three inches on
either side
and the depth of it is quite small as
well so it's actually it's actually the
business part one of the key features is
that it's the smallest in its class
right now it's actually thirty five
percent smaller and footprint from
anything in its class right now the
actual depth of the machine is 11.4
inches so it's a it's really narrow and
it it's just one of the main pictures
that we have as well as 11 x 7 11 x 17
printing that we mentioned it's also
super fast it's fast it's in its class
as well and so it's a prince 20 pages
per minute is in black as well as 18
pages per minute is one color so it's
really the combination of fast print
speeds easy to use with the touchscreen
as you mentioned and the touch panel as
well as the swipe tap and drag low-cost
printing thanks to the super high yield
ink cartridges right and again the
design it's all about the look it's very
compact doesn't take much space so for
those small businesses and professionals
who don't have much space in their
offices it's it's it's a perfect fit
right now you mentioned super high yield
cartridges now I work with high yield
cartridges and all my printers because
then you get kind of better bang for the
buck but what is the super high yield
this sounds like something you yeah so
the super high yield cartridges with
this series it actually it yields
approximately 1200 pages and the super
high yield bits are twofold so for the
consumer it means it's a you're a saving
story so the more ink you have in your
cartridges the less your cost per pages
or and it's also also really convenient
so the more ink you have again in your
cartridge the less trips to the local
store and it's convenient it's cost
savings but it's also very good for the
environment so the whole recycling
unfortunately it's at you know with the
the more often you change your print
cartridges the more waves the more
plastic goes into landfills and her
brother were extremely environmentally
conscious it's extremely important to us
that we support as much
recycling and environmental protection
as possible we have a huge global
program actually called brother earth
and that's all about recycling for
example for toners we have the recycling
program as well and if anyone is
interested for more information on our
our brother earth initiatives strongly
encourage you to visit the brother earth
com to get more information on all the
initiatives that we have acquiring the
environment that's wonderful we can
certainly appreciate that here category
5 with our green initiatives and and I
love the idea of the sprout yield
cartridge ISM and just the whole printer
now looking at kind of like from a
technical standpoint and not not to be
you know we're just looking at this
amazing new printer so we are kind of
excited about it so I don't want to
sound like person I'm not kind of
excited super excited it's really a
great device I mean like you see how
small this thing is and I am used to
that whole thing that Aniyah is
mentioning that if you want those
business class features it's got to be a
huge footprint and taking up space this
is not I am the person in my office who
goes to run out and get the ink
cartridges so I'm just really excited
with a super high quality wise though
I'm impressed printing goes up to 6,000
x 1200 DPI and the scanners on the
brother mfc printers is all they've
always been impressive i mean i would he
scanned a lot of stuff from the old days
when I had a flatbed scanner and I had a
good flatbed scanner you but then when I
got a multi-function Center for brother
it was such better quality that i
scanned everything which is so much
better the scanner on this thing goes up
to 19 200 x 19 200 like the resolution
that 48 it's a 48-bit scanner the
quality is just exceptional so kudos on
a fantastic product thank you very much
i think we're scanning it's also it's a
it's good to mention that it's also at
the different you can scan 20 cor scan
to images scan to files to media's
there's lots difficult as you use a
scanning feature o CR v character
recognition so you'll be able to scan in
a document that would convert it over to
a like an actual document as opposed to
a scanned image exact now one of the
things that really excites me as well
I've been getting more and more into my
android tablet and to know that brother
is already there for for android and iOS
and I understand a lot of other devices
as well it is pretty cool so yeah have
you ever wanted to print something from
your phone like you're on a website it's
like well I need to be able to bring
this up so very iPhone or whatever you
want to be able to to do that I'm going
to actually bring up my print and scan
which is a free app that's available in
the Android Play Store and also in I
guess Apple's store I don't know what
the apple store is go it's just called
the apple store I think so okay the
Apple start all right let's just say I
want to do I'm going to print a web page
so I'll just click on print a web page
brings up Google by default let's just
go to Wikipedia just cuz it's a good
example
and I'll do a Star Trek article how's
that sound it's we're all just a bunch
of DS here all right wikipedia Star Trek
cuz we're printing text here all right
you can print graphics I mean with that
kind of resolution is going to be
fantastic as well there you go ok so now
I'm actually gonna bring it up on that
on this camera here because you probably
I hope be able to see it backlight
doesn't work very well on there some
unfortunately let's bring it up here
there's a big print button at the bottom
there
there it goes so now it's gonna give me
a print preview first and foremost I can
print just the currently viewed page or
print all see that oh nice this is right
Oh tablet right so all right so let's
print this there goes
and turns boom have here we go oh can I
hear the printer games I hear some
action yea it is definitely
and that's done as far as on the
computer on the screen goes now I can
take pictures and I can print them scan
to my tablet to my phone okay can you be
off location can you be away from the
house and print to that printer is it
just land only Tanya um that's a that's
a good question um it's a LAN Wi-Fi as
well I would I think what's really
important is that like you mentioned
before you were saying how brother no
there they were in red at the beginning
from with the Android device and that's
really important to us it's really for
us to cater to all the different users
so like you mentioned it is compatible
with both with the Android and the the
Apple iPhones as well as the windows 7
so that's a huge that's one of the
things that brother takes pride in its
just kicking to all the different users
needs very good definitely one of the
other things as we're looking at you
know this would be perfect I think
tanning for small businesses to exhibit
example that just immediately comes to
mind in particular I'm thinking about
home businesses pregnant in business for
eight nine years and it was it was tough
to find a spot for a larger form factor
printer this has got all those features
but also one of the things that it has
that we haven't mentioned here is that
it has duplex printing in that little
form factor again this is a very tiny
little thing and you've done it somehow
yeah and we've kind of got at all and
the duplex printing that's another thing
that ties in very well with the whole
the brother environmental aspect because
it is keeps paper and also for the
consumer it's another way to save
printing costs which is extremely
important for small business owners as
well
very good I I have opened it a couple
times just to show but it does have a
sheet feeder at the top as well if you
want to automatically run your documents
through if it's a multi-page scan that
will automatically put it over the
scanner and then spew it out so then you
can see how that works so we're very
excited to be giving away one of these
as part of our Christmas special next
week so and that is of course courtesy
of brother canada at brother dot CA and
we've set up a special link for you it's
cat five dot TV / brother and if you go
to that link it's actually going to just
take you straight over to this
particular printer so you learn all
about it now all these features small
form-factor perfect for a small business
medium business it's got to be you know
how much is this thing well you can
actually get it right now at staples for
199 so it's a yeah it's really it's a
that's perfectly priced from what you're
getting at that price you really like
you mentioned before you don't need
you're getting everything you can get
from one of these bigger machines in a
very small compact design again with the
11 x 17 printing super fast print speeds
really easy to use so as much as we
become so tech savvy it's really
important that everything uses is
intuitive and simple to use what's very
easy to use from the set up all the way
down to the day-to-day usage of it yeah
again low-cost printing as well so it's
really the ultimate combination and
prays that 189 well you've done I mean
brothers done a fantastic job at
creating the ideal small business
printer I think one last thing as the
question is coming in as doesn't have
card readers so I just want to show that
yes it does have USB as well as card
readers here
so all set and then the other question
is about linux compatibility so now I
notice that that on the website it's not
mentioned that the Linux is a compatible
operating system but i'll just let our
viewers know that i did a little bit of
investigating if you go to let's see i
created a quick link for you cat five
dot TV / brother linux
yeah I'm just gonna bring that off so
what directly out of the box it is mac
and windows compatible however there are
drivers available you can just visit our
brother website and are for the solution
Center and you can download the drivers
from our website as well perfect and
that's exactly what I just wanted to
point out that the drivers are available
for Linux and that hot link will take
you there as you as you're mentioning
it's the solution stop brother dot-com
with that you can get there real quick
tap five TV / brother linux Antonia a
it's been fantastic having you on the
show is there anything that we've
overlooked at all about this I mean it's
you've really innovated with this i love
the landscape design and for those who
are wondering about the whole you know
11 x 17 well how do you actually fit it
in so it's actually fed in through the
back so you've got a second sheet feeder
in the back that i can put my 11 x 17
paper standing up and it actually feeds
in which is again innovative and
space-saving so well that thank you
thank you very much for having me lots
of fun and again if anyone wants to
learn more about the business mart or
the ultimate combination like i like to
call it like we like to call it a
brother please visit your local staples
store or you can just learn more about
it on our website brother da da
fantastic thank you so much for being
here thank you there's just another
quick question about a small paper like
postcards sure can you can you want to
touch on that time sure I'm like all of
our inkjets you can print all the way
from 44 by six in this case we have to
11 by 17 so they're lots of diff sizes
that are compatible with the business
smart right okay so I'm just going to
show the carrot here and you'll see I
because this is sitting on the stool
it's a little awkward for me to get this
out but see it is an adjustable paper
carriage
just ok ok so it's adjustable to any
pretty much any size that you need some
passing any other questions in the chat
room while we have tenure here throw
those in now otherwise tenia it's been
lovely having you on the show thank you
so much do check out their website
brother see a fantastic printers and
then we stand by them and we do
appreciate your environmental
consciousness as well but that again cap
five Bob TV / brother is going to take
it directly to this specific printer
you're gonna love it so thanks so much
for having me again thank you thanks for
you on the show this is category 5
Ferguson and I am Sasha dramatis there
she is Here I am so we've got your
viewer questions coming up in just a few
moments time we're going to we're gonna
have those exciting news stories for you
it melts going on in the chat room send
greets out well other than I gapped the
chat room for about five minutes I'm so
sorry everybody um let's just see
everybody's liking this printer that's
aI don't think I know I really really
want one it would be absolutely perfect
for my office did I mention that we're
giving one away so you don't want to
miss next week's Christmas special next
week we're going to be we've got I mean
one of the exceptional thermaltake level
10 m nice to give away you've got the
brother brand new MF CJ 45-10 DW to give
away from the business smart series
we've got eco alkalines batteries for
eco appliance com we've got just a
fantastic slew of prizes for you on our
Christmas special I love that I'm gonna
be at the Christmas special I'm gonna be
cold it's gonna be me I know next week I
heard that some people are going to be
trying to stop buying to a little
musical numbers so beautiful that should
be nice I might even sing she might
alright we ready for the news sure yeah
we can take it away a little early oh is
it early well okay let's do the news all
right okay the creators in the popular
browser Firefox believe they have more
to offer than just the browser starting
in 2013 a new line of smartphones will
be released from Mozilla which run the
new firefox operating system Mozilla
states the reason for making an
independent operating system on Linux is
to establish the html5 friendly
environment using open to only open
technologies Nate cool while Mozilla
hopes to compete against Microsoft's
Windows Phone products as well as
Apple's iPhone it seems apparent that
they will be more directly competing
with Android more information is
available on mozilla.org and we have
online banking customers in Europe are
falling victim by the thousands to a new
banking Trojan that is infecting Android
and BlackBerry devices and capable of
defeating two-factor authentication the
trojan dubbed euro grabber by
researchers at check point software
technologies and very safe is a variant
of the zip mo trojan zip mo being the
short name for zeus in the mobile Zippo
has has not moved outside europe but
could eventually target customers in the
united states for example as more banks
require a second form of authentication
for their online accounts it's a date
the researcher said your grabber has
infected more than 30,000 users and
stolen estimated 36 million euros huge
once the Trojan infects the customers pc
and mobile devices it's able to transfer
funds from a compromised account without
the victims knowledge and amounts
ranging from fifth from 500 to 250
thousand euros so it's looks it's a
scary one it's bad I believe that this
kind of comes from
of a phishing scam where they trick you
into installing an update to your
banking software and how you get the
update writing software right hey and it
could come in as an ad or something you
click on it it's an update to let's say
you use X bank and so it says the x bank
app needs to be updated but then it's
actually installing a sniffer Fisher zoo
then okay you all load the brand new
updated banking app and it's asking for
your bank card and password again so you
enter it in and it's not actually the
banking act right Wow so again it's not
a when they're calling it a trojan and i
don't know if that is because of the way
that it's being distributed and how its
kind of moving around but realistically
it's still it falls back to fishing it's
sneaky because i wouldn't think that of
just an update to update a nap right
well it's working and then with some of
the stuff you got to be very very
careful when you browsing the web and
entering information that always always
always be very older than i use of that
and now more and more people are doing
online banking and I bank almost solely
on my phone so yeah I'm even at the
point now where when i'm entering
passwords i don't ever hit enter to
submit my password i always use the
mouse to click on ok because I've had it
happen where a program in the background
was actually having my password typed
into it oh when I hit enter and it would
submit it to that program that's a good
tip yeah it's really cautious hmm google
has released its Maps app for the iphone
in the wake of complaints about apple's
software apple contra o controversially
replace the search giant's mapping
system or service with its own when it
released its latest handset the iphone 5
sale the move was widely criticized
after numerous mistakes were found in
Apple maps search results google's app
introduces functions previously
restricted to android devices such as
voice guided to turn-by-turn directions
indoor panoramic images 3d mock-up of
mock-ups of buildings and quick to
render vector graphics
sounds cool that's cool good to have
them back good to have a fiasco not
dodgy situation here is Jan sure
scheuermann who is 53 and paralyzed from
the neck down was able to defy or two
definitely grasped and move a variety of
objects just like a normal arm brain
implants were used to control the
robotic arm in the study reported by the
lancet medical journal experts in the
field said it was unprecedented
precedented her performance at a
remarkable achievement jan was implanted
with two sensors each four millimeters
by four millimeters in the motor cortex
of her brain ah I know she's eating a
chocolate bar about what she's doing she
is she's actually she's eating to lift
up I mean this is somebody who remember
does not have use of her arms so the the
joy that would come from being able to
through thought just like you or I would
would lift our own just by thinking
about it like think I want to eat a
chocolate bar to be able to you know of
course it's you know the early model so
it's a very large device on that's
connecting to her brain but through
thought she's able to move this Armand
and feed herself absolutely incredible a
hundred tiny needles on each sensor pick
up the electrical activity from about
200 individual brain cells the pulses of
electricity in the brain are then
translated into commands to move the arm
which bends at the elbow and wrist and
can grab an object jan was able to
control the arm after the second day of
training and over a period of 14 weeks
became increasingly skillful the report
said that she gained coordination skill
and speed almost similar to that of an
able-bodied person by the end of the
study so incredible that is amazing for
the future or I guess for now um and
finally technology is being used for
something worthwhile a team in the UK
has developed the chalk creator v1 a 3d
printer that uses chocolate to create
intricate designs
printer is filled with tempered
chocolate using the same technique as
regular 3d printing it prints chocolate
treats based on the CAD diagram building
up the design layer by layer until a
three-dimensional chocolaty printed
treat is achieved yes having your own 3d
chocolate printer doesn't come cheap the
choc creator v1 will run you about 4,600
canadian dollars if you want a taste of
what 3d printed chocolate is like you
can save some money and purchase one of
the company's own chocolate designs and
it'll run you about twenty eight dollars
get the full stories at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category 5 TV news room is
researched by roy w Nash with
contributions by our community of yours
if you have a new story you think is
worthy of honor mention email newsroom
at category 5 TV for the category 5 TV
news room I am Sasha dramatis thanks
Sasha I don't know forty six hundred
dollars I know well I could sell it do I
eat in the year is it and then if i sell
chocolaty treats for twenty-five dollars
each instead of 28 hey I could wonder
could print out pamphlets on my new
brother printer this is good that's not
that bad so you get a like a chocolate
company that creates truffles and this
and that and now all of a sudden you can
walk in with a picture of your dog Tim
can create a 3d chocolate rendering I
think is a fabulous idea I think that's
pretty cool some from moon rocks too
excellent nice to see everybody in the
chat room a jameson 5517 i'm gonna see a
guest Harry great to see you mmm also
following us on on facebook at cat five
dot TV / facebook and a little tip for
you now you you follow us on Facebook I
do well done well done and what do you
notice about our Facebook page is that
we have a lot of behind-the-scenes stuff
thanks to our very own heather was here
with us too is behind the scenes right
now as we speak so you definitely want
to get over there too cat5 TV / facebook
like us and you'll have access to those
bonus behind-the-scenes kind of things
the question was asked on Twitter well
why does facebook can you not do google+
again yeah and and and we we are
building toward that and so i'll just
let you know that we are working toward
that that's a goal but it's not a
priority at this point and that's what
that comes from the fact that we are all
volunteers and that generally you know
I'm the guy who updates Facebook and
Twitter and so to add another social
platform becomes pretty pretty large
amount of work so so we do ask that you
know give us a like on facebook and and
follow us on Twitter as well good chance
to kind of learn about us behind the
scenes and catch some cool stuff before
it happens and things that you wouldn't
normally catch so chat room we welcome
your fewer questions right there and I
suppose you've got some email that we
can attempt I do have some email all
right so we have a question from Anders
martinson good guy yes we are looking at
HootSuite for that sorry I just oh but
HootSuite doesn't support the new
communities feature yet as far as I know
so hopefully hopefully all right so
Anders hello first of all thank you for
an insightful and educating and
entertaining show and for transforming
linux and open source related topics
from something regarded as difficult and
nerdy to something interesting and fun
it's something that is just interesting
a nerdy see awesome yeah back in 2006 I
took it upon myself to learn about Linux
6.1 hours uh such a six-point 10 in 2006
yeah October's release at that time I
had no interest in computers whatsoever
and as a result of my knowledge was
lacking and Linux was almost unknown to
me despite this I decided to give this
strange thing called Linux a try why
well let's say that a famous
redmond-based software company is to
thank for that come on Microsoft yeah
after her let's see after pretty rough
start getting the terms with this new
and somewhat simple looking operating
system I noticed a few differences the
hard drive was not always busy and the
rather old hardware performed amazing
which sparked my interest and I've never
turned back since very good now is there
any preferably easy way of cleaning up
the audio infrastructure in Linux and by
this I mean a mix of alsa pulseaudio OSS
and the intermix dependencies they have
hmm is there a script and application a
dedicated page on the web or is it a
matter of simply hacking away at various
tutorials and how to's in forums at the
mercy of one's own knowledge hoping not
to damage the system beyond repair right
I think it's just understanding what
each sort of system does right as Linux
kind of works as layer upon layer in a
lot of cases so you have a mixer that is
operating you know you look at Jack
audio subsystem for example it operates
in addition to your existing sound
system so you've got a sound system and
then use Jack to route the audio
channels and things like that so
understanding what everything does but
if you're having a specific audio
problem let us know and we can address
that but it's okay to have alsa
pulseaudio for example okay and it's
just how you have it configured but if
you've installed some things that have
broken audio then ya can sometimes be a
little bit problematic but hopefully
that's not happened mm-hmm Thank You
Anders I don't know if there are
particular you know if there's a
specific script that magically heals all
things audio and Linux but because your
honor gloom to I would presume having
started with ubuntu in 2006 you've stuck
with it so get into the ubuntu forums
and that would be a good spot for you to
ask your questions because that's a
community of other users of that
specific distribution of linux and of
course there you can be a little more
vague about your questions and and and
ask to the entire community and they can
say okay well what what does it do when
you type this into the terminal and then
you can come back and and so it's it's a
little more flexible than on air kind of
questions because we're here live so all
right but have fun with it yeah you're
afraid to mess around because it isn't
hard to back up your home folder re
install linux and then restore your home
folder we don't lose anything so there
you go we have another question from
como me and como me says just watching
the show still not live not installing
adobe flash for political reasons as
well as for the technical ones like
crappy software rather use I'd rather
use crap that is free then again this
way I don't have to stay up until 2am by
the way I think YouTube really works
with Nash not an html5 but actually in
flash I guess they implemented just the
necessary functions from the newer
versions of flash for YouTube to work is
that true I don't know I would have
thought that it would just be html5 but
I remember camo more however we say your
name
with regards to not wanting to install
flash and that's okay I mean so it's
political they say so apparently it's
against their political beliefs to
install flash here you go which I
understand to a degree but I have
mentioned it before sometimes there just
comes a point where if things don't work
you can bite the bullet a little bit and
be okay with some non free stuff on your
system yeah I hear you tick tock I think
about for example i believe it was last
week we're looking at virtual box and
the ability to use USB peripherals with
in virtualbox or how about this one flew
endo being able to listen to mp3 files
how many how many mp3 files do you have
and do you enjoy listening to them well
you're using proprietary codecs in order
to use those so do we just say okay well
I'm going to convert my entire library
to OGG which is not compatible with my
mp3 player unfortunately because it
would be nice if it was or doing to say
okay you know what I'll bite the bullet
and install something that's not free it
is free as in cost it's just not free as
in freedom right that's what we're
talking about political issues right
because we like freedom but there's no
that's a gray area it's yeah it's a bit
dodgy okay here is a comment from Robert
I'm sorry Robert gorsinski good
gorsinski yay okay it's for Robbie and
Eric but I'm gonna take this one all
right you take it all right I ended up
building my media server file server and
went with freenas over unraid for a few
reasons i found that unread was slower
at data transfer than freenas which
wouldn't be a problem for day-to-day use
but for the initial backup or restore it
would take a lot longer oh so also
freenas allows for more drives over
unraid unless you go for the paid
version of unraid which wouldn't be a
problem if the performance was better my
setup of freeness is using z
FS with the raid is it ready ready yeah
not right said giving me a total of
almost 11 tetra bytes of store terabytes
oh I was close sorry everybody in the
world of story timer kilo system which
is what idea i have you wrote it i have
six it time you wanna do this six six
six two terabyte hard drive okay thank
you x 2 TB that's again I'm sick today
you recommended back inside back in time
for backups does this allow to span the
backup over multiple drives thank you
and keep up the great work sure why not
i mean you can now create your mountain
points that way right first of all
unraid being slower why would I wouldn't
make that accusation i know some people
have said when I first was looking at it
that was slow and I didn't find that
I've stream HD video from him that's
great but have you looked at cache
drives for unraid because you're talking
about writing a large amount of data to
the drive so what's happening to you is
that when you and i know you went with
freenas but i want to be very very clear
about on right because i don't like
somebody saying something negative about
something that's not true because you
just haven't configured it the way i
would configure it in that case you are
writing a large amount of data in your
first backup so unraid now is putting
that on each of the hard drive spanning
across all the hard drives based on
whatever one has the most space but it's
also creating parity so that if one of
those hard drives crashes you can pull
out the hard drive and put it back and
put in a new one and you don't lose any
data so that parody takes a little bit
of time okay
a cash drive in your unraid box means
you've got say another two terabyte
driver dedicate one of your two terabyte
drives to a cash drive it doesn't have
to get to Tara but it could be a 500
gigabyte or something would be fine as
you're copying that back up to your
through your network there is no parity
being created so the copy operation is
as quick as just a data transfer then
during the idle cycles when you're not
being impacted by the speed it flushes
that stuff to the actual unraid array
and creates the parody during that
process so it happens more transparently
so the cash drag would have been a good
option for you so okay but not to say
that FS is not fantastic on on free
dance but I did find unraid was much
simpler in order to use varying capacity
drives I've even got a couple ide drives
in mind a whole bunch of SEO six or
seven SATA drives and they're all
intermixed in a fantastically well
together they play well excellent other
mention about a good guy stands NFS is
probably the most advanced file system
available very cool stuff unraid uses
reasor FS and it is a killer file system
I shouldn't say that that's terrible
that's terrible I'm sorry I'm very sorry
oh the but because it's reaser FS okay
that means when I pull a harddrive out
of unraid I can plug it into another
computer and I can read all the data
that's on that drive so in the case of a
catastrophic failure your whole array is
gone not that that's ever happened but
if it did you can take the drives out
and only have to recover the one that's
crashed right with a traditional raid
you've got to recover the whole set so
if it's six drives six times two
thousand dollars as opposed to one x two
thousand dollars for data recovery job
right right but also just the ability to
be able to pull a drive plug it into
another system and it operates you can
read the files that are on that drive
that is fantastic sorry I means it sorry
guys I don't know what I've a second I'm
just new I'm getting there okay here's a
question from sovereign entity I own a
netgear retinas and V Plus when setting
up the backup client back in time I
found that debian doesn't show the
network drives can you help with this
thank you you may do the remote if you
like just no comments okay how about my
many browsers or desktop are you online
right now sovereign entity are you in
the chaplain so you've got a readiness
and V Plus and you're not able to see
the network drives I would expect that
you know we need to create mount points
get a set up in your FS tab that would
be the first place that I would start
but don't see you in the chat room
unfortunately so I can't make a remote
connection could we hmm I don't want to
suggest go back over the show get into
search category 5 TV do a quick search
for SMB AFS all one word samba
filesystem sm BFFs
and you should be able to pull up some
episodes to talk about setting up a
samba share through your FS tab so that
it shows up as a hard drive on a mount
point and then you can hunt your backups
to that drive so hopefully that will
that will help you and I can do that as
well you know just go to our website
category 5 TV over on the right-hand
side is search our network let's see
what comes up SMB FPS here's hoping nice
and easy there you go creating an SMB FS
mounted connection using FS tab there
you go episode number 266 alright so as
simple as that that'll that'll teach you
how to do that so you can actually click
on play right next to view your question
cuz there's the question ok and all the
instructions are there so excellence
good stuff 466 oh that's category 5 TV
pardon me all right I have a question to
red line from North Carolina asks to red
line says is there a way to view episode
of episodes via Roku since they removed
the YouTube channel and if so how they
remove YouTube they removed the YouTube
channel that's crazy talk seriously says
to red line yes so this box that you
bought for your TV no longer supports
the biggest online video platform in the
world what thinkin anyways yeah I you
can get the we are on roku through the
blip um how the blip blip okay blip TV
mm-hmm okay thank you tell her you'll
find us excellent okay um let's see
here's a question about wire casts I was
watching her April twentieth show when
you were demonstrating a few things on
wire cast it was very in it was a very
informative video thank you
I had a question when you record two
discs I understand that you were
recording to your hard drive correct how
do you take that recording and transfer
to a DVD are the settings different or
can it be done and if so what are the
settings what are the settings or do I
have to convert the Wirecast file to
something different this was a from John
okay John yeah when you record two discs
from wire cash wire cast as a software
you can see here Sasha that we're
controlling all our cameras okay and
that's if you want to know more about it
or download a free trial cat five dot TV
/ Wirecast but with that software yes
you can record two discs which is how we
create the HD file for our on demand for
our RSS feeds all that stuff it's record
two discs but then yes in order to put
it on a DVD you have to convert it to
DVD format right so you create it in a
format that works really well for you in
our case I think we record to WMV and
the reason for that is a weird format i
know for me to be recording in we were
recording in h.264 m4v but what happens
is that if for some reason we have a
crash that smile becomes corrupt and so
you can't recover it with a WMV file for
us it was nice that if we did have a
crash which used to happen quite often
when we have the old server and
everything before we upgrade it that
file is still ok so we can edit it and
piece it together and fix the file ok so
you pick a file that works well for you
pick a format and equality that works
well and then use a piece of software to
convert it to vob files because DVD has
an audio audio underscore TS folder and
a video underscore TS folder pop a DVD
into your DVD rom drive in your computer
open it up not with your player but
through my computer or through nautilus
and linux
and browse the structure and you'll see
that that's the file for the folder
format and then within the video TS
folder there are vob files and a couple
of other kinds of files that control how
the DVD works some of them are menu and
all that consent so what I would do I'm
on Linux here so and i'm not sure John
what you're using is he didn't mention I
don't know okay so you know what it's
still going to be the same I'm going to
go into sound and video and run DVD DVD
video favorite creator system and I just
go video DVD which creates a video DVD
suitable for all DVD home players this
if you're on Linux folks this is
installable through synaptic package
manager through apt-get it's called DVD
and it's felt a little odd really e ve
de we can't live without it you simply
name your title so this would be my show
tell it what you want to do stop after
and show the the disk when you when it's
done you want to play the first title
when it's done you want to play the
previous title you want to play this one
again on a loop whatever usually it's
going to be the first option okay let me
simply add a video Brown's for it hit OK
and then it's going to allow you to
create the DVD structure now the reason
i want to show you this and it allows
you to create a menu to see if I preview
my menu there it is so this is that now
the DVD menu that is going to create
because a video file if you just take a
video file from Wirecast you're not
going to be able to just put that on a
DVD and hope that it plays on your TV
cuz it's not likely going to get audible
with your DVD player because it's not a
dvd-video discs right so using DVD de de
de you can create those discs but what's
nice about it
now this is because you didn't mention
your operating system okay you'll see
that there are also msi files available
Wow which means that this is also
available up until version 3.1 7 as a
windows installer so if you're on
Windows you can still use DVD now on
Linux it's fantastic it's open source
it's free and it's available to you so
check it out but on windows will put
links for all that in the show notes for
episode number 274 how's that there you
go John I'll post that in the that's the
windows version now the Linux version of
course is simply that's a different
length and is a long one raster SOUTHCOM
/ programís / DVD HTML so i'll post
those in media so much as well as in the
chaplain for you super yeah just we have
JP asking if anyone knows of a good
drive repair program for external drives
so you're looking to do data recovery or
what is it that you're hoping to
accomplish all right down are you hoping
to actually repair it in which case you
may need to download software from the
bride manufacturer but if the drive is
failed or is failing you're losing
access to the dr there's a couple things
to consider first of all if a drive the
pardon me you're contagious already if a
drive is failing then you don't want to
mess around with it you want to be
really really cautious and wary of that
there are pieces of software out there
that will say you know will recover your
data you know for thirty bucks with this
piece of software i'm sure you'll give
them your 30 bucks and you run it and it
gets halfway through and then it crashes
your whole hard drive because that hard
is on the verge of failure you really
want to be careful of that and I usually
recommend against it just because losing
all of your data is just that would just
be catastrophic so who that's it fun SD
cards and hard drives and any kind of
drive at all I do use photorec quite
often and it works fantastically well
you know sometimes if the batteries die
in your camera you lose access to your
camera card okay I'm regard is still
good you can still form at it it's not
damaged it's just you can't get the data
off but because the file system is
corrupt it's called logical corruption
as opposed to a physical failure so if
it's logical and then on linux i would
install photorec which is a part of the
test disk package in synaptic okay
that's fine okay test this test disk
alright we have time for another
question yeah three months is that time
oh yeah it's time all right I think I
thought I would mention that after
upgrading windows 8 from windows 7 I
find the performance is greatly improved
if you can get around having one having
to use the modern UI most of the stuff I
do however can be done via the desktop
and not the modern UI it feels like a
new machine even due to the performance
increases for the record I was one of
those people who said that windows 8 was
going to fail and if not for the modern
UI on a desktop I think it would be
excellent for a desktop without a touch
screen though I feel like the modern at
you I could be cumbersome and annoying
at times that's the truth this is coming
to us from Andrew Tolleson and the
comment kind of went out there when
somebody had asked me is it worth
upgrading to Windows 8 and the truth is
no it's not Andrew Tseng well I got a
performance boost by doing this
mm-hmm but there is compromised there
because you know I tend to with any
windows distribution you know major
release you kind of want to wait till
service pack one like that some of the
king's work too I already see because
you know we're starting to see support
calls coming in for windows 8 at this
point and there are major issues with
certain devices printers file sharing
over networks in a mixed environment
because Microsoft is no longer
supporting windows XP so in a business
environment if you have Windows XP on
some of your computers and you all of a
sudden introducing Windows 8 computer it
can be very very problematic so okay now
good guy is saying to try Classic Shell
and windows 8 would that help anything
that that is an like gives you more of
the windows 7 look and feel which is
cool but that's what I mean it's not so
much a usability thing yeah I don't like
the the new you know square thing where
it's really designed for touch screens
but the truth is is that there are still
some technical issues so even if you're
using the operating system you're using
the classic shell it looks like Windows
7 and operates like it but you still may
have problems with printers you may
still have comes with networking you may
still have some problems with this or
that okay got it well it's been fun nice
happening here nice being here made it
by yasmin coffin which is awesome yep I
just haven't been talking because I'm
scared of cops gonna come out I'll be
healed up by next week perfect cuz ya is
Christmas I was wonderful christmas
special we're hosting it here at
Christmas night seven o'clock eastern
time so same time as ever
but Christmas does fall on a Tuesday
we've got a wonderful assortment of
music and it's just gonna be a fun step
away from the technical format of the
show I turn to have a lot of great
prizes like that wonderful different
brother as well as the thermaltake and
the batteries for me co-op lines we've
got a great stuff mm-hmm is it hope you
can be here just bring your turkey to
your screen and watch us that's correct
have a great week everyone thanks nation
thanks Robbie
we hope you enjoy the show category five
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category five
TV and find out when you can watch live
and interact in the community chat room
category five is a production of
quantity digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
