welcome to category five technology TV
episode number five twenty four it's
great to have you here tonight Sasha and
I are gonna be picking up right where we
left off building her gaming PC we're
gonna be learning how to install a
motherboard throw the RAM on there and
even install the CPU cooler and the
graphics processing unit if you've ever
wanted to build your own computer this
is the series for you as she builds her
dream gaming computer this is category 5
technology TV and season 11 starts now
this is category 5 technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSD
category 5 TV streams live with
Telestream Wirecast and nimble streamer
tune in every week on roku cody and
other HLS video players for local show
times visit category 5 TV category 5 TV
is a member of the tech podcast network
if it's tech it's here cat 5 TV slash
TPN and the International Association of
internet broadcasters cat 5 TV slash ia
IB welcome to category 5 technology TV
I'm Robbie I'm Sasha
nice to see ya welcome to season 11
folks first and foremost want to say
hello welcome to all of our new viewers
especially if you're watching tonight on
channel 33 in the high desert in the
high desert it's nice to have you here
thanks for joining us and we're very
very excited to now be featured on your
your local station and really can't wait
to get to know you get to know each
other and hope that you enjoy what we
have here at category 5 technology TV if
you're brand new here if you've never
seen the show before what this is is a
tech broadcast where you know what we
are just here to have fun to show you
some of the cool tech that is available
right now
we love Linux we love open source so
we've got ways for you to save money by
looking at some alternative programs
alternative pieces of hardware like
Raspberry Pi if you're into tinkering if
you want to do it yourself a little bit
we're gonna get into some of that this
season as well so we've got a lot of fun
stuff planned for you all so hello to
those of you who have found us on the
Internet
again we're on roku we're on cody we're
on plex we're obviously on youtube we've
got our own website category 5 TV so
however you found us it's so nice to
have you here
Sasha we have got another Award as well
yes a lot happens in a couple of weeks
oh we have made it to the top 100 tech
YouTube channels for tech lovers yes
at that list actually comes to us from
feed spot and you can read the list at
cap five dot TV slash feed spot go us
yeah go you it's all your fault you've
been watching this stuff and having fun
whoops and we're on the top 100 how do
you like that it's like a global list so
very very honored and proud of that last
week as you know was our tenth
anniversary show this kicks off our
season 11 right now this week we never
take a break so hope you'll love it
because we are gonna be here with you
every single week incidentally now just
to kind of get into the tech a little
bit some of the things that you may
encounter as an end user I really hit it
hard last week as far as feeling like
that end user our studio laptop uses
Windows 10 I got here early mmm-hmm for
episode number five 23 because it's our
tenth anniversary we've got to get
everything set up we had a lot of things
to do and fired up the laptop for the
first time since the previous week's
show right Windows 10 decided hey it's
time to update itself no problem right
we're used to that it happens every
Tuesday they've got their updates kind
of thing or is first Tuesday of the
month or however it works I don't know
it's a Tuesday thing so we fire it up on
a Wednesday morning guess what happens
it starts running these updates so while
I'm supposed to be setting things up on
the laptop instead I've got the blue
screen that says do not turn off your
computer please wait while Windows
updates things and I waited
and whatever and it was a busy day folks
I'll just tell you right up straight
honest season 10 finale show was a busy
day it was a busy day it was a rockin
day so I was thrilled as Microsoft
noticed with my tweets I was thrilled
that that they were doing this to me and
then when it was finished I thought yeah
I can finally get my work done and their
update broke my bootloader so I can't
even turn on the laptop anymore Oh
y-yeah so this is the the day of the
anniversary show so anyway so all that
to say it happened to me it really did
and we've got ways around this so what I
did is I created what's called a rescue
tux boot USB flash drive you can
download it online we've got the link
below for you rescue tux is a flavor of
Linux that is built to help you fix
computers what it does is it detects by
booting from that USB flash drive it
detects the installed operating systems
on the computer it forget it just
ignores the bootloader altogether
because my bootloader is now botched and
it boots up the computer anyway so now
using a USB flash drive that has Linux
on it I'm able to boot into Microsoft
Windows 10 Thank You Raska tux Thank You
Linux once again you win and Windows 10
that's not not so much slight linux bias
a slight one hey we've got to take a
really really quick commercial break
session when we come back we're gonna
get into this sasha is building her own
gaming stick around we're gonna talk all
about it we're gonna get that
motherboard installed right after this
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand new beautiful website
are you alright you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play
you're supposed to act
okay I'm building a really cool website
are you building a really cool website
just because Jeff is confused doesn't
mean you have to be visit cap five dot
TV slash DreamHost
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host welcome back this is category
five technology TV nice to have you here
tonight we're getting into part seven of
sasha builds her own gaming pc for days
which is an absolute surprise hey i
mentioned last week was our tenth
anniversary show so much fun oh my gosh
so much fun Steve in the live audience
Dave was here in the live audience I
went to all this effort to hide
everything yeah I actually hid it behind
you can't see it here tonight but we've
got a green screen here so our virtual
set is thanks to a green screen I hid
everything behind that yes and bless her
heart Gary Webb came to join us I love
her too and the most hilarious thing
happened because the the first thing out
of her mouth was I've been checking out
the show love what you guys are up to
like for example building a sweet gaming
rig and Dave goes what I I watched bits
and pieces of that show of you and Sasha
building a gaming thing computer
don't know what she's talking about so
what else have you caught on the show
it's been interesting
well exact okay so here's the thing and
Dave caught himself real fast he knew
that it was a surprise and the thing is
it's because I've been oddly quiet about
the show usually I'd go home and I like
tell him all about what we talked about
and everything and I've just been like
just don't watch it like you did not be
part of my life right so he was in the
audience and good guy that he is he's
like mMmmm pretending he didn't hear and
didn't understand like me on Christmas
morning when I'm sure I know what it is
that I'm about to unwrap but I'm like oh
yeah so many of the viewers know I ride
my bike from work to the studio and it
usually takes me about 35 40 minutes to
ride my bike and today it was raining
rain in the forecast so dave says to me
nice as can be he's like well it's
supposed to rain
I'll Drive you to the studio but I'm
gonna be busy so I can't come in to
watch and that's how I know he knows
because there is no way he wouldn't have
just it happened folks oh okay surprise
is kind of out of the bag dave has an
inkling that he's probably getting
something like a sweet gaming rig but
here's the thing now you haven't been
following the series this is part 7 you
can go to cap 5 dot TV slash CPU 2017
and if you go there you're gonna be able
to catch the first six parts right
you're gonna see how we selected the
hardware you're gonna see why we select
it you're gonna see when even unboxing
all the pieces and then Sasha getting it
to this point last well two weeks ago
when you started assembling the computer
itself so we've got a really sweet
gaming rig it's gonna have Linux on it
an open-source operating system it's
gonna have steam it's gonna have VR
capabilities to be future ready we've
already installed an m2 on the
motherboard are you ready to get into it
I totally am ready tonight what I want
to achieve is start assembling the
internal components so we've got the
motherboard we've got all this stuff
you're gonna need to move your stuff off
of the mother
box there let's look at what we actually
have here I'm just gonna set that aside
and right here so here is the
motherboard now I just kind of put it
back into the box after a couple weeks
ago part six so that everything would be
kept together I love this board there it
is and not beautiful this is the hero 8
from a soos supreme effects supreme
awesomeness it does look pretty sharp
we've already put the CPU on there we
did that on part 6 ok so a couple of
things here first of all I want to know
what they've included in the box because
I want to know if there are things like
provided screws things like that because
the screws that I have in my tool chest
are all silver like you know the silver
screws so because this is a really sweet
black rig with lights and everything if
I have some black screws that'll be
great
so what do we got we've got some SATA
cables for hard drives which we're not
going to need right now we've got an SLI
adapter for video cards we've got more
SATA cables and they provided lots of
SATA cables and zip ties zip ties but
that's it ok ok so no screws provided
there so let's get into another box here
there we go we're just basically picking
it up exactly where we left off two
weeks ago so ok now one of the things
that we noticed a couple weeks ago sash
is that we've got a couple of drive bays
here and when I pulled this out I did
notice that there is a satchel of screws
and things yes thermaltake has thought
about it with their case and provided a
bunch of screws and stuff so we're gonna
be able to use proper good-looking
screws to put the motherboard into the
chassis ok so you ready to do it I am ok
ok we have to install the motherboard we
have to install the cooling system all
that I've got some thermal paste and
before we actually set this up we got a
message from C 128 D on YouTube
I'm going to read this we can paraphrase
some degree I Love You Man
C 128 D is a longtime viewer on YouTube
and always gives us heck whenever we
mess up now full disclosure here I'm not
a professional gaming rig developer and
neither is Sascha truth be told
truth be told but what we do know we
share and we're gonna have fun doing it
okay so there's three points in this and
I will tell you quickly what they are
number one
rubbing alcohol and isopropyl alcohol
are two different products okay my
mistake so rubbing alcohol is not the
same as isopropyl petroleum in it which
is oil which will not be good okay don't
listen to Robbie use isopropyl alcohol
okay okay number two - I was installing
number two Phillips head screws with a
number zero Phillips bit screwdriver OC
120 ad you are getting so particular
yeah way to go this just goes to show
that HD cameras are gonna be the death
of us yeah because they can call us on
things like which screwdriver we used
like add 10 pounds that's like smaller
oh yeah even this is a number one oh
okay but just for you see 120 ad I
pulled this out of the the that's a
number this is like a number 10 no this
is like a I don't know I don't know my
numbers I'm a computer geek yeah number
two
should it be number two yes okay that's
okay
they've edge to them thank you Third
Point the point Artic silver is a poor
choice for a long term installation come
on now you're getting picky which comes
directly from Erik silver no okay
I've been using this stuff for years my
man okay arctic silver this is a thermal
compound I'm sure maybe there are better
thermal compounds in the universe I'm
sure there there are a variety of
thermal compounds here's the trace one
works really perhaps we could have gone
with a different one this one is going
to be the one this is the one because
it's here and it works yeah
and at some point I may have to clean it
off and reapply it and at that point I
will reapply it with something either
that or something else yeah that's cool
I guess this will be the gauge so see
128 DS argument is that the thermal
compound which is the connector between
the CPU the central processing unit the
chip we've learned all about this on
part 6 so make sure you go back at cat5
dot TV slash CPU 2017 it was actually a
tricky little fourth point oh okay the
power supply draws air from the bottom
and expels it out the rear not that's
good
let's get to the power supply but first
with the thermal compound this is the
connector for o2 make sure that there's
a thermal connection between the
processor and the heatsink this okay
okay so if this fails you it's gonna go
all crusty and you can wash it off with
isopropyl alcohol thank you
that's the one okay so that will get it
done okay so the final point this was a
semantic thing this was my own Freudian
slip where I had said that it's going to
blow air at the bottom it is not it's
going to pull it see how there's this
particular computer has this case has a
vent here with a cover to catch any dust
that's coming in it's going to pull air
in and out the back so it's coming in
from the floor and out the back of the
computer that's fine okay so just a
semantic thing so that's cool okay
you're ready to do this I am alright so
first of all now I'm gonna get right in
here with a close-up shot for you okay
in our computer case we've got these
screw heads here to screw into you'll
see also that we've got these kind of
what do you call these like grommets or
you know they they are for the cables so
that you can hide all the cables this is
a fantastic case this is where the power
supply is so our power supply cables are
going to come up through here we've got
all of these all over the place nice
yeah so the motherboard is going to go
right here so what you need to do we're
just going to kind of get this cable out
of the way and you need to set the
motherboard in in such a way that it is
going to be up against this guy that
we installed last week you remember that
right I do a couple weeks ago okay okay
so let's get right in there you ready
for it well I think now we have grounded
ourselves and so we don't have to worry
about static electricity now you're
looking at this show the viewers at home
what we've got here so this is the the
back header okay that's the part that
needs to show up the back it needs to
line up yeah okay all right so you you
do that I've got a camera here so that
we can get a nice back shot I just throw
her in here yeah and you kind of you
don't want to scrape it across the the
bottom you want to put it in there right
at the right so I am going to get this
and we also want to make sure that this
you you saw those schools yeah the screw
holes for lack of a better term we need
to make sure that they line up with the
motherboard as well there aren't any
extraneous ones Oh Turk at the bottom of
the motherboard is right okay okay so
the way that we're gonna do that
Sasha is just kind of get in here and
can I touch it no this is all you this
but we're just gonna kind of look at the
bottom of the motherboard but apart me
the bottom of the case and look at where
the screw holes are and we just kind of
line those up visually I can see the
holes in the motherboard here and I know
that yeah those are all already pre
placed in the correct spots so we don't
have to worry about that right and you
were right on the right track here let's
get that out of the way and then just
put that right in there and are they
lined up yeah looks pretty good okay
pretty close pretty close
so you you go at it so that you can show
them okay here see the screw hole yeah
so okay yeah okay so we've got screw
holes all over the motherboard that are
gonna connect in and we need to make
sure that those are nicely lined up so
we can screw those in so we'll have to
do a little bit of pushing well you kind
of do one corner and then shimmy it a
little bit and then do the next let's
get into our bag of screws that
thermaltake blessed us with so what are
you gonna do first with your gaming rig
any ideas no ideas what are you into do
you guys like shooters you like I white
Sims I like like that oh I guess the
shooters to be honest you're more than
anything I don't like light guns too
much hmm
okay so these these bad boys so we need
to make sure that we get the right ones
so this guy here has a really really
thick threading that's not the right one
for the motherboard we need a nice thin
threading there it is you're gonna know
because it's only only one type is gonna
go in but you don't want to cross thread
it you don't want to strip it okay so
should be magnetic I hope okay now which
one should which one do you suggest they
start with is it I would start in like a
corner so right back there is good okay
back to do you remember where the m2 is
yeah so this guy here okay it's probably
a good good starting place and that will
hold the board back for you I'm kinda
nervous you're nervous yeah just be
careful that you don't like let the
screwdriver go and accidentally misfire
don't tighten it right up no it needs to
be loose oops it needs to be loose
because we need to be able to shimmy
that board once it's already in I think
so now start with the next one okay and
we're just gonna kind of go at it so
here you go get her get her done sash
right so just right over here
yeah okay yeah each one you need my help
I'm not allowed to help you I don't know
what Sasha's doing this all by yourself
well it doesn't seem to it's not really
lined up is it no if I push it is it
going in I think so yeah yeah that's not
so bad
all right great okay next up here's
another screw alright oh the gratuitous
close-up shots okay so you're pushing
kind of toward the back of the computer
with your hand I see any left hand doing
that you got this you're like a pro
that's right have you done this before
I once built a pie nice I baked a pie
you'll notice that I put the cover back
on the CPU that's just to keep it clean
we cleaned it last week and so that's
that one's not it's nice no okay okay so
we need to make sure that everything is
yeah everything looks nice and snug back
here so you're doing good okay so here's
what needs to happen anything this is a
full body workout this
okay I think that's better some good TV
right there folks all right she said do
we need more than three screws in here
okay so let's can I give you a hand just
for ya yeah I'm gonna get in there here
you be you be camera folk is that a term
it is now I just made it up okay so
let's make sure that ya see that so I'm
just gonna give it some elbow right
there get that lined up I definitely did
the difficult ones to start
oh absolutely no you got started for
sure okay we got another one down over
here and the only reason I'm helping out
here sash obviously knows what she's
doing I am just helping out for the sake
of time as drop a screw this is not a
three-hour special this is oh my
goodness let's try this yeah Kingston
always comes to the rescue
okay I I know that you're learning Tech
Sasha but I just got to say you're
holding the camera upside down oh all
right let's get in here oh this is not
magnetic that's what's happening you
know what
sorry c128 dee this is just a better
screwdriver all round I can always
tighten it up with the bigger one so
we're gonna blame it on the screwdriver
Sanj purse okay one more
okay now is this starting to look like a
computer session yes it certainly is
man I like this motherboard and I can
say that I've never said that in my life
I like this motherboard how people are
gonna come over to our place I'm like so
check out Dave's motherboard what is
some motherboard it's the mother of all
boards okay so now I've got those in and
I'm just gonna get these nice and snug
so just gonna get in there just tighten
them up now that they're all in
make sure there we go sweet Oh Sasha
looks like a computer now okay so what
do you think we're gonna do next we are
going to put the heatsink on mmm
install the RAM I would suggest that we
start with the littler stuff let's start
with the the RAM the okay cables for the
well maybe not the cables definitely
install the RAM first because the RAM
let's get in here okay these are all
tighten down our RAM modules are gonna
go right here so if I install the
heatsink first it's gonna be this big
honkin thing right here in my way as I'm
trying to install the RAM modules so
we're just kind of kind of changed the
order okay show me the RAM module over
there so we have kingston ddr4 ram this
stuff is sweet it's HyperX fury so it's
nice fast gaming Ram and I'm really
really hoping it's gonna fire up on this
motherboard I was looking at them at the
motherboards manual so I'll just say
right now I was looking at the manual
and they said that it it only wants to
take 8 gig Sims wait hold on I'm a
little old-school here and sometimes
forget that I'm in 2017 early Ram
modules say circa 1980s into the early
90s had one row of electrical contacts
and were called Simms
single inline memory modules now today
Ram modules including the ones that
we're installing here tonight have two
rows of contacts or dual inline memory
modules also called dims so every time I
say Simms I mean dims and I'm only
showing you that the commodore shirt
that I'm wearing is from the same era
when I learned to build computers I was
looking at the manual and they said that
it it only wants to take 8 gig Sims ah
but then I'm like how is that possible
if it takes 64 gigs of RAM and there's
only five slots so these are 16 gigs
Sims each so 32 gigs together and we are
installing ddr4 2666 Ram
and I'm really hoping that's gonna fire
up it's gonna fit - yeah okay
I can open packaging for you okay so can
I just for the sake of the demonstration
can I install the first one certainly I
want to show you how to put ran into
your computer here you go I'm gonna let
you kind of get that close-up shot here
so the there are only two modules here
and the reason sasha that i did two 16
gig sims which again really hoping
you're gonna fire up on this motherboard
these are beautiful sims the Kingston
HyperX fury Ram as you know is really
really good and it also has built-in
heat sinks so sinks are gonna keep that
RAM cool when it's running super fast
okay the reason I did two 16 gigs is
because the motherboard claims that
it'll take up to 64 so that's 32 gigs if
we go in the first two slots but then we
can add two more 32 games right maximum
out of your computer so we need to
determine which is dim zero or the first
one and here we see dim a one I'm gonna
get right in here it says dim a one
let's see if I can show you that and a
two so that's our first two DIMM slots
so I want to install in a 1 and a 2 or
pardon me no I want to do a 1 and B 1
and then I'll do a 2 and B 2 the next
time if we wanted to add any more RAM
okay I'll give you that
okay now Sasha get in here nice and nice
and close so there's a pin here right
you see that yes this this is where the
pin that you see there on the
motherboard is going to line up okay it
makes sure that you don't put it in the
wrong way because those two things are
not going to line up if you have it
backwards right if I turn it around now
you see that it lines up perfectly
excellent
so I'm gonna start with with b1 okay
actually color coded so I've got black
and gray so I'm actually going to skip
one so b1 is here and I'm just going to
kind of put it in an angle like this
yeah and then very carefully
oh and pardon me I've got to open these
up first okay
Oh Oh that one doesn't okay this one's a
little different so I'm gonna go from
this side okay and then feed it down in
and you'll see that kind of line up now
push down I'll let her click there it is
okay so that's now in the motherboard
it's installed okay it's good to go so
we're gonna open up this side here for
you okay and give you a ram module go
for it just gonna go exactly the same
way and it's gonna go in here yes okay I
put it in this side first other side
other side yeah just because of the way
that this one's set up it doesn't open
on both sides okay and just make sure
you rock side to side not front to back
so that you don't break the the
connectors if that makes sense
there you go okay this was nice and snug
I believe so and then we just kind of
grab our finger here and just push right
here to make sure now it's locked and
just kind of feel that it is indeed
lockdown here we go ready to go okay so
next up we've got the CPU cooler to
install and we've got to get power going
into this thing right plus we've got the
graphics processing unit which is a
sweet one from Nvidia stick around we're
gonna be installing those right after
this
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from lynda.com
through our special link at cat5 dot TV
slash Lynda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning we'll give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat 5 dot TV slash Linda
welcome back this is category five
technology TV and tonight is part seven
of our series
where sasha is actually building a
gaming rig that's a full gaming computer
so if you've never done anything like
this we're learning a lot of stuff now
if you're just coming into this at
Episode seven make sure you go back you
can go to cap five dot TV slash CPU 2017
you're gonna be able to see those past
six episodes and everything to come
alright so next up we've got the RAM and
we've got the motherboard everything is
looking good we gotta get that CPU
cooling system right little something
like this right okay okay so put that
right there it's got a big old 120
millimeter fan now we want this to blow
over the the cooler okay so the way that
we're gonna make sure that that happens
and I apologize for having to lean
forward to get the camera but there is a
very very tiny arrow oh that tells you
which direction which direction the air
is gonna blow right yeah so that's we
want that pointed at the cooler because
it's going to blow that cool air over
top of the the fins of this guy that
makes sense and make it cool down your
CPU alright so this particular one sorry
I don't mean to keep stepping on you no
that's okay this particular one though
sash has a couple of clips every CPU
coolers just a little bit different we
got a big one to keep this nice and cool
for you a lot of the purchasing
decisions were made just to make this
thing future-ready make sure that it
runs cool make sure it runs fast so that
you don't have to go out and upgrade it
you know a year from now two years from
now five years from now thank you for
that yeah so this so we're gonna look at
that observe that arrow and these guys
can I do it once and let me show you how
it's done
so again this is just specific to this
particular fan these kind of clip on
there you see that so it goes into where
the screw holes are and clips on then
that's going to clip on to the fins of
this fan oh right oh okay goes just kind
of like that there you go okay pretty
simple and then the other side same deal
same deal
right on yeah I gotta let you do it this
is your thing there see she did it folks
there we go I had nothing to do with it
other than just kind of standing here
that's it so the fan is on we've
observed the the arrow that says it's
it's going to blow this way so it's
going to be blowing over these fins and
that's going to keep your computer nice
and cool that's CPU super very cool now
I can see you know I'm gonna lower it
down just a little bit because we've got
quite a bit of air blowing out over the
top here right so and that's my fault
I'm just gonna kind of release that and
we're gonna move that down I want to
make sure that this is done completely
you know as correctly as we can being
that we're not system builders or
anything like that but we won't do the
best job that we can
yes yeah so here we go does the
styrofoam need to stay on it aside it's
just to keep it clean Sasha okay because
as soon as I if I accidentally touch
that then I've basically created a like
a finger grease I layer on the contact
that's right it's keeping your computer
cool so we don't want to do that so I'm
keeping it on there just for safety sake
okay so we don't want to go through that
problem come on bad boy that makes sense
yeah there we go so that just gets rid
of that extra space up at the top I'll
show you what the bottom looks like okay
oh and it's got a sticker on it we could
have done it all this all this time we
could have lost the foam yeah and all
cautious and stuff yeah
please peel off label before you use it
it says that's good advice
all right sash let's get this car this
guy off of here again oh it goes okay
all right that's just the protective
coating the cover that came with the
motherboard right that kept our CPU nice
and clean through this whole process now
we've got our thermal paste which is
just like toothpaste you want to pull
the cap off
scared okay this is not that bad not
okay okay so it's it's a thermal
compound that you're gonna squirt into
the very middle of that CPU write down
about the size of a pea a little bit
larger Oh golly okay let's go for it
right in the middle a bit more a bit
more more MORE great okay okay
does it matter that I just do yeah try
to keep it as even as possible so that
is our thermal compound the reason that
we're doing it like that sash is because
as soon as we clamp down the CPU cooler
it's going to squish that down oh it's
going to make it so that it's it's a
good thermal contact okay so I guess our
final step here is to remove the sticker
from the bottom of this right and then
we mount it to the motherboard okay
we'll just go ahead and take that
sticker off we just don't want to touch
the contact there okay look at that all
right so there are two little flippy
floppies that's the technical term folks
Lippe flappy's and those are going to
connect into this which we installed on
part six of the series right okay so if
it goes on it can be messy
okay thermal compound so you're gonna do
this so in hindsight we could have test
it we could have practiced without the
thermal compound but you want me to do
this more would you be able to get
writing you know what just get right in
there and I'm gonna show you what I'm
gonna do here sash it's upside-down okay
so this flippy-floppy yeah right that's
what we've named them is going to clip
on to this guy right here on the this
mounting apparatus of what's called
right okay and then on the other side
we're going to clip the other
flippy-floppy
on to the other side but we got to start
with one side first we're not gonna do
both at the same time okay so I'm gonna
get right in here
gonna be hard to film something this
tight folks we're gonna do our best
let's see what can you see well we can
see nothing yeah it's all good it's all
good and before I do that one last thing
I'm just looking at the headers here so
there's a chassis fan header I want to
see where the CPU fan is going to
connect there's another chassis fan
header to do water pump CPU fan so the
CPU fan plugs in over here okay so
definitely that's a good place to have
that cable okay that's where it's gonna
lie and then it's going to go that way
all right so here we go going down on
the CPU sash okay feel good almost there
okay it might purposely try to make your
nervous guys and one is on ok see that
one was on so now I'm gonna get over to
this side here and this is gonna be the
tough one
is that motherboard has that Finn there
that's kind of getting in my way I know
you folks can't see this but see that
Finn
it's getting in the way of the CPU
cooling mounting so that's a bit of a
problem for us see that so I may have to
turn that around which is going to be a
problem as well because the fan is
blowing this way and out the back so I
may just have to see if I can get that
on there which is not liking this this
bezel okay I'm going to show you what it
looks like when I pull that up oh it is
messy yeah it is messy okay so can you
guys see that this guy here is in the
way of that guy there so what we're
gonna do we're gonna flip this around
problem-solving is part of building a
computer and and troubleshooting and
realizing hey there are other ways to do
things big part of it is also patience
Asha okay because you need to be really
really patient when you're doing this
kind of thing because you don't want to
make a mistake that's going to cause
much damage problems so what I can
actually do here the solution for me is
I want to put the fan on the other side
so that I can turn this around
okay so I'm gonna try going the other
direction and that is the solution
that's going to work so now if you guys
can see that
I can get right in there
and she's clipped they're perfect okay
so flipping it around was the answer you
know but and originally I thought oh
that's gonna be problem because the fan
is blowing this way but then I realized
well we install the fan we can put it on
the other side okay no problem so we're
gonna do that I'm gonna mount this on
the other side of the CPU cooler just
like we did Oh perfect how's that
looking it looks great we're gonna need
that rubbing alcohol just get all my
fingerprints off I hate Belted myself
really yeah what's all these man thumb
prints I'm just pitching in just
pitching in believe me he'll be very
happy when he sees the episode tada
there you go sorry there you go so
that's on that's clipped on looks
beautiful so what this is doing this is
drawing heat away from everything in
here it's pulling it across the the RAM
here yes blowing it out over top of this
cooling system and then blowing it out
the back with this other 120 millimeter
fan beautiful that was intense
and that's that it's not that bad though
way no so we still need to do a fair bit
of wiring we need to get you know that
we're not gonna be able to get to the
cabling today no ill not just are
running short on time so what we still
need to do is we need to get the power
coming from the power supply which we
installed on part six we're gonna get
that into the motherboard we're gonna
get it into the other peripherals but
first we also need that graphics
processing unit so if we can grab this
let's see what this bad boy looks like
so what do we have here this is a and I
wonder what this box looks like on a
virtual reality set because it's green
so this is an 8 gigabyte GD gddr5
overclock addition of the geforce gtx
1070 from nvidia this is anna soos card
so it's high-end very very good it's
ready for VR it's got tons of HDMI ports
and DisplayPort and everything else so
it's ready for you sound good I am ready
for it there we go alright let's put it
in the box and this is really we're
getting there we've got pretty much
everything installed so this is what the
card looks like Sascha so huge so a
couple of things about this now we've
got 2 DisplayPort to HDMI and a DVI
output they're all covered by these
covers to keep the dust out keep it
clean we've got two giant fans going
over the heatsink switch I can see there
that are nicely hidden underneath of
there looks really beautiful we've got
huge heat pipes I don't know if you
folks can see that oh look at those
pipes now there's a couple of things
about this now we've got PCI Express
right x16 which we're gonna pull this
protective cover off because that's just
there for shipping and transport then
we've got power here flow PCI Express
power input because this card it takes
more power than what the PCI Express bus
can provide right so if you plug
everything in you fire it up and you're
finding that it's not booting or you're
not getting any video you probably
forgot the power adapter to go into
there so that comes from the power
supply and goes into the PCI Express
power input for the graphics card okay
so talking huge sash this is to the
depth of 2 standard video cards okay
so that means we're going to have to
first of all plot at which PCI Express
port we're gonna put it in now obviously
it's not going to go in the one over
here I'm gonna get in a little bit
tighter for you so that you can see you
grab that and so it's not going to go
here we're not gonna put it here because
that's going to take up three slots
you'll see that on this motherboard
they've been smart they've planned for
it we've got a PCI Express x16 and a
blank spot here because they've planned
that you've got
nice thick gaming graphics card there so
that's the one we're gonna go into so we
need to look at this and see that we
need to remove one and two screws here
to get okay I'll just start these with
my itty-bitty screwdriver okay yeah I'll
let you take over okay this is your
thing Dave she's doing it she's doing
the build man I'm just helping out okay
that's right and then just pull those
protective covers off oh this way okay
yeah there we have it so now our video
card is gonna go into the slot okay
ready for it now you've done this with
RAM you know exactly what you're doing
oh yeah this is gonna go into this x16
right here okay and that's already open
so we can see that if you ever need to
change your BIOS battery guess what
you're gonna have to take out your video
card okay this is our tea
yeah that's open so you see that folks
Asha was smart there make sure that
that's open because we Robbie tends to
forget these little minor details mists
so yeah you just kind of push her down
and locks in yeah and then use your
finger to get into that thing that was
unlocked
and make sure that that is now clipped
and locked yes yes so now screw it back
in right where the screws came out of
and there you go folks look at that so
we've got two DisplayPort to HDMI and a
DVI all coming off of the same graphics
card ready for VR I feel nervous why are
you doing this she's doing it she's got
this it's gonna be a sweet gaming rig
folks if you've got any suggestions for
you a for Sasha we'd love to hear them
first of all because we're so close to
being ready with this gaming rig we're
going to have to start selecting
software we know that we want
sonot and steam so the real deciding
thing as far as you know which linux
distro are we gonna go with Sasha it
really boils down to which one is going
to play steam games really really well
so if you've got any suggestions if
you've already tried this out on your
own and you know what is great for steam
or video games virtual reality and so on
hey get on to our community forum go to
forum dot category-five dot TV and
submit your post there or better yet get
right into the particular forum thread
that has to do with this build at cat5
dot TV slash cpu 2017 just like that so
we got some wiring to do still Sasha but
essentially there you go there's your
gaming rig dave is gonna be thrilled
happy so far now you've been building
this thing from scratch
yes have you found the process because
there's a lot of people that are
watching tonight that have thought hey
if you're really cool to build my own
computer but it looks really daunting I
don't know where to start it is a series
that's taking a write true it's like
using really tiny screwdrivers and yeah
it's actually really cool to be a part
of this like to actually get in there I
would have been petrified to do it alone
but you know what if I knew that I could
watch me future me doing I don't know
yeah perhaps watching this video will
give some confidence and and so that you
know kind of what to expect every
computer's a little bit different but
you can get our product list the
hardware that we've purchased for this
particular rig at cat5 dot TV slash cpu
2017 it's all listed there and how we
decided to get those so all right we've
got to take a real quick break Sasha and
when we come back I know you're ready
with with the news so we're just going
to fade to black and come right back and
then it's all you super here are the
stories were covering this week in the
category 5 TV newsroom baboon 2 is
dropping the 32 bit eye
unfortunately some people still use
Internet Explorer and yet another
serious exploit has been found
Dyson plans to release a radical
electric car in 2020 and equifax that's
the teams have a grasp on security these
stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere whether you shop on
think geek gear vest B&amp;H photo video
eBay or Amazon or even if you want a
free trial of audible you'll find the
best deals and support the shows we
produce by simply visiting the shopping
sites you already frequent by using the
links on our website visit category 5 TV
slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching this is the
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux links if you were hoping to
download a boon to 17 point 10 32-bit
come its release next month we've got
some bad news to give you a boon to is
dropping 32-bit builds of a boon to
desktop entirely as of a boon to 17
point 10 Canonical's dmitry Gianluca has
asked the boon to release team to action
a proposal he put forth earlier in the
development cycle in which he argued
that the i30 i 386 builds of a boon to
desktop ok 32-bit builds should no
longer be produced no changes are being
made to other builds of ubuntu 17 point
10 such as minimal install ISOs or the
net install option and this news does
not mean a boon to won't run on 32-bit
simply that you won't be able to
download a premade desktop ISO image for
it the 32-bit a boon to archive is not
going anywhere either if you're
currently running a 32-bit version of
Ubuntu you can continue to upgrade to
new releases as normal this change also
does not affect the boon to flavors such
as zip unto a boon to Mattel
a boon to budgie and at all they'll be
free to make their own decisions about
what they support and there's always a
point to 16.04 LTS which is supported
until 2021 and readily available as a
32-bit image here's a question I have
yeah
who would want to download you know the
whole 32-bit versus 64-bit argument the
32-bit kernel is anything up until three
three and a half gigs of RAM you've
refined to run a 32-bit OS there was a
time years ago when it was really hard
to get a 64-bit OS right but what does
it mean it means that you your computer
can run faster means it can do more
operations at any given time it means
that you can have more RAM like we're
putting 32 gigs of RAM in a computer for
you and that could not happen on a
32-bit operating system okay it has to
be 64-bit so what's this whole a boon to
thing a boon to of course is a flavor of
Linux Linux is an alternative to
Microsoft Windows it's an alternative to
Mac OS and it is a free operating system
for your computer so thanks to that
you've got bleeding edge technology and
now they're saying hey here's our free
OS and we're keeping up with the times
we're dropping the 32-bit ISO which is
the downloadable disk that you can
install on your computer right and
instead we're pushing you to have to
install the 64-bit so that means no more
older hardware that doesn't support
64-bit because when you say I 386 32-bit
those are the old computers so if you've
got an old 40 60 X 2 you're not going to
be able to install the ISO Ubuntu any
longer because it's passe it's old
technology 64-bit is the way to go and
that's what they're pushing for but good
note that if you already have 32-bit
Linux installed you can upgrade right
yet the latest and greatest you just
have to you have to get the Installer
from the older version and then upgrade
from there right fine that's all right
cause you already have it so you're ok
if you're curious about Ubuntu if you're
curious about
hey get on to our website category five
dot TV click on contact us there's a way
to actually reach out to the show we'd
love to field your questions excellent
thank you I'll just kind of slide over
here you need to be a BIST until I need
it again there's a bug in the most
current version of Internet Explorer's
at least the addresses search search
terms or any other text typed into the
address bar the bug allows any currently
visited website to view any text entered
into the address bar as soon as the user
hits enter the technique can expose
sensitive information a user didn't
intend to be viewed by remote websites
including the web addresses address the
user is about to visit the hack can also
expose search queries since ie allows
them to be typed into the address bar
and then retrieved from Bing or other
search services this weakness may allow
malicious sites to view information the
user presumes was private people should
strongly consider using Google Chrome
months Mozilla Firefox or another nine
non-iea Oh sir that's a huge scary deal
goes without saying at this point don't
use internet explorer if you bring up
that e that blue e any longer if that's
what you're using to surf the web you're
doing it wrong please listen to me when
I say start using Chrome start using
Firefox start using a more modern
browser internet internet explorer is
done right and like windows XP it's not
safe to use anymore some would say ever
was right now so do they do they try and
push themselves or are they just a
default sorta did they realize the users
yeah well does it come free does it come
pre-loaded on computers Internet
Explorer older computers yes okay
Windows 7 had Internet Explorer
pre-installed right now if you're on
Windows 10 it comes with a program
called edge Microsoft edge which is
their replacement for Internet Explorer
but still I would lean toward Chrome
would probably be my suggestion and
there are reasons for that beyond it's
not a brand war it's nothing like that
other than from Microsoft's perspective
Microsoft wants you to use only their
software if they could
their way that's how it would be but the
other products that are out there are
simply more current more safe more
bleeding-edge and you know a lot of any
piece of software can have exploits any
piece of software be it edge Chrome
Firefox Internet Explorer can have these
kinds of problems but the fact is chrome
is bringing out this is a Google owned
product is bringing out a new version
all the time any time there's an exploit
found they're fixing it right now on the
other side of this is Internet Explorer
this is from Microsoft if I could say
Internet Internet Explorer this is no
longer supported okay like Windows XP as
exploits come out as things are
discovered like this the problem will
remain for all time so if you continue
using that product you are no longer
going to be safe
against that particular threat now this
one's a bad one you consider yeah if
you're on a website and then you start
typing something into the address bar
which you think is your search engine or
going to another website if you're if
you're on this malicious website and you
enter category five TV in the address
bar it will know that you have now gone
to category five out TV normally that
information is not shared with the
website freights
which can be an issue if you're doing
things like a private search I don't
know really what you could do in your
address bar that would be Oberer private
I mean oh I went to Facebook oh I went
to Google but still you know yeah you
want to know that your stuff is secure
and it's not when you're using Internet
Explorer this particular exploit too
because now we think about exploited web
sites are vulnerable to collecting this
data alright and so you think well who
would do that why would I be on a
website that is malicious I don't go to
those kinds of websites you might say
the fact is here's how hackers do it how
Fisher's do it and these kinds of things
they buy ad space
you might be on yahoo you might be on
Facebook and you are being served ads
right and these people who are selling
advertisements may not catch that the
particular advertisement that they are
hosting is malicious I saw one on Yahoo
that was installing malware directly on
people's computers because it was an
infected flash object that was
installing this malware on Internet
Explorer driven computers so this kind
of stuff happens hackers know that hey
III may not be able to get you to come
to my website but I can put my code on a
particular popular website that I know
you're going to frequent scary stuff can
be so don't use Explorer which the
chrome switch to firefox anything but IE
ran that explorer i have a fun news
story yes yes they're all fun this one's
less scary baby less conspiracy theories
moving forward yes
Dyson the engineering company best known
for its vacuum cleaners and fans plans
to spend two billion pounds developing a
radical electric car the battery powered
vehicle is due to be launched in 2020
Dyson says 400 staff have been working
on the secret project for the past two
years its headquarters in Wiltshire
however the cards is not yet exists with
no prototype belt and a factory said is
yet to be chosen Sir James declined to
give further details of the project with
only the only leaked information being
an internal email or email where he
simply states competition for the new
technology in the automat automotive
industry is fierce and we must do
everything we can to keep the specifics
of our vehicle confidential okay this is
why it's exciting to me okay because
it's out of left field
Dyson they might they make vacuum
cleaners it kind of may they babble in
tech and again stuff I love it I I just
for something I I know that there are a
bunch of
companies out there that are really
focusing on these cars and I get it but
Dyson
it just blows me away he able to do
something interesting now here's where I
wish I had artistic abilities yeah and
maybe here's your challenge this week my
friends come up with a concept car that
Dyson might create I'm picturing
probably powered by a tornado black hole
that swivel ball things yeah it's gonna
be wild I want to see your caricatures
of this car I love this idea it's it's
going to it's probably gonna be the
best-selling car of 2020 this is the
strangest leak ever though when you
think about it
yeah we're bringing out a car but not
telling you anything about it
well also they don't they don't have a
prototype they don't have working on it
for two years we've been working on it
for two years we're not telling you
anything about it it's top secret and we
don't have anything we don't have a
location it's gonna be built yeah we
don't but we know how much money we're
gonna spend on it in other words two
years ago they were sitting around
having a glass of wine and said we've
been doing this for two years
maybe it's a streetsweeper weird yeah
clean the streets
maybe it'll scrub the air why they can't
say anything because I robots are gonna
sue them for the idea I'll do anything
that represents or resembles a Roomba
how great would it be cleaning the
streets the dicing car nice okay in
failing to correctly patch a known
vulnerability and exposing the personal
data of potentially 143 million
Americans to hackers Oh
Equifax made a security blunder of epic
proportions however it appears the
company is just getting started
leaving its digital doors wide open to
criminals apparently wasn't enough for
the credit reporting agency as it's now
sending hack victims directly into the
open arms of
unknown internet pranksters yes Equifax
is directing those concerned about the
data breach and its repercussions to a
fake website set up to troll the company
itself that's right the official Equifax
Twitter accounts is pointing people to
what looks to be a fake site okay a
phishing site
Equifax created a very real site WWE
koufax security where people can enter
their last name along with the last six
digits of their social security number
to see if they were affected by the hack
unsurprisingly someone cloned that site
and hosted a copy at a very similar URL
which is www.securityasi.com or so
easily confused that Equifax itself
apparently can't tell the difference
thankfully the maker of the spoof site
seems more interested in calling out
Equifax for their incompetence than
stealing the personal information of
unsuspecting victims the header of the
fake site reads cyber security incident
and reporting customer information which
is totally fake
why did Equifax use a domain that is so
easily impersonated by a phishing site
the spoof sir the spoof site goes on
saying Equifax should have hosted this
on Equifax com with a reputable SSL
certificate instead they chose an easily
impersonated domain and use the
jellybean SSL cert that any script Kitty
can impersonate in 20 minutes it's not
clear if the site captures the data
entered by tricked consumer if it
discards it there is no real contact
information on the page and many of the
links take you to a YouTube video for
Rick Astley's never going to give you up
nice okay so they've pulled it off and
they've tricked people into going to
this and Equifax themselves have tweeted
the phishing site yes it is crazy I just
it's it's funny because I don't know if
you noticed it was like one of them was
security Equifax knew everyone was
Equifax security so I can they just
reversed it so
actually like legit looking for the
dyslexic but there right yeah oh you
sure but why would they ever register a
domain like that it's stupid right now I
did go back over category 5 TV and made
sure and yes we did give the correct
address for you but fact is Equifax
themselves gave the wrong one
right hello so thankfully they they
caught on and and stopped it right and
thankfully the person who was
responsible was just having a little bit
of fun but you know who knows what the
next guy could be right exactly but
that's all the time that we have all
right comments in exactly below big
thanks this week - W - in our community
of viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sacha Rickman well
that's all the time that we have tonight
it's been a lot of fun I can't believe
Season eleven has kicked off yeah way to
go way to go and we're one step closer
to having that computer ready for you so
we'll see you next week when we finally
fire it up awesome take everybody
