welcome back to another episode of new
everyday so glad you tuned in and I'm so
excited to have my dad back on the show
Rob web and we're going to talk also
about Jesus claims to deity so we're
excited to be talking about that and
stay tuned
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials in training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat five dot TV / Linda alright
welcome back thanks again dad for coming
on the show and chatting with me and
let's just pick right up where we left
off we were talking about the authority
of Scripture and how when we're speaking
to others and we say well you know the
Bible says this this miss about God
about salvation because the Bible
because it says so how can we be sure
that that the Bible has authority to say
that it is the word of God and you
highlighted some things already
mentioned but you often use a little at
memory trick to remember what one easily
add dad using your hand okay this is a
way to remember the authority of
Scripture and the areas in it that give
us reasons to believe and I got this
from Greg cocoa stand the reason great
website great ministry that he does and
so the idea is that we have our little
pinky it starts with P for prophecy
which we talked about last week so we
have evidence of the authority of
Scripture because the prophecy is
fulfilled foretold and fulfilled as we
talked about last week and then we have
our next finger which is our end our
ring finger and this finger is with the
finger that we have a ring on and it
it's an evidence of unity that's a unit
were united in marriage and it's where
we put the ring there to signify that so
this this finger reminds us of unity and
it reminds us of the scripture that we
use this to remember
those who are our little memory to
memory exercise here to remember that
the reasons to believe we have our ring
finger which is evidenced it reminds us
of the unity of the scriptures that the
66 books are all tied together and give
us a coherent presentation of God's plan
for salvation right from the beginning
to end a progressive revelation even
though we have these 66 books written
over 1500 years by over 40 different
authors there's a unity there that
cannot be denied as you go through these
books so that's another reason to
believe and then your third finger which
is your largest finger you talk we use
that to remember that it answers the big
questions of life biggest finger answers
a big question yeah like that okay so
now you know so we've got prophecy we've
got unity we got the prophecies in the
Bible unity of the scriptures all the
books and we've got the big questions
the big questions being where did I come
from is there a way to live my life is
there a purpose is there is there a
moral way is there a meaning to my life
and where am I going to go so its origin
meaning morality and destiny and the
Bible has a coherent presentation over
these 1500 years of books in the Bible
of the 66 books has a coherent
presentation of those those perspectives
origin where did I come from meaning
what's the purpose morality is there a
way I need to live my life right yes
absolutely and destiny what happens when
I die the Bible answers all those
questions in a coherent way that lines
up with the reality that we live in like
nothing else so we have those three and
then the fourth finger with your it your
index finger so we use it as an index to
history to remember that the Bible is
historically accurate and it's used oh
and it has been used by by
archaeologists and scientists to look in
the historical of proofs and and and and
so it stands up it's been tested and
it's used all the time as a historical
reference and it's always been found to
be one hundred percent accurate so it's
historically accurate so that's another
thing for the evidence of the scriptures
okay so we got prophecy unity of the
scriptures it answers the big questions
of origin meaning
reality and destiny it lines up with the
index of history and then what's our
thumb well this is the index indexing
history and as we look through it so the
finger reminds us that it is a his good
historical it is a great historical
reference because God got his history
right and finally the thumb we put our
thumb like that and it's that the Bible
changes lives if we do what the Bible
tells us to do and live our lives as
such and receive Christ as our Savior
remember we said the theme of the Bible
is Jesus Christ and the purpose of the
Bible we read in 2nd Timothy 3 15 is
that we would be wise unto salvation
through Jesus Christ when we move and
and do as the Bible says lives are
transformed Oh God transforms us right
we are like we go from death to life
right I like that oh okay and so we can
use our hand because it's only with us
as a quick way to remember as we're
discussing these things with somebody
okay so the evidence is there I don't
care how you come out the Bible it's
there now you wanted to break take us to
some scriptures will keep that in mind
as we are kind of like building the
evidence to support these so if we've if
we've established the authority of the
scriptures through those means yeah then
when we look at what did Jesus say about
himself because this question of Jesus's
deity that some people will tell you
well he'd never claimed to be God oh and
that people tell me that yeah yeah and
then and what I'd like to show you now
is just two places in the scriptures
where he does okay claim to be God and
there's many there and so in in mark
chapter two and Jesus doesn't just say
believe me I'm God okay like just trust
me kids as we spoke last week there's
got to be evidence to support our belief
and once we believe in something and the
evidence is strong enough we move in
that direction invest ourselves into
that which we believe and that is faith
it's belief in action that's what faith
is right so in mark chapter 2 Jesus is
preaching in a house and he says this
the scripture says this
he entered Capernaum and after some days
it was her that he was in a house
immediately many gathered together so
that there was no longer room to receive
them not even near the door and he
preached the word to them then they came
to him bringing a paralytic who was
carried by four men and when they could
not come near him because of the crowd
they uncovered the roof where he was and
when they had broken through they let
down the bed on which the paralytic was
lying when Jesus saw their faith now
notice that word he saw their faith
their faith was what I guess their
action exactly they believed Jesus could
heal their friend and so their faith was
their belief in action of lowering him
through the roof ok basic belief in
action is faith ok when he saw their
faith he said to the paralytic son your
sins are forgiven now verse 6 but the
some of the scribes who were sitting
there and reason reasoning in their
hearts why does this man speak blasphemy
like this who can forgive sins but God
alone and immediately when Jesus
perceived in a spirit that they reasoned
thus within themselves he said to them
why do you reason about these things in
your hearts which is easier to the say
to the paralytic your sins are forgiven
or rise take up your bed and walk verse
10 Jesus says but that you may know so
that you will know that the Son of man
has power on earth to forgive sins he
said to the paralytic i say to you arise
take up your bed and go your way you
know so jesus actually is saying you
know you're right it's easy for me to
say this your forgives our sin your sins
are forgiven but Jesus then says so that
you'll know here's the evidence to
support your gonna I'm going to show you
something in the physical so you'll
understand that spiritually the
implications are that that the Son of
man has the authority to forgive sins
and they even said the only person the
only only one that can forgive sins is
God he says to them I'm god I can do yes
exactly he gives an evidence to support
what he has said and so that is that is
that principles laid down all through
the scriptures God is not
you know we we have our faith based on
the evidence that God has given us and
it's it's through general revelation
creation and it's through special
revelation of the Bible and Jesus and we
have our personal revelation as we've
come to know the Lord and he lived the
spear of God lives in us and so that's
just one place where Jesus this is an
indirect claim to deity yeah what's
interesting I like that he says which is
easier to say your sins are forgiven or
to say get up take up your mat and walk
yeah for one in the physical world it's
impossible for a paralytic to just get
up and walk yes so both are equally
impossible but this first can only be
done by God right and he acknowledges
that the fact that he can heal this man
is also evidence that he's God yes and
he takes the challenge right she's okay
that's a fair challenge yet it seized me
to say that and he gives him the
evidence to support what do you said
evidence of things unseen exactly a
minute forgiveness of sins is unseen the
evidence of my sins being forgiven in my
own life is made manifest in and how
people see how I live yes and the
transformations at heart yes yeah and
that Christ has gone to the cross and
died for us and made us righteous before
God and that we are his yeah so that's
just one place in the scriptures were we
see Jesus making an indirect claim to
deity through the events that are
happening he does it again and one
that's one of my favorite ones Matthew
chapter 12 verse 1 we start there we see
in Matthew Jesus it's the Sabbath and so
at the I'll read from chapter 12 verse 1
of Matthew at that time Jesus went
through the grain fields on the Sabbath
day and his his disciples were hungry
and began to pluck heads of grain and to
eat but when the Pharisees saw the saw
it they said to him look your disciples
are doing what is not lawful to do on
the Sabbath then he said to them then
jesus said to them have you not read
what David what what David did when he
was hungry he and those who are with him
how he entered the house of God and ate
the showbread which was not lawful for
him to eat nor for those who were with
him but only for the priest
or have you not read in the law that on
the Sabbath the priest and the temple
profane the Sabbath and are blameless
why is it saying that because they're
working the priests are actually doing
all the priestly duties right there
working and yet they're profaning the
Sabbath because they're working it's
supposed to be a day of rest and this is
and Jesus just nails it here but i say
to you that that in this place there is
one greater than the temple but if you
had known what this means I desire mercy
and not sacrifice you would not have
condemned these the guiltless for the
Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath
so he makes a reference as he did all
through that the New Testament in the
Gospels Jesus references as himself as a
son of man yeah why does he do that
because he is the son of man because he
is easy in human yes and he is God
became man to take our sin from us which
began with Adam and so he is the son of
man but she's also the son of god and so
he is saying here that the Son of Man is
Lord of the Sabbath well the Sabbath was
began when you know when one creation
exactly in creation so he is saying I'm
lord of the Sabbath i'm the creator I'm
god I'm lord of how can it be Lord of it
if he is created exactly so his this is
a direct claim so you know does this
prove that he's this the distance is
proven though it is he is proved that he
said that he is god right people say oh
he never said it he did this this is a
direct claim yeah to date the date here
in mark we see the Lord give the
evidence for it ok and if we've done our
our study of why we should we can trust
the authority of Scripture when Jesus
speaks we can believe them because of
the authority of this word and so so
it's not circular reasoning there's
evidence inside and outside the
Scriptures pointing to the authoritative
scriptures and and the reality that
Jesus is God and came as a sinless
sacrifice for us and what that says
about the character and grace of God
and who he is his attributes in fact
when we talk about God's grace that is
the great story of God is His grace this
entire book that he gave us his word
it's all grace we say now we're in the
time of the church and is the time of
grace it's all grace for by his grace he
gave us his word all of it and it is it
is it is it is full of the expression of
his love and His grace and His mercy
towards us and mercy triumphs over
judgment and God is not willing that any
should perish but all should come to
repentance and salvation through Jesus
Christ he's not willing that any should
perish and so he's gone to these great
lengths and showing us his love
expressed through the sacrifice made by
Jesus Christ on our behalf it's amazing
and that's the good news that is the
good news that is great news yeah that's
great yes it is and the evidence that
supports that great news is wonderful
and that's why it's life-changing yes
yes yeah I know it's been in my life and
in yours too and yes yeah so when you
read your Bible and you know you you've
come that you've you settled the
authority the scripture now when you
read it and you see what God is saying
about who he is and what who you are in
him and his grace and we look at he says
I I know the beginning from the end and
we see all the way through the Bible
right through the end of Revelation
God's grace God's grace and is
withholding of judgment but we have to
understand that you know we're all
sinners and we've all violated God's
moral law and he's provided a way for us
to do not take the punishment that is
rightfully ours for breaking his law
through Jesus Christ he's provided a way
to escape the Jeopardy that's there for
all of us yeah and so those who receive
Christ become his and we're righteous
before him because of it nothing we did
no yeah no we didn't deserve it cars
awesome he is awesome huh so he is
awesome this is his word
and we just scratched the surface and we
just eat it's all there wow it is more
there's so much there just it's just
it's wonderful and I know sometimes in
sharing with people you know I used to
get nervous dad and still do sometimes
with god i think is helping me with that
a deal oh I gotta share i kinda quickly
give a reason of why i believe it
because it's so awesome can I know his
grace towards me and so awesome and I
gotta remember the date of Isaiah and I
gotta remember all these things but I
found that that doesn't matter as much
because it's God who works in you to
will enact according to his good purpose
absolutely and he does the work and he
wants whoever you're talking to whether
it's your spouse your your kids your
parents your friends he wants them to
come into relationship with him well
even more than we want them to and so he
in his love he draws him with cords of
loving kindness it says in his word and
I just hold on to that sometimes I walk
away oh man I should have said that I
shouldn't have said that but in the end
it's in his hands and and he loves them
yes and it's not a matter of just
understanding intellectually right but
it is the work of the spirit in the
heart of those who are God is drawing to
himself and so yes the evidence needs to
be there and it's what it's as much for
us who know the Lord as for those who
don't it gives us it builds our faith
right it affirms our own yes and
strengthens our resolve to walk and to
serve Him and to know that we're we this
is true and so when the evidence is
demanded it's there you have it we have
it yeah and it may be the thing that
points the person in the debt direction
and as they move in that direction it's
the Spirit of God that leads them I mean
some plant some water God causes the
increase hey so well why don't we
closing prayer would you pray again dad
father thank you for this time and we
thank you for your word we thank you
Lord for your grace towards us father I
pray for all those who are listening
watching father
you would even now in this moment touch
their hearts with the truth of who you
are and the grace that you have for them
and the mercy that's available through
Jesus Christ and that you're longing for
them to turn to you and the lengths that
you've gone to father we thank you you
thank you for this time in jesus name
amen amen thanks again for tuning in
check out our website new everyday TV
you can also find us on Facebook and you
can listen to us on stitcher as well and
we hope that you'll tune in next week
and that you'll start opening the Word
of God and letting him speak to you and
it's going to transform your life thanks
again dad don't look fuzzy alright have
a great week
you
