[Music]
tonight we're looking at Cody if you
head on over to Cody dot TV and on their
website you're gonna find the ability to
download what's called Kodi Media Center
if you click on download you'll see this
is great because it's compatible with
all different kinds of operating systems
so if you're looking if you're using
this on Windows Linux Mac it doesn't
matter choose your weapon even Android
and raspberry pi and iOS how do you like
that so once you have Kodi installed now
all of a sudden you've got a media
center installed on your computer that
allows you to watch tons of different
videos what's neat about Kodi is it is
add-on how do you say it's add-on
compatible it uses add-ons to bring
content to the system you'll notice if
you look at their website just about the
Downloads it actually says and they
can't be any clearer than this
the official Kodi version does not
contain any content whatsoever this
means of course that you need to
actually install add-ons or channels and
things like that in order to get maybe
RSS feeds whatever it is that you need
in order to get content onto Kodi it's
strictly a player the reason that that
is like that and the reason that they
are so firm about that is because as
we've mentioned on the show before cody
has been used for illicit reasons so
you're talking video piracy the ability
to watch shows that you do not legally
have the entitlement to to watch could
one of you take it was actually Dave
Cooper who sent in a query regarding
Kodi so Dave says how about a show on
cody and TV movie apps for it also I
search for cat 5 on Cody and found
nothing a lot of people here in Ohio
that's in the US are very interested so
a show on the ins-and-outs would be just
great thank you and that's the thing if
you install Kodi you get nothing with it
right you bring it up and you'll be like
okay well what am I supposed to do with
this now yeah right it's not
everything's not there it's not ready to
go it's like when you install an OS like
Windows and you don't get an office
suite well what do you do you know well
you could install LibreOffice absolutely
LibreOffice is a free alternative but
traditionally people don't maybe know
that and so they go and install a
purchase a copy of Microsoft Office or
something like that yeah Cody is
bare-bones and you need to actually add
things like add-ons so tonight I'm going
to show you how to install the category
5 TV add-on that gives you access to not
only the live show but any of our
back-back content as well so what we're
gonna do is we're gonna bring up our
website now having already installed
Kodi on my computer and assuming that
you're going to have done the same
Kodi is available in your repositories
on Linux so you don't have to go to
their website and download it in order
to install it on Linux you can just go
into your favorite package manager and
type in code EK o di and you're gonna be
able to grab that if you don't have
access to it if you're on Windows or Mac
and you don't have a package manager
that works the way that Linux does you
can just go over to Kodi dot TV again
it's spelt k o di so if I head over to
our website category 5 dot TV Jeff is
much taller than Sasha and I so we're
gonna scroll all the way down to the
very bottom of the site I'm not sure
yeah I think that's where we're gonna go
anyways I may put a more prominent link
in the top bar here because that would
probably be a good idea but in the
meantime if you go down to the bottom
you'll see links and there's a button
that says simply subscribe and when you
click on subscribe you see Roku Cody and
Plex now it was mentioned there Dave
mentioned that you got into Kodi and you
started searching around the channel
store looking for a category-5 add-on
and it's not there and we really really
do hope that eventually it will be there
there's actually
have an issue listed on github on the
Kodi add-ons page requesting that
somebody do a PR to add our channel to
the to the official add-ons it hasn't
happened yet I don't know what kind of
turnaround we should expect from that if
somebody is a coder and wants to do that
PR hey I'd welcome you to do so our
channel is ready to go it's just tell
them that you're the number one bald
nerd if she's going to it they'll be
like what kind of qualification is that
top of Google man your mum may be proud
Robbie yeah Google Google Bob just like
me too so here on our website anyways in
the meantime Dave and anyone else who
wants it all you have to do is just go
to our website category five dot TV
click on subscribe in the in the footer
and then download Kodi plug-in and
that's gonna give you the file so I've
got it there it is so now that I have
that download did you notice how quick
that was now I'm doing this on Windows
10 you can be doing this on any platform
now that I've got Cody already installed
because I did that on a previous show
I'm gonna bring that up and this is what
Cody looks like out of the box well my
library is empty fantastic what good is
that for me so what I want to do you
know I click on TV shows and I say well
there's nothing there and I click on
music oh there's nothing there so I'm
gonna go add ons keeping in mind that I
have already downloaded that add-on from
category-five TV now so it's on my hard
drive as a what a zip file from github
so knowing that it is a zip file I'm
going to go over to well I am gonna go
video let's see here add ons
my add-ons go up a folder and then
install from zip file that's what I want
to find the interface I find it a little
bit clunky but you will find your way
around and it changes from version to
version and I hate that I hate that you
know you'll install an old version and
this may be obsolete this is I feel like
I've got like Ontario weather going on
it's true it's true
I read I'm guy I really don't like it
when interfaces change and this one is
no exception
it does change from version to version
but you're gonna find your way around
what we need is that add-ons install
from zip file now that I've done that I
can go maybe my home folder no that
doesn't take me there so instead I'm
gonna go to see and then users because
I'm on Windows right so Robbie and then
downloads is where my downloads are
located and I've got plugin video
category 5 - master I've got two of them
and that's because I downloaded it
before the show just in case our
internet was wonky so I'm gonna click on
the first one there and what do you see
category 5 add-on installed would it was
that easy let's go back and you notice
how I'm navigating forward and back and
things like that
right-click takes me back right click on
my mouse and left click takes me forward
so that's how I'm going back is by a
right-click ok so if I go to video
add-ons now what do I see category 5 TV
network so it's not just category 5
technology TV this is the entire network
so let's click onto that and look at us
so we've got the category 5 TV newsroom
we've got immersive nature sounds which
is like nature recordings and binaural
so you can hear it in on headphones you
can hear the birds coming up behind you
and things like that
pretty cool stuff what else have we got
we've got new
every day sorry I'm learning the foot
switches new every day that's our faith
broadcast that happens every week we've
got scratch game coding for kids that is
more timers new show
we've got tech clips from category five
technology TV of course technology TV as
well
the drone zone the pixel shadow of the
show show and the live broadcast as well
when we are live that will work so if I
go into for example tech Clips you're
gonna see the seasons that are currently
available for that particular
broadcasting and going to season 11 and
you'll notice that not all the seasons
are there for tech clips and that is
simply because we haven't always done
all the editing that is required in
order to have something like tech clips
so the ones that are there I can
actually look at that I can just
highlight it I can find the clip that I
want and I can click on it to view
thanks I can right click to go back and
how do I get see what I mean the
interface is a little bit wonky I need
to actually navigate dot-dot okay so go
back to category 5 technology TV look at
that so we've got seasons 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 and 11 Wow just like that and
again this is absolutely free and it's
officially supported and there you go
with last week's episode and two weeks
ago and so on so it's as simple as that
to get category 5 TV network up on your
Kodi installation Kodi is again free at
Kodi dot TV we are not yet officially in
the Kodi add-ons ecosystem so you can't
just do a search within Kodi for
category 5 yet but in the meantime you
can install our channel by going to our
website category 5 dot TV
scrolling down all the way to the bottom
and clicking unsubscribe I'm going to
see the Kodi add-on easy as that pretty
easy good times this week it worked
awesome because we've got a lot of folks
that have been helped
now check out the the changelogs and
everything if you go to our github page
you'll see everybody who's been pitching
in to make that possible
[Applause]
you
