here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Lubuntu is dropping the 32 bit high so
unfortunately some people still use
Internet Explorer and yet another
serious exploit has been found
Dyson plans to release a radical
electric car in 2020 and equifax teens
have a grasp on security these stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching this is the
category 5 TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
Linux box if you are hoping to download
a boon to 17 point 10 32-bit come its
release next month we've got some bad
news to give you a boon to is dropping
32-bit builds of a boon to desktop
entirely as of a boon to 17 point 10
Canonical's dimitri john LED cove has
asked the boon to release team to action
a proposal he put forth earlier in the
development cycle in which he argued
that the i30 i386 builds of a boon to
desktop ok 32-bit builds should no
longer be produced no changes are being
made to other builds of ubuntu 17 point
10 such as minimal install ISOs or the
net install option and this news does
not mean a boon to won't run on 32-bit
simply that you won't be able to
download a premade desktop ISO image for
it the 32-bit a boon to archive is not
going anywhere either
if you're currently running a 32-bit
version of Ubuntu you can continue to
upgrade to new room
as normal this change also does not
affect the boon to flavors such as x/z
boon to Ubuntu Matei a boon to budgie
and at all they'll be free to make their
own decisions about what they support
and there's always a point to 16 point O
for LTS which is supported until 2021
and readily available as a 32-bit image
here's a question I have yeah who would
want to download you know the whole
32-bit versus 64-bit argument the 32-bit
kernel is anything up until three three
and a half gigs of RAM you refined to
run a 32-bit OS there was a time years
ago when it was really hard to get a
64-bit OS hey but what does it mean it
means that you your computer can run
faster it means it can do more
operations at any given time it means
that you can have more RAM like we're
putting 32 gigs of RAM in a computer for
you and that could not happen on a
32-bit operating system ok it has to be
64-bit so what's this hole a boon to
thing a boon to of course is a flavor of
Linux Linux is an alternative to
Microsoft Windows it's an alternative to
Mac OS and it is a free operating system
for your computer so thanks to that
you've got bleeding edge technology and
now they're saying hey here's our free
OS and we're keeping up with the times
we're dropping the 32-bit ISO which is
the downloadable disc that you can
install on your computer right and
instead we're pushing you to have to
install the 64-bit so that means no more
older hardware that doesn't support
64-bit because when you say I 386 32-bit
those are the old computers so if you've
got an old 40 60 X 2 you're not going to
be able to install from the ISO ubuntu
any longer because it's passe it's old
technology 64-bit is the way to go and
that's what they're pushing for but good
note that if you already have 32-bit
Linux installed you can upgrade right
yet the latest and greatest you just
have to you have to get the Installer
from the older
version and then upgrade from there
right fine
that's alright cuz you already have it
so you're ok if you're curious about it
boom - if you're curious about Linux hey
get on to our website category 5 TV
click on contact us there's a way to
actually reach out to the show we'd love
to field your questions excellent thank
you I'll just kind of slide over here to
be the best until I need it again
there's a bug in the most current
version of Internet Explorer that leaks
the addresses search search terms or any
other text typed into the address bar
the bug allows any currently visited
website to view any text entered into
the address bar as soon as the user hits
enter the technique can expose sensitive
information a user didn't intend to be
viewed by remote websites including the
web addresses address the user is about
to visit the hack can also expose search
queries
since ie allows them to be typed into
the address bar and then retrieved from
Bing or other search services this
weakness
may allow malicious sites to view
information the user presumes was
private people should strongly consider
using google chrome months Mozilla
Firefox or another 9 non-iea hour that's
a huge scary deal goes without saying at
this point don't use internet explorer
if you bring up that e that blue e any
longer if that's what you're using to
surf the web you're doing it wrong
please listen to me when I say start
using Chrome start using Firefox start
using a more modern browser internet
internet explorer is done right and like
windows XP it's not safe to use anymore
some would say ever was right now so do
they do they try and push themselves or
are they just a default sorta do they
realize the users yeah well does it come
free does it come pre-loaded on
computers Internet Explorer older
computers yes ok Windows 7 had Internet
Explorer pre-installed right wrong
Windows 10 it comes with a program
called edge Microsoft edge which is
their replacement for Internet Explorer
but still I would lean toward Chrome
would probably be my suggestion and
there are reasons for that beyond it's
not a brand war it's nothing like that
other than from Microsoft's perspective
Microsoft wants you to use only their
software if they could have it their way
that's how it would be but the other
products that are out there are simply
more current more safe more
bleeding-edge and you know a lot of any
piece of software can have exploits any
piece of software be it edged Chrome
Firefox Internet Explorer can have these
kinds of problems but the fact is chrome
is bringing out this is a Google owned
product is bringing out a new version
all the time any time there's an exploit
found they're fixing it right now on the
other side of this is Internet Explorer
this is from Microsoft if I could say
Internet Internet Explorer this is no
longer supported ok like Windows XP as
exploits come out as things are
discovered like this the problem will
remain for all time so if you continue
using that product you are no longer
going to be safe against that particular
threat now this one's a bad one you
consider yeah if you're on a web site
and then you start typing something into
the address bar which you think is your
search engine or going to another web
site if you're if you're on this
malicious web site and you enter
category 5 TV in the address bar it will
know that you have now gone to category
5 TV normally that information is not
shared with the website frights which
can be an issue if you're doing things
like a private search I don't know
really what you could do in your address
bar that would be Oberer private I mean
oh I went to Facebook oh I went to
Google but still you know yeah you want
to know that your stuff is secure and
it's not when you're using Internet
Explorer this particular exploit too
because now we think about exploited
websites are vulnerable to collecting
this data right and so you think well
who would do that why would I be on a
website that is malicious I don't go to
those kinds of websites you
I'd say the fact is here's how hackers
do it how Fisher's do it and these kinds
of things they buy ad space right you
might be on Yahoo you might be on
Facebook and you are being served ads
right and these people who are selling
advertisements may not catch that the
particular advertisement that they are
hosting is malicious I saw one on Yahoo
that was installing malware directly on
people's computers because it was an
infected flash object that was
installing this malware on Internet
Explorer driven computers so this kind
of stuff happens hackers know that hey
III may not be able to get you to come
to my website but I can put my code on a
particular popular website that I know
you're going to frequent scary stuff can
be so don't use Explorer which the
chrome switch to firefox anything but IE
ran that explorer i have a fun news
story yes they're all fun this one's
less scary maybe less conspiracy
theories moving forward yes Dyson the
engineering company best known for its
vacuum cleaners and fans plans to spend
two billion pounds developing a radical
electric car the battery powered vehicle
is due to be launched in 2020 Dyson says
400 staff have been working on the
secret project for the past two years
its headquarters in Wiltshire however
the cards is not yet exists with no
prototype belt and a factory set is yet
to be chosen Sir James declined to give
further details of the project with only
the only leaked information being an
internal email or email where he simply
states competition for the new
technology in the automat automotive
industry is fierce and we must do
everything we can to keep the specifics
of our vehicle confidential okay this is
why it's exciting to me okay because
it's out of left field
Dyson they might
do you make vacuum cleaners it kind of
may they babble in tech and stuff I love
it I I just for something I I know that
there are a bunch of companies out there
that are really focusing on these cars
and I get it but Dyson it just blows me
away I'm gonna do something interesting
now here's where I wish I had artistic
abilities yeah and maybe here's your
challenge this week my friends come up
with a concept car that Dyson might
create I'm picturing probably powered by
a tornado a black hole they have that's
wiffle ball things yeah it's gonna be
wild I want to see your caricatures of
this car I love this idea it's it's
going to it's probably gonna be the
best-selling car of 2020 this is the
strangest leak ever though when you
think about it yeah we're bringing out a
car but not telling you anything about
it well also they don't they don't have
a prototype
they don't have working on it for two
years we've been working on it for two
years we're not telling you anything
about it it's top secret and we don't
have anything we don't have a location
it's gonna be built
yeah we don't but we know how much money
we're gonna spend on it in other words
two years ago they were sitting around
having a glass of wine and said we've
been doing this for two years maybe it's
a streetsweeper
weird back yeah it'll clean the streets
maybe it'll scrub the air why they can't
say anything because I robots are gonna
sue them for the idea I'll do anything
that represents or resembles a Roomba
how great would it be cleaning the
streets the dicing car nice in failing
to correctly patch a known vulnerability
and exposing the personal data of
potentially 143 million Americans to
hackers Oh Equifax made a security
blunder of epic proportions however it
appears the company is just getting star
leaving its digital doors wide open to
criminals apparently wasn't enough for
the credit reporting agency as it's now
sending hack victims directly into the
open arms of unknown internet pranksters
yes Equifax is directing those concerned
about the data breach and its
repercussions to a fake website set up
to troll the company itself that's right
the official Equifax Twitter account is
pointing people to what looks to be a
fake site okay a phishing site Equifax
created a very real site WWE Koufax
security where people can enter their
last name along with the last six digits
of their social security number to see
if they were affected by the hack
unsurprisingly someone cloned that site
and hosted a copy at a very similar URL
which is www.securityasi.com or so
easily confused that Equifax itself
apparently can't tell the difference
thankfully the maker of this boost site
seems more interested in calling out
Equifax for their incompetence than
stealing the personal information of
unsuspecting victims the header of the
fake site reads cybersecurity incident
and reporting customer information which
is totally fake
why did Equifax use a domain that is so
easily impersonated by a phishing site
the spoof sir the spoof site goes on
saying Equifax should have hosted this
on Equifax com with a reputable SSL
certificate instead they chose an easily
impersonated domain and used a jellybean
SSL cert that any script Kitty can
impersonate in 20 minutes it's not clear
if the site captures the data entered by
tricked consumer if it discards it there
is no real contact information on the
page and many of the links take you to a
YouTube video for Rick Astley's never
going to give you up nice okay so
they've pulled it off and they've
tricked people into going to this and
equifax themselves have tweeted the
phishing site yes it is
I just it's it's funny because I don't
know if you notice it was like one of
them was security Equifax knew everyone
was Equifax security so I can stay just
reversed it so it's actually like legit
looking for the dyslexic but they're
right yeah oh you sure but why would
they ever register a domain like that
it's stupid right no I did go back over
category-five TV and made sure and yes
we did give the correct address for you
but fact is Equifax themselves gave the
wrong one right hello so thankfully they
they caught on and and stopped it right
and thankfully the person who was
responsible was just having a little bit
of fun but you know who knows what the
next guy could be right exactly but
that's all the time that we have all
right comments in exactly below big
thanks this week - Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-5 TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman
[Music]
[Applause]
you
