hello and welcome back to new every day
my name is Carrie in my name is Jen and
on today's show we're going to talk
about dragons beasts and beauty of God
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials in training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / linda
alright welcome back to new everyday so
glad that you joined us again we are
continuing to look at the book of
Revelation dragons beasts and the beauty
of God just the thought of having to
read about that kind of makes me feel a
little uncomfortable which is what we
talked about on our first show of the
book of Revelation how it can be totally
you can be put off by the fact that
there's all these symbols there's all
these different meanings that we really
don't always have a good handle of yeah
and it was that it can be kind of
daunting daunting to read even well
there's a beast and then the Beast has
horns and then there's a there's two
women and one woman who's pregnant and
the dragon is coming and wants the baby
but she's given wings and lift it off to
heaven her and then there's another
woman who sits on another beast and she
is like scary and that least has horns
and three horns and in the middle horn
gets big and then it falls off and then
there's another one and it's very
confusing or it seems to be that so
confusing and scary and because we don't
know it and when we don't know whatever
ignorance comes in and I know ignorance
is such a harsh word but whenever we
don't know we tend to draw back or you
can be afraid or we don't understand
what like I don't know what to do with
this what am I supposed to do with this
and what's I think that's where the
enemy actually wants to come in and
cause all sorts of problems and so one
of the reasons why we're talking
specifically about beasts and dragons
and the glory of god today is
specifically because when Jesus revealed
this message to john to write down they
would have actually understood what the
symbols meant for the first for the most
part because it the revelation says it
is for so people will know what is
happening now so the question is well
what is happening out and what will
happen in the future so the questions or
what was happening during that time when
Jesus gave
revelation to John so that's one of the
key things that is good Bible
scholarship actually is to go digging to
say well what was going on around this
time when Jesus gave this revelation to
John why was that so important for Jesus
to say you know this is what's happening
so what was happening I guess is the
question if we were to go get in our
time machine and go back to this period
in time in the book of Revelation was
happening do we know what what was so
what was the landscape at that time yeah
I'm asking you you're asking me that's
none of that question the questioning
looked like to say Jen are you going to
answer that question well Rome was in
control so just like when Jesus was born
Caesar Augustus was the Roman Emperor in
charge now the Roman emperors and in his
the country that they oversaw believe
that the Emperor's were gods that they
so you needed to bow down and worship
them hmmm that might pose a problem for
Christians right who worship only God
who worship only God who will not bow to
another which sort of goes back to what
we talked about Daniel in one of our
previous shows so Christians believe
that there is one God and He alone is to
be worshiped and so the Emperor's did
not like this because they felt that
they were you surfing that okay and so
basically we often hear of the terrible
terrible persecution and that was taking
place during that time that's where the
Coliseum gladiators the Lions yes so the
Christians were literally thrown to the
Lions that we actually saw that in
Daniel as well right with play Darius
but wasn't for sport that was a means of
execution yes this was a means of
execution for the Christians but it was
for sport for the people to watch which
you know even as we say that just breaks
my heart that people would that people
could be so mean
to watch another person being killed by
animals or even pitted against each
other to the death and yet that was the
culture of the day and so this was going
on like often they were thrown to the
Lions or wild beasts or they were sent
on fire or crucified and just tortured
and as they would not bow right they
they would only bow to God alone and so
when Jesus is writing this he's actually
writing it to comfort his people because
um what's interesting is chapter 4
begins with um in verse 4 before the
throne there was something that looked
like a sea of glass clear like crystal
in the center and around the throne were
four living creatures with eyes all over
them in front and in back the first
living creature was like a line the
second was like a calf the third like
the face of me had the face of a man the
fourth was like a flying eagle each of
these four living creatures has six
wings and covered all over with eyes
inside and out day and night they never
stop saying holy holy holy is the Lord
God Almighty he was he is and he is
coming these living creatures give glory
honor and thanks to the one who sits on
the throne who lives forever then the 24
out there's bowed down before the one
who sits on the throne and they worship
Him who lives forever and ever they put
their crowns before the throne and say
you are worthy our Lord and God you
receipt to receive glory and honor and
power because you made all things
everything exists and was made because
you wanted it mm-hmm and so Jesus and
this is why I get such comfort Jesus
sees what's going on with his people
right as always like I gotta get them a
message so in midst of all the suffering
it's like he he beams down this message
or beams up John to see this vision of
what is happening to say God is in
control God
in control yes and even though you know
and it's interesting that he chooses
that there's beasts with these eyes and
I know I don't even begin to imagine
what that looks like because it you know
that can kind of put me off a little bit
but the fact is they are bowing beasts
are bowing to God who sits on the throne
the 24 hour elders are bowing and
they're saying holy holy holy they are
acknowledging who really is in control
and even when John wrote this he was
ostracized he was sent away to the
island of Patmos yes because of his
faith in Christ so he was isolated on
the island and that's where when he
received this message from Jesus and so
that must have been hopeful for him to
actually see the throne of god yes like
I just that is why revelation is a book
of hope and the enemy does not want us
to read it because he doesn't want us to
get hopeful to see that in spite of the
suffering and everything that's going on
he doesn't want us to know that God is
really in control yeah that he's gonna
work all these things out because he
doesn't want us to get our eyes on Jesus
and that's one thing I noticed all the
way through the book was there'd be this
really kind of scary part so or fearful
part like even the letters to the seven
churches can kind of be like oh no is
that me write it baby yeah and they had
it but then right after it let's look at
Jesus let's look at the throne room of
God and see you know get her eyes focus
on who really is in control and all the
way throughout the book this is what
happens there's like this glimpse of
reality and then the lips of God a
glimpse of what's going to happen
glimpse of God like it's like this is
what's happening but God turn your eyes
back to me yes it's so easy to get
distracted and I think of when John the
Baptist was taken to prison and even
there John the Baptist okay like this
guy was in the wilderness he was the
cousin of Jesus yes right so he was born
he was
told by God he went in the wilderness
lived there he preached about God
brought people to God brought them to
repentance baptize them that was his
life and then was brought into prison he
actually saw the Spirit of God
descending on Jesus like a dove okay
that's some confirmation right there
yeah and he said behold the lamb of God
who takes away the sins of the world and
yet when he was in prison he said to
messenger to Jesus saying are you the
Messiah or should be we'd be waiting for
someone else John the Baptist in his
suffering right yeah started to question
it and wonder if God is in control and
are you really the Messiah are you
really Jesus and Jesus wrote back tell
John what you have seen and heard yes
that the blind see the lame walk the
dead are raised and the poor are hearing
the good news yes blessed are they who
do not fall fall away on account of me
mm-hmm we can get lost in the suffering
because what happens when we suffer so
often you get our eyes from here
focusing on God to hear focusing on us
and there's no hope in me hmm there's no
hope in me like if I'm left to my own
devices yeah that news yeah but as soon
as I turn my eyes on Jesus Wow even when
the world it doesn't make sense to do so
yes is all the more reason when we need
to do it when you're stranded on an
island when you're in prison and we know
that there are many Christians all over
the world we're in prison right now
we're just praying for you yes and they
are struggling more than we could ever
know I know and we we need to turn our
eyes back to him we need to turn her
eyes back to him the world says pull
yourself up by your own metaphysical
bootstraps dig down deep there's nothing
there no there's nothing there the hope
is in Jesus Christ alone and and I think
that's what we need to focus on when we
read this like the the Jews the
Christians were suffering and Jesus is
like keep your eyes on me and so when he
gives all these symbols we can actually
be like oh right what's this what does
this mean but yeah in order to find the
meaning and the whole behind it yeah and
we've talked about this a little bit we
actually have to do some digging yeah we
have okay because the Jew the Christians
at the time would have known what a lot
of these symbols meant and so it's like
me saying when Carrie and I at first
decided to share an apartment together I
would say um what does that have to do
with the price of eggs oh yeah quite
sure what she's gonna say here and I'd
be like what what does they never hurt
that saying before and I actually had to
explain to her what what does that mean
or all that in a bag of chips all that
in the vegas instead in time saves nine
that was just last week and i had to I
know I she likes all things like well
they're not new all right I know them Oh
hmm carry on anyways see I had to
explain it yeah I'd you had to do some
digging and explain it to me yeah in
order for her to understand what I was
saying and that's exactly what is
happening here like the Christians knew
what those symbols meant and so it is
our responsibility then to get out our I
love that phrase our metaphysical
shovels and do some digging okay what
did those symbols mean to the people who
have been receiving them and it's like
because God uses things always
throughout the Bible to convey his
message but in a hidden way yeah and
there's a proverb that says it's the
glory of God to conceal a matter but the
glory of kings to find it out so we have
this great joy to see
the depth of the word of God and then
it's not yes we can read the story of
Jesus and He healed the person with
leprosy and we can see right there on
the page jesus healed them we learned
about who Jesus is and yet when you dig
deeper into scripture it reveals so much
more so something that I learned about
was in Genesis chapter 5 if you want to
go right on back to the beginning of the
Bible there is a very long genealogy
there and it says this is the book of
the genealogy of Adam in the day that
God created man he made him in the
likeness of God he created them male and
female then it goes on to say Adam lived
130 years and begot a son in his own
likeness after his own image and named
him Seth and they be got set and then
Seth begot enosch and enosch begot
so-and-so and so-and-so and so-and-so so
all down this this big long listed as
you're reading that I'm looking at the
camera boy cuz little do may your
genealogies they're like I think you
know what I'm just going to skip over
that and I would often skip over it
until one day I learned something very
interesting that originally the Genesis
was were written in Hebrew and if you
look at the meaning of the names there's
actually a message from the Lord hidden
in the meaning of the needs so if you
look at the Hebrew name Adam means man
Seth means appointed enosch means mortal
Kenan means sorrow Mahalalel means the
blessed god Jarrod means shall come down
Enoch means teaching Methuselah his
death shall bring lemac means the
despairing know what means rest or
comfort and if you look at the meanings
of those names it actually tells the
story of redemption so let me read you
the english translation of those hebrew
names okay man appointed mortal sorrow
but the blessed God shall come down
teaching that his death shall bring the
despairing rest or comfort the meaning
of the names tells a story and you can
find that resource if you go to our
website
new everyday TV and click the link to K
house org you can find all this
information about how to do some digging
but Jen here in the Old Testament was
this hidden gem of the mercy and the
plan of God that he was in control even
in Genesis and we can trace that all the
way through the Bible and now in
Revelation we can see that he is still
in control still in control even in
these hidden numbers they know which can
be so overwhelming and daunting like
when you we talked about this in the
last show that number seven means
completeness but you did some digging
about some other numbers to orate well
the number 12 is like the 12 tribes or
the 12 disciples hmm and the number for
can often mean the four corners of the
earth or all of the earth thousand when
we see you know it says a thousand or a
thousand it just means there's a lot of
people okay like smells like really like
exactly two thousand or exactly like 144
is that an exact number and seems pretty
specific it seems pretty specific until
you understand that Greek and Hebrew
writing like they would round up just
like we do like we wouldn't say well it
was fourteen thousand nine hundred
thirty-two you project it's it's around
15,000 people and you see that
throughout the Old Testament right
there's you know it sometimes it says
there are 257 but when they get into the
thousands it's often a rounded number
but what it means is that there's a lot
of people there's a lot a lot a lot of
people and God knows the exact number
and sometimes there are exact numbers
for reasons so yeah yes like the number
666 mm-hmm and I don't know why God
chose the number 666 to represent the
mark of the beast those who would follow
after him but see everybody knows like
even people who don't know Jesus they're
like a successor side number yeah you
put that on your license plate yeah yeah
look back back back yeah and so we can
get caught up in the what is that when
is that going
happened what is you know what is the
mark the beast what is um instead of
flipping it over because it says that
those who know Jesus will have a market
given to that by the end God who is
Jesus so the question is who are those
who will have the mark of the beast the
question is will you have the mark of
Jesus mm-hmm and I just love that like
so often we focus on the negative rather
than focusing on that wait a second I'm
gonna have the mark of Jesus I would
have a mark of Jesus like Jesus is gonna
mark me with his number mm-hmm and I
find great comfort in that I'm like I am
markt by the Lamb of God who takes away
the sins of the world who takes away my
sin you know cuz how often we can
generalize that all the sins of the
world but no he takes away my sin yeah
so I can be restored to relationship
with God which is what the whole Bible
is about yeah in that I'm gonna stand
I'm gonna be in those thousands upon
thousands right and so I you know I read
those numbers and I can get so upset and
yet I'm like God where's the hope in
those numbers and when you talk about
standing with those thousands of
thousands you're talking about heaven
right yeah that happens a real place
that heaven is a real place that real
people are going to go to and and one of
the I think one of the reasons why God
uses stories is to get people asking
questions of well whose side am I on and
am I going to be in heaven which is this
wonderful glorious place which Don tosco
saying there will be no more tears there
will be no more sickness no more cancer
no more depression no more abuse and
more little more division no more
divorce dandruff no more dandruff little
more um leprosy or skin diseases
no more confusion in relationships no
more strife because there will be no
more sin hmm there will be no Marcin and
so revelation is the story of how God is
is giving people one it's like the
curtain call one another chance to come
to know him mm-hmm another chance and so
it's like I lay before you life and
death choose life which is goes all the
way throughout Scripture always read
scripture he says I lay before you life
or death such is life she was life and
he and the book goes on to talk about
judgments that are going to happen on
the earth and one reason why I was kind
of put off from reading is because it
seemed out of character for God
initially when I read it man these are
harsh judgments that you know part of
the people some people are going to die
and people are going to be wiped out and
it's going to be a terrible time and I
said think boy that's the judgment and
severity of God because he's holy and
perfect and we can never live up to his
standard but then you said when you were
reading it Jen your perspective changed
that and I had this change of
perspective as well that when God allows
judgment to happen it's a give people
one more chance yes see I'm serious guys
I'm serious you need to turn from your
sin this is real yeah like and that was
because I'd never really thought about
it before like judgment we often think
well that's just got being mean well
actually so it's him being true to his
character like in the sense that he uses
mercy to dross but he also uses judgment
to draw people to him like he is serious
about what he says actually you know
like in the Book of Jonah when Jonah was
running away and he was on the boat and
there's that crazy storm yeah and the
sailors who were there saw the power of
God and what was happening to Jonah
because he he disobeyed and God used
that in his
mercy to bring those sailors to himself
yeah the kind of same thing you know
this judgments happening but it's like
one one more chance guys just one more
chance and you quoted a verse to me
earlier jan i think it was in peter
right the god is not slow in keeping his
promises as some understand slowness but
he is faithful not wanting that anyone
should perish but all should come to the
knowledge of the truth of Jesus Christ
yes that's second Peter 39 the Lord is
not slow in doing what he promised the
way some people understand slowness but
God is being patient with you he does
not want anyone to be lost but he wants
all people to change their hearts and
lives and what's interesting is often
when I read through the Bible if I read
a verse I'm like oh that's connected to
this first but I Ezekiel 1823 so is he
he'll 1823 says I do not really want the
wicked to die says the Lord God I wanted
to stop their bad ways and live that's
Ezekiel so and then Isaiah 65 2 says say
is 65 to all day long I stood ready to
accept people who turned against me yes
another version says I hold up my hands
to an obstinate people like the message
of Revelation is God holding his hands
out to an obstinate people and that's
the sad part actually is even though
he's you know bringing his judgment
because the thing is and you get this
idea that God is actually defending his
people there because it says that he
will defend us so his people are being
wronged and hurt so he's actually rising
up against the people that hurt his
people and in so doing he's actually
giving them another chance to repent
right how mind-boggling is that that in
his judgment people can be drawn dan
great because he would relent they turn
to repent yeah yeah
and so dragons beasts and the glory of
God is really in his judgment it is an
opportunity for an obstinate people to
come to know him which is his heart
which is the hope the message of hope
found in Revelation last week we talked
about Jesus is the messenger it is true
and worthy for the purpose of bringing
hope to his people and here we are God
uses symbols and beasts in order to draw
people to him that's the message of
Revelation he extends his hands for
people to come and be in relationship
with him so that they might be saved
eternally and live with him and that's
good news and that is good news so why
don't we descend in prayer done yeah or
God you are the Almighty God who people
will bow down and worship forever and
you extend your hands to an obstinate
people to draw them to you or in our own
personal lives where we show signs of
being obstinate would you reveal that to
us and help us to repent so that we
might have a fuller understanding of who
you are be drawn closer to you and for
those who have never ever ever even
contemplating coming to you because they
thought there's just no way would you
reveal them yourself to them as standing
arms wide open ready to receive them no
matter what so father we ask that you
would send your Holy Spirit
to every person that's watching this
show today and that they would sense
your open arms are for them and would
you cause them to come to you thank you
Lord that you are a god of hope and
despite the beasts and the dragons in
our lives you're there extending your
arms thank you so much your name we pray
amen amen well thanks again for tuning
into new every day we do invite you to
go to our website new everyday TV and
any references we've made two different
resources you can certainly find that
through our website and I guess we'll
see you next week please check us out on
Facebook leave as opposed tell us what
you're thinking that there's something
we can pray for you about we'd love to
do that until next time that's a nice
one
you
