welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 533 nice to have
you here tonight we are going to be
looking at a few devices that are gonna
help you keep those things charged that
are going to be under the tree this year
so if you think about you know any new
electronic gizmos that you need to
charge them up for add batteries to
we're gonna show you how you can do that
with some really great devices tonight
awesome and here's what's coming up in
the category 5 TV newsroom Google has
released an AI tool kit for the
Raspberry Pi thanks to new regulations
cell phone unlocking is now free in
Canada a ridiculously dangerous bug in
Mac OS was fixed quickly but
unfortunately comes right back after a
software update and Facebook Messenger
is coming to preteens should parents be
concerned sticker out the full details
are coming up later in the show this is
category 5 technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
Technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku kodi
flex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category-five dot
TV category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat5 TV / TPM and the international
association of internet broadcasters
cat5 TV / i AI b welcome to the show
it's nice to have you here don't know
what you're talking about chat room take
2 take 3 woody what are you on about
we've got this cool new feature here if
you're watching live on Wednesday nights
make sure you get into our chat room
category 5 on freenode hey everybody and
hello to our chat room before we get
really kind of kicked off tonight I just
want to say that we really hope that all
of our viewers in California are safe
and and doing well we're thinking of all
of you and we would love to hear from
you make sure you let us know that
you're safe
want to say hi to all of our new viewers
everyone who is watching in Southern
California on K BVB TV if you're
watching on YouTube on Roku Cody Plex
any of the mediums that we're on it's so
nice to have you joining us mm-hmm
thanks for being here
how was your week my week yeah you know
it's been good we're gearing up for
Christmas season yeah the kids are
getting excited we've got the tree up my
son's birthday is November 25th
that's Liam the littlest so he's 10 7
and so we always wait until like really
the day after his birthday to set up the
tree and everything so that's like our
family our family thing you know and
same with our December this is the 13th
of November so yeah same weight same
kind of deal yeah exactly you don't want
them to the two party decors to clash
that's sure birthday party Christmas
theme with Star Wars yes it works great
together Christmas tree pinata victory
something minister bean could pull it
off yet somehow he could over here week
session
My Week was awesome I really like
nothing to report kind of awesome yes
that's kind of I did all of my Christmas
shopping already I did it all on Amazon
and so it all has been delivered
you know Wow and great feeling when it
all arrives wrapped yeah Amazon wrap
defied of no but like as soon as it
arrives I take it out of you mean the
box and then I wrap it and put it under
the tree so it's all done yeah kind of
done now and I'm just waiting for
Christmas I can unwrap the ones that are
cool Megan sit back and eat all the
candy that's right mm-hmm I'm speaking
of Amazon just want to say hey thank you
to everybody who's been doing Christmas
shopping through our partner links it's
such a cool way to support category-five
TV all you have to do is go to our
website category five dot TV click on
support us and you'll see shop with our
partners and what's cool about that is
it doesn't cost you anything extra
you're gonna shop online anyway as I
mentioned Amazon is one example but
we're also partnered with other shops
like thang geek is another great one
your vast ebay there's a Oh a bunch of
other ones as well but just so you folks
are aware it is like December has been
unbelievable so we feel so blessed here
we are a group of volunteers and we do
have to pay rent and internet service
and replace defective hardware and
upgrade hardware where needed all these
kinds of things are all expenses that we
have to deal with even though we
actually are volunteers here so as you
shop through those links a portion of
each sale goes to doing those things
paying the rent is our biggest monthly
expense and and December has as pretty
much covered our January rent so we're
we're ahead of the game thank you so
just want to say thank you very very
much for those of you who are doing that
such a cool way to support the shows
that you love here at category-five and
we appreciate that we are giving away a
copy of debt effect to VR yes actually
multiple copies yes and I will win them
all he's got claims on it
have you entered to win no they won't
let me because I have something to do
with the show I don't know how well you
do enter to win by emailing contest at
category 5 TV let us know how you're
watching the show you can put some
questions comments thoughts anything in
the email or just let us know you're
watching from that will get you entered
in your name will get drawn we have a
winner this week what yes this week's
winner is Jeff Oh this week's winner is
Brian who is watching on a Roku on Roku
2 from Williams Lake BC Canada nice
Congrats Brian now-dead effect to VR is
a steam game so we'll e-mail you a promo
code that allows you to download that
absolutely free it is a crazy shooter in
space yes yeah you've seen our review
it's crazy so I hope you enjoy have some
fun
keep it away from the kids but have fun
with that and again as I mentioned send
an email to contest a category 5 TV if
you'd like to participate in that draw
another way you can support the show is
on patreon we've got a couple of new
patrons this week and really exciting
kind of evolution of our patreon profile
is does anybody know
is it the vlog yes
so patreon our patreon profile at
category 5 its category 5 on patreon so
if you do like patreon.com slash
category 5 you'll see us but if you are
a patron you've got access to our behind
the scenes vlog so there have been two
episodes so far we're kind of showing
you behind the scenes how the show is
put together not just this show but all
of our broadcasts and we're gonna take
you on a tour take you on all kinds of
neat things you're gonna get to see our
actual web server you're gonna get to
see things like our places of employ and
how our day to day is so all these kinds
of things are just going to be kind of
going on it's a vlog so it's a lot of
fun for us because it's a chance for us
to just like pull out our smartphones
and film something that you can enjoy as
behind-the-scenes look into our real
lives so that's pretty cool so that's
something that we've brought out for
patrons this week just as a little bit
of a thanks so that you can see some
cool stuff behind the scenes again it's
patreon.com slash category-five if you'd
like to support us in that way if you're
not familiar with patreon you go check
it out and it'll show you how it works
but it's pretty pretty cool
so we've got to take a really quick
break and when we come back we're gonna
actually be showing you a couple of
gizmos that are gonna help you keep your
device's charged because we know that
you've got some devices that are gonna
be under the tree this year and we all
got to think about those batteries so
stick around we're gonna show you some
really cool gizmos you want to add to
the stockings we'll be right back
[Applause]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV now tis
the season got some cool stuff going
under the tree we got to start thinking
about how we're gonna keep our devices
charged how all of those gadgets and
gizmos are gonna have battery power to
do nice yeah tonight we're gonna show
you three different devices that are
going to help you achieve that these are
great things to throw into people's
stockings and great things just to have
around the house as well so let's get a
look at what we have here for you
tonight
so first up now we all have devices that
use double-a and triple-a batteries I've
got some double a's here but those
aren't regular double 800 there is
something really unique about these ones
Jeff
they have monster eyelashes they do
adorable they're fun for the kids right
right you've got to be fun for the kids
we like nickel metal hydride batteries
because one they carry a good solid
amount of juice but two they are able to
be recharged over and over and over
again and you know with the caveat that
we do want you to when it comes time to
get rid of them don't throw them in the
trash because that would be bad for the
environment how these can be good for
the environment is you use them charge
them use them over and over again and
then you waste them recycle them your
city may have like an e-waste program
that will help with that
because nickel metal hydrides can be bad
for the environment if they end up in
the land
they didn't have some chemicals in them
that are not good for for the earth so
that said these particular batteries can
be charged up to 500 times so you
consider you know for about maybe a
dollar more than what you're paying for
your standard AAA batteries you know
it's really not a lot of money to spend
you're getting rechargeable batteries so
hey that's cool we've all got
rechargeable batteries we've all got our
nickel metal hydride charger so what
makes these ones special Jeff well i'm
noticing on the package that it shows a
microUSB it does have a micro USB
picture on the package you so right oh
and I'm just noticing that the package
is green so it's translucent on our
chroma key set USB charged
charging batteries you're right let's
get a look okay folks let's see if I can
get in there oh they always do this to
me what do we see USB cable so with
these ones what's neat now these are
standard nickel metal hydride double-a
batteries these ones are 1000 milliamp
hours and the triple A's are 450
milliamp hours these batteries as you
can see there there is in fact a USB
micro port now they can be charged in a
standard charger so if you have a nickel
metal hydride charger already great you
can plug these into that and it will
charge them just as a normal
rechargeable battery but sometimes you
know if you're traveling or whatever
you probably don't always think to bring
your charger it might be a little bit
clunky or maybe it's just not convenient
or it just makes sense to have something
a little more convenient so these
batteries once they're used up and they
come fully charged they come with a USB
micro cable and this cable as you can
see has two micro ends on it and you can
in fact if you'd like you can buy a
separate cable from the same company oh
and this one has four on it which is
kind of cool too because like I can use
this for my phone as well it's not it's
USB micro it's universal right
so all I have to do to charge these with
no battery charger handy is I actually
can just plug the batteries directly
into the cable and then plug this into
any USB device like a computer or wall
wart my phone charger whatever it is and
then that will charge the batteries for
me see that is amazing now I mean these
are doublings yeah but you can also get
in triple A's that's right
what about C's and DS these put this
particular brand model are only
available in a and economy double-a and
triple-a okay I haven't yet seen the
technology in the larger batteries I
would guess Jeff that that's because as
soon as you get into D you're looking at
like how many milliamp hours would you
have to have I have no clue a lot right
you consider that a double-a has about
twice as many milliamps as a triple-a
all I know is not twice as big all I
know is that my kids Christmas set yeah
train that goes around the tree Oh
requires eight DS well they're advance
of to buy new ones cuz that sucker runs
out of juice after about eight hours so
they know really ass whoa yeah so you
can get standard D nickel metal hydride
batteries sure yeah but these are
different because they have the charging
mechanism built into them Jeff right you
have to imagine addy I'm not even sure
if it's if the if it would be possible
okay sure because you lose you know
there's the charging mechanism taking up
about you know a couple centimeters or
half an inch and then this is the actual
battery cell itself right from here to
here so with a d-cell you're looking at
a lot more milliamp hours I think you
you know as a manufacturer I'm just
guessing right I'm not a battery
manufacturer so I might have missed it
but roughly how many times can you
charge these 500 500 500 per battery
yeah that's so at the 500 mark is there
any indicator that it's just not well
with any rechargeable battery nickel
metal hydrides are in a you know perfect
example
but nickel metal hydrides are basically
when I say that they're better
rechargeable batteries so we used to use
nickel cadmium yeah which would not hold
a very good charge they didn't have a
lot of milliamp hours
and when they depleted they would just
die nickel metal hydride operate more
like an alkaline battery in that when
they deplete so when they start to run
out of juice they they have a little bit
of a like a curve to their depletion so
they start to lose power so in a
flashlight as a perfect example your
flashlight would go dimmer and dimmer so
you start to see oh my flashlight is
running low I need to plug those in
right whereas with a nickel cadmium your
light just will stop turning on see what
I love about these is because they are
just like your double-a you can use them
in anything I mean oh yeah we've got our
Wii remotes wiimotes are a perfect
example my god oh it's crazy they're
always asking me for more now I can just
say you know plug in your batteries and
the other thing I found with we also
have the the balance board for the Wii
but we don't use it all the time oh yeah
what I hate is when the batteries
explode they explode happens all the
time where they get that acid leak right
because you know you might go a couple
months where you're not using it and
sometimes the kids don't think to pull
the batteries so right are these going
to have the acid leak any battery if
left in a device that is these could
still have any battery cable Jeff yeah
alright any time you're going to store
something you're gonna see this in the
manual of any electronic device anytime
you're gonna store something and not use
it for an extended amount of time like a
month or more you need to get those
batteries out of there
if you're if you don't want to take them
out and and store them separately you
can just slip a piece of cardboard in
between the contacts just to stop just
to stop them from being able because
otherwise you've got a constant flow of
electricity electricity is always moving
so as as soon as you've got a circuit
which is in the the we pedestal thing
it's gonna start it's gonna continually
draw a little bit of juice but not
enough to power the thing so then it's
they're gonna explode eventually so that
would be the case with any battery so my
daughter we've learned a lot here
tonight no but just because they're like
they've got the monstermouth yeah I
thought they were eyelashes but no it's
a monster mouth it's a monster now Wow
my daughter would love these shoes I
might just have to buy some you know
throw them in their stocking and by the
way if you want them cat5 dot TV slash
smart tools and I'm gonna tell ya tell
you it's a little bit of a weird way
that they spell their company name
Smarr smart to use 300 or so think smart
and then three O's LS there you go go to
cat five dot TV slash smart pick those
up which are perfect for your stocking
we're gonna be right back we're gonna
take a really quick break when we come
back we've got a couple more devices
that are gonna help help you charge
devices that use usb in order to charge
alright stick around we'll be right back
is one of the great stories it's
unfolding in our lifetime we are only
seeing just the beginning of this
project and these children will change
the world
welcome back this is category five
technology TV and tonight we're learning
of some devices that are gonna help us
charge our devices mmm that we've got
under the tree because hey here's the
thing Jeff have you just to put this out
there and maybe Sasha you can answer
this - okay has anyone here bought any
electronic gadgets or gizmos as
Christmas gifts for someone else this
year yes that that need to be charged I
have to remember what I bought Amazon
order purchase was not electric what you
know what I I don't know if it requires
batteries that's something you need to
figure out it's wrapped and under the
tree yeah that's not the answer that I
was expecting from my team from you
here's the thing we were looking for
specific items for Christmas yeah I
purchased and they were all just there
just happen the conglomerate that we
bought at that time for the Cyber Monday
was just not alone okay stuff there's
still shopping to be done I've got lots
of electronic gizmos for my kids you do
and I have this philosophy that you know
anything that has wires I need to be
careful about buying that for my wife
cuz that's just like a it's like a
little thing to remember yeah but here's
the thing so I have a smartphone mm-hmm
I have a tablet mm-hmm Becca has a
smartphone mm-hmm the kids have like a
shared smartphone that they use for
games and creating stick pod animations
and things like that
and we are now at that point where okay
we've got wall warts all over the place
all over the place even to the point
where it gets frustrating because some
of our electrical outlets are switched
so someone will come in to the room and
turn off the light switch and my
daughter's
my daughter's phone will stop charging
right like that's where we're at so
wouldn't it be nice if as you think
about you know these gifts that you've
got under the tree this year and maybe
you're just already at that point where
you've all got all different devices and
you need to be able to charge them where
it would be really nice to have one
docking station that would charge
everything oh that would be so amazing I
would actually have plugs again what if
I told you Jeff because this is you know
I have to sound like an infomercial
because that's what YouTube tells me I
am Jeff we've got one that slices and
dices no Joey show me yeah I know right
Joby's has brought out the q7 and this
one there's there's the the infomercial
voice the q7 as we open the box now the
q7 is pretty outstanding Jeff it's got
Qualcomm quick charge 2.0 okay how many
is that six ports that's six ports okay
can I turn this into an unboxing I'm
gonna actually open this up for folks
okay first thing that I notice is this
squiggly thing which is in fact is that
the technical term
yeah the squiggly thing now keep in mind
folks because I've seen some of the
Amazon reviews that this is not the main
selling point of the device but it is a
pretty cool little stand that you can
stand up a couple of phones and maybe a
tablet just to keep okay it's just a
little bit more organized than having
them all laying out on the table right
okay now a couple of amazon reviews are
saying oh well the standard is a little
bit flimsy not the selling point to
stand though this is the stand okay
comes with it it's a bonus it's worth 50
cents and it is what it is let's look at
the actual device what do you think
ready for this I'm ready okay I'm gonna
set this cheap little floozy stand over
here which actually is pretty good but
it is what it is is not the selling
point here is the selling point my
friends this is a q7 from jeebies and
this device has what AC input we're
talkin this is not like a USB hub this
is not sharing many many you know
scanners into your computer this is
specifically plug it in and start
charging your devices okay now you
already noticed Jeff that we've got six
ports now you'll notice the
discoloration of the top one yes is a a
10 watt port all the rest of them are 40
watt ports now the device itself the q7
will do up to 50 watts simultaneously so
what that means is if you plug in
several devices it's going to share the
wattage with many different devices so
keep in mind 10 watts this top port is
about what you get with a like an iPad
charger yeah yeah ok 2 amps or so yep so
all of these are actually four times the
power as far as wattage goes and they
have what did I mention at the top here
quick charge what that means is that in
about 15 minutes time you're gonna be
able to charge your phone if it's got
that quick charge feature you're gonna
be able shard your phone and get about
eight hours battery life with just 15
minutes 10 minutes
really yeah yeah it's awesome so the
other thing so you think okay well I've
got I've got a couple of old phones and
I've got a couple of new things I got an
iPad or a tablet or something my iPad
has quick charge my phone does not what
happens if I plug them all in together
now it has some safety features maybe we
can kind of just go over a couple of
those Jeff because I've listed them out
so safety features go okay oh you're
you're not gonna take it oh sorry I
thought you said I'm like Hindi Jeff
come on help me out here man I even gave
you a printout okay I was slightly
distracted by the the ticker feed on the
news room down below was the first night
that we've ever been able to see you
chatroom yeah yes I feel like this is a
like an infomercial or something where
attention is exactly like an infomercial
right YouTube right okay so what am I
talking about the PI killer the q7 from
juvies
a actually power a Raspberry Pi 3
protects against overcharging thank you
so if you've got over overheating oh so
it's got you covered
got you covered and if you plug in
multiple different devices that are
drawing different amperage it will
actually automatically adjust the ports
as you plug them in right
instantaneously and you charge
everything all at once now I know that
Chubby's does quality products yeah
they've got all their certification FCC
and all that correct
this is 100% certified and guaranteed so
got our OHS we've got C E and we've got
FCC certification on this and if you're
unhappy with it they'll actually give
you your money back feel that it's
actually kind of surprising that is
solid yeah see as you're holding it up
there I'm looking at it going hmm
right on my nightstand and of course
anybody who cares about like waves when
you sleep and how it affects you they're
gonna be like electromagnetic stuff yeah
yeah what I've said they're going okay
there's my work phone my personal phone
my tablet my House of Marley headphones
yeah in one fell swoop and my my watch
I'm thinking because I've got a power
bar plus all these cables oh this would
be so much like you're using a bunch of
wall warts for that yeah Wow yeah cables
everywhere at all exactly the same set
up I have a power bar with all different
chargers on them and this will be
amazing and I see how clean that is yeah
my phone is a quick church so I mean
that speaks to me there you go me so
imagine yeah there you go that feature
is there I mean it is what it is it's a
very simple product from a promotional
standpoint you know what I can tell you
about it but it works it's great in the
box beyond that let's see we've got this
is the american-style
AC adapter of course you can get the the
UK different adapter as well there you
go
almost wraps for even got some cable
like like wraps or whatever have to kind
of keep everything nice and neat so
they've thought of it all I mean it's it
is what it is and it's fantastic no this
is
just a six port charger it's not about a
hub it's not no it's not a battery it
does not do anything like that it is
strictly something that you would plug
in and it gives you power right yeah but
as I mentioned you could power a
Raspberry Pi or six of them with this oh
definitely five because we've got the
540 amp 40 watt and 40 amp 40 Watts
ports there blow it up it might be a fun
experiment let's see how many raspberry
PI's we can power with that that would
be kind of neat I see and right in my
head I'm starting to think like
multiplicity I'm picturing a power bar
with all these plugged in it just
devices make a server
alright so speaking now you mentioned
while we were looking at the q7 Jeff you
mentioned your watch yes and you just
got back from a trip in the states where
you were out in the good old outdoors
yes how are you charging your watch
actually I brought it with me so I
charged it every night in the room but
also you were you were not roughing it
I'm picturing like a tent no no you had
a cabin with electricity Oh
hotel Oh a hotel it wasn't with a
Jacuzzi shaped like a heart
yeah no it's just okay so moot point but
as you're going camping or maybe you're
in the plane or wherever else where you
may not have a place to charge your
stuff okay so I but this was an issue
because while I was in the forest
sitting in my stand I'm yeah I had an
audio book that was quietly playing in
one of my earbuds on my phone oh so
iPhone like oh yes yeah so of course now
we've looked at chubbies products in the
past we've looked at their earbuds we
had a set on a couple sets on a couple
weeks ago and you saw those on our show
and hopeful years ago we had the
amplifiers yeah amp sound and with those
one of the things that we've mentioned
on the show is how I love how japaese
makes cases that automatically charge
yes they're earbuds when you put them in
yes so Jimmy's heard us talking about
that how much we love these cases and
and the
fact that they can be charged your stuff
can be charged as you're storing it in
this safety pouch and so they said well
let's do something a little different
for those of you like Robbie who perhaps
or not not necessarily in the market to
buy new year buds because maybe you've
already got some right okay and let's
introduce our case to those folks so
along comes JB's for charge this is
fantastic folks the simplest little
thing but everything that we love about
JB's charging solutions classic Jimmy's
case love this case rock-solid there you
go it's got a USB input on the case now
keep in mind that that means that you
can charge the case all right
so now you're gonna be carrying this in
your pocket or wherever in your in your
bag yeah in your purse what a great idea
that is and then you can actually charge
any USB micro device that's awesome or
it features a USB port for other devices
if maybe it's not USB micro no way
charge it as well it's a thousand
milliamp hours and I can just take my my
earbuds that I already own so these are
not cheap easier butts and plug those in
okay just as you would with any charger
cable and then just tuck them into the
case okay now I noticed that you also
have your sjcam so it's charging okay so
you're charging your headphones yeah can
you plug another cable in at the same
time for your ass like yes question dual
charging yes it does have dual charging
so here's my sjcam SJ 5000 X this is my
action cam with 4k so now I can take
this and now it's it even included an
extra USB micro cable okay and can plug
that into my SJ can plug that into the
extra charging port and now I've got
this portable battery pack that not only
keeps my stuff safe there the sjcam just
fired up charging mode so it keeps my
stuff safe like my earbuds or other
small device I was thinking Jeff about
your your SmartWatch yes for example
yeah it would fit
fit perfectly sadly look actually just
put it in there and keep it charged now
the one caveat or the one disappointment
if you will if I had one is that had
Jabez made this case just a little bit
bigger I could have tried I could have
charged my sjcam and kept it closed fit
in they're not charging you're right no
absolutely Santa so I could in fact put
my sjk once it's charged I could use it
as a case for that and close it up
that's fine but there's just it's just
shy of enough room to charge my sjcam
while it's in the case see so if they
had a cable that maybe was had a flat
end yacht rental they would not go
perfect
yeah or if it was just a little bit
bigger that's how it looks with an STI
cam and it would be the same with a
GoPro or something like that so for
those of you who are thinking hey that
would be great for a GoPro you're right
absolutely this case the jeebies for
charge is perfect for that however
you're not going to be able to charge it
and close it at the same time you're
gonna have to pop that up plug it in and
just kind of leave it sitting like that
to charge where Oh from from that side
that I was gonna say if the zipper went
here at the very least it's not gonna
happen no I tried I tried but I loved it
I loved it for my ear buds and I do love
that it will charge other devices even
if they're a little bit too big to fit
in there or even your phone or something
like that it's great you can pick one of
these up at cat5 dot TV slash for charge
and that's the number for check those
out so great little devices for for your
stockings for any of these smart devices
that you're gonna be putting under the
tree this year I think you definitely
need to look at some new ways to charge
your stuff otherwise you've got that
power bar with a bunch of wall warts and
it's taken a lot of juice that works a
lot better so yeah pick these up now
that way you've got them for the road
trip to Grandma's house for the holidays
karevik yep you're good
they also could there's like an extra
present right
absolutely not when I was a kid needs
extra know but it look so great and be
functional right so it's gonna be a
great thing to open under the tree my
parents used to give me something and
they'd also wrap the batteries right but
this is where you can actually give this
as a gift right and certainly it's more
exciting than a pack of double-a
batteries that are just normal battery
exactly I love it stylish and powerful
that's our the new slogan there you have
it for house or just any device that we
review it's a stunning and powerful
Raspberry Pi killer stunning a powerful
mugs all right are you ready if we head
over to the news because I know we've
got some great stories we want to cover
tonight mm-hmm and make sure you stick
around and get into the chat room it's
category 5 on freenode nice to see you
folks down there yeah cool very active
chat tonight mm-hmm I am ready here are
the stories were covering this week in
released an AI toolkit for the Raspberry
Pi thanks to new regulations cell phone
unlocking is now free in Canada a
ridiculously dangerous bug in mac OS was
fixed quickly but unfortunately comes
right back after a software update and
messy Facebook Messenger is coming to
preteens should parents be concerned
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere
Jeff Weston GEMA you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what
aren't you your terrible actor what this
we're acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host this is
the category five dot TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
with a slight linux bias I'm Sachi
Richmond and here the top stories were
following this week Google has announced
the aiy vision kit opening up a new way
for Raspberry Pi users to access its AI
tools the kit comprises a low-power
Intel Nvidia ma 24 50 circuit board and
computer vision software that can be
connected onto an existing Raspberry Pi
computer and camera modules this circuit
board provides the ability to run neural
networks on the device rather than
having to add on an external source for
the process for processing the data or
using a cloud processing system the
software includes access to three neural
network models one to recognize objects
who want to recognize faces and human
facial expressions and a third that can
identify the difference between a human
a cat and a dog Google said it's aiy
vision kit could be used for a whole
range of applications including
identifying plants and the individual
species monitoring where your dog is in
your home seeing when your car left the
driveway and recognizing emotion for
example whether your guests liked your
home decor
this is the second product released in
the aiy line by google it's a iy voice
kit was released in May and enables
Raspberry Pi developers to build a
standalone voice recognition system
using Google Assistant users can also
add their own voice recognition and
natural language processing to prove to
projects so that's good I like it sounds
cool now first of all I'm kind of
giggling over here because I I hate to
grammar police my own no you didn't do
anything but we said we said in the
story that it will recognize humans cats
and dogs I thought immediately of it
looking at a plant and thinking what on
earth is that can you imagine though
being able to create your own artificial
intelligence based on this right so
we've got Raspberry Pi we've got all the
you know technology available at our
at an affordable price but see the one
thing about this story that I'm
struggling with a little bit is the fact
that it's about recognizing emotions
right look in human is this not like a
privacy violation like if somebody comes
over to your house is like hey come on
over for coffee and they come over and
they're like oh I love your walls
suddenly your Raspberry Pi programmed a
liar you know it's now like listening to
your conversation and creating a bit of
a profiles what's good like is that a
violated privacy toolkit yeah I feel
like not really isn't your phone always
listening to you anyhow yeah I couldn't
now just to put a like a medical helpful
cool idea use for technology could it
help someone with Asperger's if that was
the case okay right truthfully it could
help with a myriad of different health
problems in the fact that now it's
watching if you can watch here your dog
is in the house you can watch where your
elderly parents is in the house if they
if they have you know Alzheimer's and
they wander you know right so but
backing up again remember this is a
toolkit so this is something that we can
develop our own technology based on the
toolkit that's made available so now I
can create my own robot that can kind of
you know interact with me and my kids
could you create a lie detector baby
well as well as could I look you in the
eyes and determine that you're lying
they've said they say what is it if if
they look to the right or something like
that yeah good but here's not suddenly
I'm having this like brainwave I feel
like there needs to be a little light
bulb graphic above my head we should
like do this as a project on a show and
have the AI just listen to our shows
every week yeah to start developing as
an assistant for what a greater yeah
just to see how it turns out since from
Robbie's emotions that he would like
another coffee or the next news story
right
Wow effective immediately
cellphone unlocking is now free in
Canada prior to this carriers such as
Rogers Telus and Bell could charge you
$50 to unlock your phone that's no
longer the case on top of that devices
must also be sold unlocked as well
mm-hmm so why should you care it's
simple if your device is unlocked you
can take it to any carrier get serviced
for it which means if your current
carrier isn't meeting your needs is too
expensive or has horrible customer
service you can go elsewhere easier on
top of that you can switch phones at
will without being forced into a new
plan the change also means that when you
go overseas you can use a local SIM card
at a much lower price rather than being
charged be charged by your cell phone
carrier for expensive roaming services
all of this is great for the consumer
but likely bad news for cell phone
providers as they will now have to up
their game it if they want to retain
customers I love oh yeah right because
for the longest time my wife and I were
subscribers to a certain cell phone
provider and their customer service
suddenly became incredibly crappy so we
went to switch thankfully for my wife
she was at the end of a contract she
could just sign up for a new one I just
signed the contract six months earlier
so it cost me 50 bucks to get out and I
was like that's a whole other can of
worms when you start looking at
contracts but what here's the thing Jeff
what got you into that contract the new
phone it was the new fun new phone but
see if it was unlocked I wouldn't need a
contract right cuz I could just find
that phone already unlocked maybe online
or something and then just go to my
carry and be like hey I would like to
sign up like this potentially could
result in a lot of people not doing
contracts because they already have an
unlocked phone I'll give you an example
of how this benefits someone like myself
okay I have my phone
yes you do which I unlocked so I bought
the unlock code for this phone because
at that time it was not free it was
commercial and then I unlocked it myself
so I can do that or
go to my service provider and have them
do it and pay them to do it they do it
so that you'll switch to them with a
phone from a competitor yes so in my
case I've unlocked this phone and I buy
pay-as-you-go service because I don't
use my cell phone
like at all it's it's for emergencies
and for like if the alarm goes off kind
of thing right so that's that's just me
so I use I use magicJack at home so I've
got like I can call anywhere in the
world for free kind of thing at least
North America so with this
I've got like such cheap services six
dollars and twenty five cents a month
and it gives me everything that I need
because I only use Wi-Fi and phone
service so I'm not cheap I'm just frugal
right and and then when I go to the
cottage so this happens you know I go to
the cottage and we want internet service
well my $6 and 25 cent service does not
have internet for me so what I do is I
take the SIM card out and I go down to
the local ISP and I get pay as you go
internet right okay right that's right
different provider right so then they
sell me that it's $10 for the chip for
the SIM card right I pop it in here now
if I had a dual SIM phone I could just
have it in at all times and just use it
whenever I need it
but then pop it in and I've got LTE
internet mmhmm yeah
Dave and I have an unlock phone we bring
to Jamaica there you go yes then do you
buy SIM card while you're there or some
card in Jamaica yeah and I mean many
people do that and now it'll just be
easier we had to pay to unlock the phone
as well but now now they have two for
free which actually will up everybody's
game I think for customer service now
that'll be how you win customers would
it be neat if we lived in the world
where you had to provide good customer
service in order to get customers I will
I will say my cell phone company which I
will not name but controversially like
most people don't like them and I love
them they give me great service I
wouldn't switch from them even if I had
the freedom to which I don't cuz I'm
locked it any cell phone company you're
gonna have
who loved it and those who hate it
because they're huge right they're like
here in Canada we've got like Rogers
Bell tell us plus all there's maybe or
you could say five yeah Fido's like
Rogers and yeah you know you've got all
this kind of stuff going on but
realistically there are only a couple of
major providers so pretty much I think
Bell and Rogers on most of the towers
have to pay rental fees and stuff I'm
hoping that in the end this somehow
drops the price of cellphone plans
because of the competition aspect
because they are unlocked because like I
just got a text today about my cell
phone my wife and I 218 bucks for the
month I am that's no overages
like yeah you'll have to buy your phone
outright right you might but that's the
way it's gonna work now we were with a
particular provider and we were with
them for a few years and we weren't
generally happy with the service because
at the cottage there was no signal and
this kind of stuff right but they did
have a rewards program so with that
rewards program at the end of our
contract we said okay what are our
options now we have all these reward
points we could buy a new phone with no
new contract so we bought a new lg phone
using our points I think we had to pay
like a $25 service fee for the like just
- they have to charge something kind of
thing like the hook up ya know I didn't
even get the hook up I just bought the
phone and it would cost me 25 bucks for
the for the $200 phone so I used my
points and I got it and then I bought
the unlock code unlocked it and I put it
on pay as you go that's perfect so
imagine if you could use those points at
a provider who cannot lock that phone
and so you get it unlocked anyways so
now it's just it gives the consumer an
unbelievable amount of freedom that we
can now now we as the users can choose
you know what phone we use where we use
it I can buy a ShowMe phone if I want to
and I can use it on any of my providers
and you know or I can buy the one that
the provider selling if they've got a
promotion now this is that'd be more
competitive now this is a Canadian story
in that this is new to Canada are we
ahead of or behind the rest of the
countries
do most countries offer unlocking for
free or discounted price good question
yeah it'll be interesting to find out
comment below
well who's just saying the chat that the
rules changed in Chile in October what
about the US and Australia has this
issue with the the great story so let us
know yeah we'd be interested comment
below or if you're watching live you can
even comment on the on the feed right
there in the IRC Channel
what about your country are you having
to pay to unlock your phone and what
kind of freedom does an unlocked phone
give to you now a comment came in last
week
Britney Murray was asking about
specifically a route security bug in Mac
and while Jeff and I who said we're
gonna talk about it we're making good
buddy that's right
the serious and surprising route
security bug in Mac OS hi Sierra is back
for some users shortly after Apple
declared it fixed the root bug
discovered last week allows anyone to
login or authenticate as a system
administrator on systems running Mac OS
hi Sierra in many circumstances all they
need to do is simply type the username
root and leave the password field blank
the bug is so serious that it drew an
uncharacteristically strong apology from
Apple which said its customer customers
deserve better after Apple released a
patch for the initial bug some users
quickly discovered that the security
update caused file-sharing functionality
to break apple in turn released a new
version of the security update that
addressed that issue now within just a
few days this initial wrinkle has been
discovered users who had not installed
Mac OS ten point thirteen point one and
thus for running a prior version of the
OS when they received the security
update found that installing ten point
thirteen point one resurfaced the bug oh
yeah and for these users the security
update can be
installed again in fact it would be
automatically installed at some point
after updating to the new version of the
operating system however the bug is not
fixed in that case until the user
reboots their computer many users do not
reboot their computer for days or even
weeks at a time and apples support
documentation did not at first inform
users that they needed to reboot so some
people may have been left vulnerable
without realizing it the documentation
has been updated with the reboot step
now what is this windows I don't
understand I I reboot my computer all
the time system are you running every
single operating system are you running
I run Windows but it and I ran linear ok
but the truth of the matter is I always
turn my computer off at the end of the
day am I the only one who does that well
I think Linux users Mac users alike we
really are used to the fact that when we
run updates we do not have to generally
reboot right yeah but even if you don't
in that moment don't you at the end of
your usage period like I feel like
doesn't it draw a lot of power just to
have your computer just hanging out no
like I've got a 24 core dual CPU Z on
under my desk and I've got it set to go
into a suspended state when it's not in
use and and when it's in that suspended
state it wakes on land and comes back
with the movement of a mouse so yeah I
just never have to turn off why wouldn't
you just turn it off because then I
gotta wait for it to boot and did I
mention it is a 24 core dual CPU Z on
the post alone takes a little while yes
yeah I don't know I just don't
understand I guess maybe just because
it's me and I turned it off all the time
but oh sure now is Apple responsible
because they let's get back on track as
we're focusing on the wrong thing
rebooting our computers so tried turning
it off and on again Apple did not tell
people to reboot their computer after so
they acknowledged the fact that there
was a problem
they did release a fix they did not give
people the last step are they now
responsible for anybody who had possibly
were they responsible originally for the
very bug that made it so people could
log into their computer by just typing
route with no password like again is
this Microsoft Windows no it's not you
would expect better security from Mac
and I say that a little tongue-in-cheek
and people are saying oh you why are you
knocking Windows with Windows if you hit
control-alt-delete type in administrator
and hit enter you will now be logged in
as the administrator use right so it's
it's ridiculous see but that's how you
can hack a computer I you know I hear
you ask the question satchel like is an
Apple response well I guess to a certain
degree or maybe from a legal standpoint
answer is yes but I also feel like when
it comes to computers there should be a
certain level of common sense like you
should always be like it's a computer
it's not like it's a book it's not like
it's a you know a can opener it's a
computer there's a whole whack of
personal information on there you should
be thinking security minded from the
get-go hmm and so things like that I
feel like to really be told --have done
an update you should probably restart
your computer should for most people I
mean less like Robby said you're on
linux should just be common sense but
Mac OS is a UNIX based OS as well UNIX
driven yes he was my wife's computer
every time we do an update and because
she has a Mac yeah it says you know it's
right this is a pop-up that said I don't
know what operating system she's on I
I think it's Snow Leopard or something I
don't know but you know I don't touch
the thing but it shows it's a Mac OS
snowcone she always gets a pop-up that
says you know it's recommended to
restart the computer and she does all
right would she if she didn't get that
pop-up restart the computer I I believe
from again what somehow we're back at
rebooting I don't think it's the users
fault that Mac OS made it so that
someone can sit down at their computer
and log in as root without a password of
course this is not really gonna affect
home users
but unless you've got SSH open but if
you are in a corporate environment a
bunch of Mac's or maybe you're just the
graphic designer and you've been you you
sit in front of a Mac and all of a
sudden you know you come into work on a
Monday and it says I did some updates
over the weekend do you want to reboot
you're like no no I gotta get at work
right right and then Joe Schmoe in the
back finds out about this bug and comes
up to your computer and logs in his
route and well but see here's here's the
thing when sasha was reading the story
initially I thought this was the
workaround with Mac where you can go to
the BIOS
I think it's called BIOS and Mac and
head to the to the terminal and there's
you can bring up a file wipe out a line
in the code and that wipes out the
passwords on your user accounts sure
because I had to do that on my wife's
Mac she we something happened the
password didn't work and she was locked
out and I spent two hours going how do I
get in this thing yeah fine I looked up
an up on a forum and they're like oh you
could bypass the security this is so
much more serious because this is like
this is not CH routing into an OS and
and going through all those steps where
you've really got to be a pretty savvy
user and you have to do it this is
strictly typing in ro ot enter and now I
have the ability to do anything on that
compare so it's a little bit of a
different case because we think about
two different levels there's a real
hacker or a really good savvy computer
user and the script Kitty who just wants
to cause damage and found a way to be
able to get root access to somebody's
Mac right so if you have this version of
the operating system as a default you
know you buy your Mac you get these
gonna say reboot no no you just be aware
like maybe put a sticky note on your
your package that came with your
computer so that if you ever have to do
a factory rear ability on that specific
version of the operating system don't
get caught in the future that's right or
just go to linux speaking of super savvy
computer users facebook Messenger is
coming to preteens strictly speaking
only those aged 13 and over are allowed
to use Facebook but the prevention
methods are trivial meaning more than 20
million
thirteen year olds are thought to be
using the network so on Monday
Facebook launched its first app tailored
for young users it's a ring-fence
network that needs parental approval
before use and will not the company has
promised be used to feed data for
advertising messenger kids is a
simplified lockdown version of the
messaging app that Facebook currently
offers to those over 13 Lauren Cheng
product manager for messenger kids said
parents are increasingly allowing their
children to use tablets and smartphones
but often have questions and concerns
about how their kids use them and which
apps are appropriate if two children
want to be friends on messenger kids
that friendship has to be approved by a
parent for each child once confirmed to
be safe friends can do live video chats
and pictures and texts to each other
there will also be a library of kid
appropriate and specially chosen gifts
frames stickers masks and drawing tools
that lets them decorate content and
express their personalities approved
adults can also contact children through
the app but they will still get their
messages through the normal facebook
Messenger app messenger kids will of
course collect data the child's name the
content of the messages and typical
usage reports for how the app is used
Facebook will share that information
with third parties which must have data
protection policies that comply with
Coppa the Children's Online Privacy
Protection Act in the u.s. Facebook has
promised the data will not be used in
any way to power grown up Facebook
that's important the obvious commercial
benefit to this new app might be to
target ads to parents based on what
their kids are talking about or use what
was discussed in messenger kids to
target ads at Target ads at teens as
they graduate into over 13 Facebook
neither of these things will happen
Facebook said that the app doesn't know
specifically how old the children
signing up are so users will not be
prompted to move onto Facebook when they
are old enough if a child does decide to
join full Facebook it will be a brand
new account with no data carried over
from what was sat on messenger kids
as YouTube found out when videos with
disturbing content found their way onto
YouTube kids trying to make a child safe
space is difficult a minority of people
will always be looking for ways to get
around protections messenger kids is
initially available in the US on iOS and
will later come to other platforms wow I
don't have kids but I'll tell you this
seems sort of scary territory for one I
want messenger kids because it sounds
like then I'm not gonna have to deal
with all the ads what's to stop me from
signing up do you need parental consent
ah dad well I was thinking as I was even
saying that what if its siblings does it
have to be separate parents that allow
children I think it's got to be just a
password protection or something like
that so again what stopped me from
signing up right you probably you
probably as a parent I'm guessing would
have to like sign some sort of a waiver
or you know scroll past the thing that
you don't actually read and then click a
box this is yes I'm the authorized
Guardian mmm something like that
but yeah okay so my kids are getting
into messaging apps right and so I have
spent hours upon hours searching
researching messenger apps I'm looking
for something that is going to have his
minimal footprint on my kids as possible
because I don't want them becoming a
marketing gimmick and I mean I was
listening we were talking about podcast
I think it was last week yeah and I
listened and I did listen to one podcast
about a month month and half ago
about Facebook's tracking algorithms
their AI is so advanced that the
creators of the a I'm for Facebook no
longer understand what it does because
it's surpassed the programming abilities
with 57,000 categories like if this is
what Facebook does for the adult version
and they're saying yes we're gonna
collect all this information with the
kids chat but don't worry we're not
going to use yeah I've just about said a
bad word I don't believe it I don't
believe it there's like so difficulty
you you I DS you need user ID
so maybe you don't it doesn't transfer
the data from the kids Facebook
passenger to the adult but are you still
gonna recognize the unique user ID is
there still going to be a device
recognition to go oh so we're not
tracking it but we also know that this
profile was created on that phone and
that phone now has an adult count and oh
look at that these two columns intersect
I've got the same name hey guess what
we've now got to throw in all these
categories yeah I think what's hard too
is that we look at Facebook and they do
not give anything away for free no it's
a free service I data is a currency I am
NOT on board with this I
I'm sorry Zuckerberg don't trust you as
far as I can throw you I don't buy it my
kids will not use this it's a hard thing
because when we were kids we'd pick up
the phone and we make a call these days
messaging applications FaceTime things
like that are what kids are using to
communicate texting is a big one when we
were kids our parents could hear one
side of the conversation so at least
there was a little bit of a Oh what is
it what are they talking about kind of
like censorship from the parents kind of
thing going on oh you know you've got to
wrap up the call where nowadays it's so
intimate between the two kids that you
don't really know what's going on it
doesn't mention anything really about
parents being able to monitor that would
be ideal if there was like sort of you
could gift your child like a segment
like a kid segment of your account in
that they can communicate with their
friends and you oversee and make sure
that everything that's going on is
appropriate right and not scary that
would be okay with me yeah I would be
okay with mom and dad being big brothers
yeah not just like third parties yeah I
don't know I don't like it okay Sasha
yeah you know how much I don't want your
grandma to be replaced by that Gordon
Ramsay robot kitchen yeah I would rather
see your grandma replaced by the Gordon
Ramsay robot kitchen none of my kids use
Facebook Messenger app the other can
tell my face yeah I'm sorry about that
but okay here's the one thing that
Facebook didn't talk about all they've
got 27 different ad trackers that are
built into various websites
so how is that data gonna interact with
the kids messaging app if they're using
it on a phone there was nothing in the
article about that saying we're not
going to use the web ad trackers and how
it's gonna relate to the kids messenger
app I think there's too many facets to
this this is a conversation that is
going to go on for a while sorry I just
comment below folks let us know your
thoughts we'd love to hear them it's a
big topic we need all your questions
comments thoughts and concerns on this
we know Jeff's heavy panting into the
microphone you know at least I've got
one supporter I noticed on the little
chat ticker box the Foods like Jeff's
nailed it so I've got one fan oh I agree
I agree I just he's very passionate and
as the producer of the show I am very
thankful once again for our compressors
community of viewers for submitting
story to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman Thank You Sasha this is category
five technology TV welcome to the show
if this is your first time here hey
check out our website its category five
dot TV we'd love to have you as a part
of our community this is a free show
available for you to watch on demand on
cable TV on Roku on Plex on Cody but
what we also do is we distribute the old
episodes for you if you want to download
all the old seasons you can actually
download the BitTorrent files and you'll
be able to download the entire seasons
of category-five TV now this episode is
533 533 season 11 so there's a lot of
old episodes and not even old episodes
they say old but past episodes that you
can enjoy if you like what you see here
on category-five TV would love to have
you as a part of it so yeah if you're
watching this one is your first there's
532 other
just like that five good not essentially
you know we average about an hour or so
per episode so 500 and I love that it's
easy math
532 hours viewing pleasure because
that's when we'll see you again and we
look forward to it next week is gonna be
a lot of fun we've got more great
products to review and we're gonna be
checking out a brand new camera next
week as well we're gonna be showing you
how category-five looks behind a 4k
camera at all so you don't want to miss
it yeah we'll see you next week take
care right
