here are the stories recovering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom a
universal translator has found its way
to a megaphone the latest ranking of the
world's fastest supercomputers is out
and Linux on vient once more a 2500
dollar dell gaming laptop for just
thirty three dollars yes please a couple
big retailers in the US have been caught
using illicit social engineering tactics
in their computer service department and
pigs fly and Microsoft has joined the
Linux Foundation these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere now
here's another great way you can support
the shows you love for the category 5 TV
network by shopping gear best that's the
right Jeff cap five dot TV / gear best
it's an online store for the geek streak
in you or the loved ones well of course
I mean especially your loved ones right
because cat5 TV / gearbest quite frankly
has all of the greatest tech gifts that
you could ever hope for at rock bottom
prices did they have cell phones you
betcha cat5 TV / gearbest has a wide
assortment of unlocked android cell
phones and tablets what about compute
consumer electronics those make a great
gift absolutely from high-tech watches
to action cameras headphones even
virtual reality headsets cat5 TV /
gearbest has you covered they literally
have it all Jeff literally really it's
like a super store right from the
comfort of your own chair at your
computer through the interweb yeah
I there's no way they have it all it's
true that's just a bunch of a random
electronic test me what about clothes
yep both men and women fashionable
apparel at rock bottom SuperDuper prices
kinda like this well look at this coat
what do you think it's a slimming mock
leather jacket I love it it's available
for less than thirty dollars plus free
shipping a cat5 TV / gear best yeah all
right you kind of got me there Wow any
other questions for me jack uh now that
the winter is past flying season do they
have any good deals on say grown
couplers oh my goodness well check this
out dude they have everything check out
over 500 various drones and not only
that they're available mark down by
about 32 up to 63 percent off the
regular price love it what's website
again while you're gonna find gearbest
on our partners pages for any of your
favorite category 5 TV shows like new
every day category 5 technology TV the
pixel shadow but of course if you want
to shop absolutely right now and you
want to go straight to the site all you
have to do is visit cat five dot TV /
gearbest so that's easy cat five dot TV
/ your best that's right happy shopping
I'm Sasha terme de stand here the top
stories for the week of November 23rd
2016 as Japanese tourism grows
businesses struggle to bridge the
language divide between international
visitors and locals panasonic however
may have a solution a multilingual
loudspeaker the mega chania Q an
amalgamation of megaphone or mega Han
and translation which is chania Q
automatically translate japanese auto
matically translates Japanese into
English Chinese and Korean simply speak
into the microphone and the Machine
listens and analyzes the sentence
structure and transcribes the words
using the integrated touch screen
pressing the respective dialect buttons
outputs your scent
into one of three available languages so
cool very cool aimed at corporate
consumers including train stations and
airports the amplifier could prove very
useful in crowded locations and tourist
destinations where information is
dispensed to groups who may all speak
different languages the megaphone is
expected for launch in December
twentieth on sale for less than 20,000
yen or 183 dollars per month on a
three-year contract which includes
future updates and maintenance it does
seem steep in my opinion for only four
languages it is amazing kind of remind
to a tower of babel however it does seem
amazing in that all of a sudden we're in
real time you can get a translation that
is broadcast loudly for groups of people
however it bothers me that there's only
a couple of languages you know what
though what we're finding is I mean this
is this is new case is new and Google
for example has through their artificial
intelligence learning engine the machine
that learns language has learned not
only to translate other languages
without being taught but has also
created its own language that is meant
to be a universal language because it
has found correlations between all the
different languages and said here's a
language for the masses that right and
so this being a cloud driven device I
would expect because you're paying a
monthly service fee so it must be
connected it must be tied into some kind
of mega computer that can learn and
evolve if you will perfect for languages
now Google Translate was at one point a
very poor system right now it is
translating into languages that it was
never taught to translate into through
artificial intelligence right see what
there's two things I have to wonder
about this one if you yell louder into
the mic does it amplify the voice that
much more and second is it going to run
into the same issues that Siri had
with certain accents for instance sure
when Siri came out on the iphone it
didn't pick up anybody who was Irish
mm-hmm like if you remember all those
Irish youtube videos where the Douglas
area she's like I don't understand like
it is is this microphone design
megaphone design in such a way that it
will if you have an accent will it pick
it I want to see it in operation in that
busy train station right where it's very
noisy in truth I mean for three of the
four languages are tonal languages
English is the only one that isn't tonal
in that situation I believe right right
so that's an interesting fact I'd your
story reminds me my dad visited me once
when i was living in quebec and he did
not speak one iota of french quebec
right basically french-speaking he just
spoke really loud english and expected
at that point everybody would understand
if i speak loud enough you will
understand me i will yelling that's how
it works that's how it works Sasha I
have to bring up because we live in this
amazing time and and so it really is do
we have translate on here anyone have
the translate app you know to tell you
the truth it's amazing to me in the fact
that like Canada is super inclusive and
we really love all cultures and if a
situation like a translate at become so
easily accessible to everyone it really
would help everybody feel more at home
because I could understand what you're
saying without you stressing out too
much about learning my language sure
like I've got here's google translate on
my phone i can just try this hello how
are you today
hello how are you today for sure and
it's useless come on cell phone should
be let's try again hello how are you
today it crashed well that but in a
split second that's useless I hope that
the megaphone doesn't crash oh come on
Google hello how are you today did you
do it hello how are you today very
poorly example Robbie google has
attempted to implement this whole
Universal Translator thing but as you
can see I'm talking it's detecting my
speech and it's not doing a thing ok
I've got holes uses here we go hello how
are you doing today are you speaking cat
right now that's how it is Wow it
learned from cats no I ok perhaps so
moving along any other landing computers
you need what you need you need a
supercomputer Sasha that's your learn
the top 500 list shows 498 of 500 of the
speediest computers on the planet are
running linux linux has long dominated
the supercomputer ratings but now it's
getting closer to knocking out all its
competition other than systems running
linux there are two chinese super
computers running IBM i AIX a unix
variant this pair tied at 386 and 387
may not be long on the list that's
because supercomputers are growing ever
faster systems running faster than one
petaflop now occupy the first 117
positions nearly a quarter of the top
500 last year there were only 81 at the
bottom of the list the slowest systems
run at 340 9.3 teraflops in november two
thousand five
team the bottom supercomputer ran at two
hundred and six point three teraflops
analysts at ZDNet believe that 430 4.8
teraflops the UNIX system probably won't
be around for another year and Linux
could completely dominate this list by
this time 2017 Microsoft Windows was
bumped off the top 500 one year ago my
brain can't even wrap around the speed
of these computers like I don't even
understand what a Penta flop is kind of
flop I love it is that thing to flop
what it sounds like thank the world's
worst dive your computer's only 400
pedal flops off the list like what I do
what would that do to what would you use
that for way to be for gaming is this a
game huh my goodness Sasha oh my gosh
could you imagine gaming hello sorry
Sasha I I actually can and is going to
be a very high quality virtual reality
see amazing babies things happen this is
used for solving the world's mysteries
you're like how to translate how long pi
is doing all kinds of mathematical
operations that are insane so at some
point I'm computers gonna find the end
of pie maybe and curiously to pie maybe
maybe and maybe translate into more than
three other languages maybe one of those
super computers is going to be used to
run that robot kitchen that emulates
Gordon Ramsay and Sasha's mom I do not
understand why you take such offense to
this kitchen that is going to cook your
grandmother's lasagna till the end of
time dell accidentally put their two
thousand five hundred dollar laptops up
for just thirty three dollars and
mexican officials are forcing them to
honor the sales mexican officials have
ordered dell computers to honor the sale
of laptops that had been mistakenly
advertised online for just 679 pesos
which is 27 pounds or $33 the computers
normally sell for up to fifty thousand
pesos which is
1990 pounds or two thousand five hundred
dollars but because of an apparent
software malfunction only the shipping
costs which was 679 pesos were included
in an advert published earlier this
month when the US company realized the
mistake they promptly cancelled the sale
and offered refunds but buyers
complained some created a facebook group
inviting other buyers to refer the case
to mexico's federal consumer protection
protection agency pro foucault pro foco
agreed to consider the complaints and
said on thursday dell will have to
deliver the equipment offer to the
customers who received an email
confirming the sale before the ad was
withdrawn Wow yes the agency also urged
the company to improve its customer
service mechanisms dell later
acknowledged had made a mistake and said
it was working with the relevant
authorities to rectify it it is not
clear how many computers were sold
before the ad was taken down I really
hope like a lot of people bought this
computer cuz I'm a score that's amazing
that's a black friday times 10 oh my
goodness okay but they're so there's two
bits of information in that story that
make me question it one is they say it
was a software error and then at the end
they say that they're working with the
relevant authorities i don't think that
dell is pleased about the decision yep
what are they gonna do once it's out
there okay there was a woman in the
state i saw this on the news a couple of
weeks ago who want a ridiculous amount
of money at a casino like a stupid
amount of money and the casino
authorities came up to her and said oh
I'm sorry that was an accident here you
can I buy you lunch right you can't you
just you can buy a lunch oopsie my boat
that you're buying
oopsies sorry you're going to have to
pay real price for this computer no it's
online for thirty-three dollars i'm
buying the computer for thirty-three
dollars sorry buck but one thing i need
to know if somebody was in say the west
coast of mexico and it was five o'clock
and they got their email confirmation
and then the email from dell was sent on
their server at three o'clock could they
know how did this turn to that sorry i I
just I had to pull in a timezone
question yes a glass okay but I'm sorry
trading lead if years because I don't
understand time zone yeah yeah I'm
trying I'm trying to keep up with camera
switches here you guys are back and
forth fighting all the time and I'm like
oh Jeff Sasha Jeff Sasha here is the
fear that this instills in my heart on
the deepness of my soul if a company
can't there's two sides to this
absolutely a company will maliciously
post an ad as a door crasher if you will
this is unbelievable and it gets you to
click on and come onto the site and by
yes and then usually like toilet paper
or melt there you go Hannah pushing
button yeah it's usually totally by Bill
allson line it's 25 you combine mallu
our partner links and its core so if
they can do that if they do that then
it's dishonest on their part I don't
know that that's what happened here if
it was in fact a software error where
does it end in that a company now feels
that we cannot make a mistake and if we
make a mistake we are going to pay
through the teeth for this and the fear
with that for me is that it could be
some low-level employee or lower level
employee than the top dog who makes that
mistake and now is in a position where
you know okay am I going to lose my job
over this mistake that just cost the
company millions of dollars yes because
I accidentally pushed to put this up for
thirty-three dollars made that mistake
and because the courts have said
I have to honor that now no it was a
mistake if it was a mistake if they
found that it was malicious advertising
that's a different thing but where is
that line well but that if that's the
case they can just take the employee to
court who maliciously did it but if it
was malicious right but it's no
different than if you walk into a
department store and you purchase
Product X off the shelf and you see that
it's advertised for some stupid discount
and you go up and you check in and
you're like oh sorry that's not what
sells on the shelf so they honor that
how is that any different well I like
the grocery stores where if you find
something for the wrong price they give
it to you for free yeah just put my love
that it's really honest with you because
things are outsourced to such a degree
and things are Sochi so inexpensively
manufactured off-site and overseas
really dell probably isn't getting a
loss on this their laptops probably cost
$33 to make it's just that was our job
the truth comes out they actually just
accidentally posted the cost rather than
the price they're pretty much breaking
even on this speaking of companies doing
country let's yes let's talk about
companies doing malicious things in
order to gain from there right right
MERS office depot and its sister
retailer officemax have stopped using a
technically dubious piece of malware
scanning software after two new services
caught the stores recommending costly
fixes for PC infections that didn't
exist according to an investigation
conducted by que ir o TV news for of
every six or four of six stores in
seattle and portland oregon claimed that
out-of-the-box pcs showed symptoms of
malware that required as much as one
hundred and eighty dollars for repairs
and protection the computers according
to the report had never been connected
to the internet and were diagnosed as
free of malware by security firm I 0
active a separate neat TV news team from
WF x t in boston reported on friday that
the same free scanning service officemax
offers similar
eerily misdiagnosed two of three brand
new pcs is potentially infected
according to an IO active security
researcher who spoke to que ir o PC
health check-up Mills a malware problem
when store employees check any of the
four boxes indicating a customer has
experienced pop-up problems slow speeds
virus warnings or random shutdowns Derek
held the IO active researcher said that
one of when any one of those boxes is
checked malware symptoms is shown in the
report he says it doesn't matter if
anything else was on the report it was
oughta CLE automatic that that shows up
on the report k IRL also reported that
pc health check is sold by support com a
company that along with partner AOL can
agreed to pay 8.5 million 2013 to settle
a lawsuit and alleging they
misrepresented the result of free
malware scans and then charged fees to
fix the non-existent infections these
are big companies oh what malicious the
big retailers come on diculous and evil
why they're basically treating it as
though oh you know you've exposed this
practice that we're oh you're so you're
bad for exposing it yeah and they're
stopping using the software as if they
didn't know that this was the case hey
Dave have you ever had your computer go
slow yeah you've got Malware come on
bring it over I'm going to jog you 180
bucks to fix it for you Oh what you've
never even taken out of the box oh it's
brand new sorry about your loss hundred
and eighty dollars thank you can I think
as people will fall for that because
they they believe the store has good
intention right they would assume that
an industry like that is honest I don't
like you know what in a lot of times
these stores not not even necessarily
looking at this particular store but a
lot of times these stores the the staff
that work behind the counter at the tech
desk aren't technicians right their
sales people so they have a set what is
your computer slow yes okay perfect
you've got Malware I'm going to run this
scam for X number of dollars so they
throw the software in they run the scan
it comes clean just sales yeah all right
here's great news this is the best news
story of all time Microsoft has thrown
its financial weight behind Linux the
operating system that rivals its own
windows it is now spending five hundred
thousand dollars or 400,000 pounds to
join the Linux Foundation which promotes
the open source OS amongst businesses
and developers that's also known as the
lint between their toes yeah $500,000
it's like nothing yeah but yeah let me
talk about that's good that's exploding
other Platinum members include companies
such as Google Facebook and Samsung
Microsoft and Linux have not always seen
eye to eye in 2001 then Microsoft chief
executive Steve Ballmer said in a widely
reported newspaper interview Linux is a
cancer that attaches itself to an
intellectual property sense to
everything it touches however the
company's priorities have changed over
the last 15 years and under its new
leader Satya Nadella much of its current
focus is on the cloud in particular the
is your online storage and data
processing services it sells to other
organizations as the tech blog ZDNet
noted it's only on the desktop that
Microsoft is still omnipresent
everywhere else clouds super computers
and servers it's a Linux world microsoft
said that it wanted to help developers
achieve more and capitalize on the
industry's shift towards cloud first and
mobile first experiences Jim's Emlyn
executive director of the Linux
Foundation said Microsoft has grown and
matured in its use and love and
contributions to open source technology
he goes on to say membership is an
important step for Microsoft but also
the open source community at large which
stands to benefit from the company's
expanding range of contributions so
Microsoft is saying you're welcome linic
you're welcome we're joining you it
seems like the timeline we've had a
timeline of Microsoft tonight so we've
got it starts with Linux is a cancer
that everyone who tries it loves and
wants that's essentially how I heard
that quote yep and then Linux bumped
Microsoft completely off the top 500
servers list for the top 500
supercomputers in the world so the
Microsoft for the past year has not even
been on that list and with Linux has 498
of the slots just and then next along
the line in the timeline of Microsoft
Microsoft joins the Linux Foundation
with its tail between its legs yes yeah
hoping so to get in on that I'm not
surprised that this is happening I mean
sure if you look at desks from Microsoft
standpoint sure out to me in my
perspective it's a good move on
Microsoft's part yes the news tends to
spin it that this is a good thing for
Linux which sure I'm sure there's going
to be contributions there but to me this
is a Linux world now absolutely it is
look at the devices that are running the
internet sure but I mean if you look at
the way that Microsoft has changed the
way they do things I mean they're now
handing out software for free like the
desktop software you can get it free I
mean it spies the crap out of it but
it's free but I mean if you get things
like Microsoft Word it's now no longer
you buy the software and you've got it
forever it's a monthly subscription yeah
so if Microsoft is realizing hey we're
losing bucket loads of money to open
source software that people can snag for
free we need to find another way around
this and so I've been watching Microsoft
for a couple years go to subscription
based services and are walking away from
their one-time fee because they know
that they're gonna get pummeled it's
true scream i love the next I like my
laptop I
of a girl the office i work at who
really loves microsoft and it makes me
grip my teeth cuz i think to myself
because she is just so naive I just
think to myself if all you watch my show
just once not thats my show sorry Robbie
watch me know this is entirely the
sashes Oh every time every time I switch
the cameras back to Jeff and I she's
like give it back you switch to someone
I need to get her a switch a footswitch
that's right I need to be able to switch
the camera yes thanks for watching the
category 5 TV news room don't forget to
Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category 5 TV news
room I'm Sasha dramatis this is my show
you
