tell us a little bit about your
multimedia situation okay so we've
slowly been eliminating cable type
services from our house over the years
like the TV network like that and so
it's been you know first we had a
Western Digital player for first reviews
in the PlayStation 4 all of our DVDs and
blu-rays and so okay and I will
prematurely wear it out yep and then
PlayStation did an update and some of
our blu-rays would no longer play so
that's nice of them
yeah so we had to get a new system so we
got a Western Digital something rather
like a TV box from Western did you yeah
something so we've been using that for a
while but that had limitations and we
couldn't you know cast to it like you
could with a chromecast so then we got a
red phone cast but then because of the
show I keep hearing about Roku and our
Western Digital we've had it now for
four years and it's starting to fail so
I'm like okay we need something else
yeah but with all of that we only have
the one external hard drive and so
what's been happening is it's like well
the kids are playing a playstation here
so now we're gonna move the external
hard drive to this TV and so this is
your actually monitor oh man and I would
assume that you're running into problems
with compatibility of certain videos yes
that happens as well so some players
will play the AVI some won't some
playing before some won't and it got to
the point where my wife was just
frustrated she's like I don't know what
plays and what doesn't and something
like well let me see if I can find
something that works so I asked you
about retro or yeah the with the
Raspberry Pi playing flex media we're
gonna get into what Plex is and how it
works and we're actually going to
install it on your Raspberry Pi for you
yeah I think it's our responsibility as
men to take care of all the techno blips
in our household in the event that our
wife is frustrated absolutely of course
there are some very savvy women as well
I'm not saying that but as the tech guru
in my household yeah I take a real pride
and making sure that stuff works yep and
it doesn't always lets a cobbler in a
shoot and the kids with their old shoes
it sometimes happens that way yeah it's
got to run smoothly so one of the things
about plex
first of all is it is a transcoder
engine what that means is you've got one
server or computer or system in this
case going to be a Raspberry Pi 3 that
acts as the connection for all of your
devices so your chromecast connects to
it to watch the shows your your Roku 2
connects to it to watch the shows and by
doing that this server makes sure that
the file format going to those devices
are the right format for that device to
play so be it an AVI and m4v any file
format that you can throw at it really
you put it on plex instead of your
device itself right so then when I click
on plex and I browse through my library
from my Roku
even though Roku may not be able to play
AVI files you know natively right plex
will convert it on the fly without you
ever having to see it happen
instantaneously in the amount of time
that it takes to go loading it will
convert it to the format that you need
for watching it seamlessly on your Roku
device and that works on all of your
devices as far as I know yet to find a
current device that it doesn't play on
it'll work on your phone you can install
the Plex app and you can access it there
and then you can cast it to your
chromecast which is awesome and you can
use your Roku and you can use your
computer through the browser and while
also I was reading it will also allow
you to access it remotely will or not if
you set it up in your firewall you could
yeah yes now as far as performance goes
through the Internet that's gonna be
limited to your internet connections
upstream and typically upstream for
Internet is relatively low compared to
your downstream the service providers
expect that you're doing more
downloading than uploading so streaming
from plex out to the world is going to
use a lot of your your bandwidth but in
house it gives you a centralized
place for all of your media in a very
accessible format I'm excited
think of it like your own personal
Netflix your home movies and it looks
area - it really does yeah I think I I
think I brought a little media library
with me let's see here I always carry
some USB sticks with me there we go
that's got some media so we're gonna use
that for testing tonight effect we've
got your Raspberry Pi that you brought
in 20 minutes before the show yep I've
plugged it in it's up and running there
it is and what we're going to do is
we're gonna actually set this up as a
plex media server so this little device
can be in the closet somewhere plugged
into Ethernet or even on Wi-Fi although
I would recommend that you use Ethernet
if you can and that is because if you've
got the kids watching it on the TV and
you're watching it on your phone and
your tablet or whatever else
Wi-Fi bandwidth as you know is not as
fast and reliable as Ethernet right that
said the Raspberry Pi 3 has 802 11 n so
it's very very fast Wi-Fi but that
doesn't mean that your wireless in house
is going to be able to handle that on a
bandwidth so so first of all we we
started talking about you may be pulling
out your old computer and turning it
into a plex server yes immediately I
said I don't know if it's gonna be able
to do it because it does have to do all
that transcoding on the fly it's got a
powerful desktop yeah yeah so I got
looking at the the Roku 3 part of the
Roku 3 the Raspberry Pi 3 we're gonna be
throwing out a bunch of crazy brands
tonight so if I slip you can correct me
and laugh at me we've got the Raspberry
Pi 3 and I got looking at the
specifications at 1.2 gigahertz with a
quad core processor it's pretty darn
fast
the the PI right out of the box has a
gig of ram it's got a great video a good
performing video device so it really
would
well not only could it be just the
server in the back room but maybe you
plug it into one of your TV's as well
and it becomes the Plex on that TV right
while all the other ones connect to it
so that's pretty brilliant so jumping
over to our PI and I'm gonna do my best
with this because I'm actually I've got
keyboards all over the place I got
keyboards and mice and I'm gonna try to
hit the right ones here okay so on my on
your PI I should say let's first of all
jump into our terminal and what we're
looking at here is raspbian this is
debian so what we want to do is sudo
apt-get update this is the very first
thing and this is vanilla raspbian okay
so this is typical debian instructions
it's wrath razz raspbian Jesse Debbie
and Jesse and this is a free download
from Raspberry Pi org probably came
pre-installed a lot of the PI units even
come with it pre-installed if he's got a
cat5 dot TV slash pi you'll get a micro
SD card that has raspbian already pre
set up for us alright so looking at that
it's just getting my sources list and
updating that's the very first thing
that you want to do next step of course
is we want to do sudo apt-get upgrade
that's going to go through our package
list and make sure that everything is up
to date you'll notice that it says
there's nothing to install on my system
and that's because just to save you some
time tonight I pre did that before the
show sudo apt-get dist - upgrade is the
very next and final thing that we want
to type in there and there we go so
we've got all our updates now that
process is probably going to take
several minutes maybe a half hour to an
hour for you if you've never run those
commands because it's going to have to
download all the latest packages and the
latest kernel and everything gets
installed on your Raspberry Pi it's
important that you do that we had a talk
before the show about the firmware yes
and your Sony Playstation you've got a
firmware that broke it well I prefer
firmwares that fix things and that's
what happens on the Raspberry Pi so with
that upgrade you're actually getting the
next the problem with Bluetooth when it
first came out which we're not gonna be
using bluetooth on the device no but we
know that bluetooth the the bug that was
there in the kernel was causing
instability on the Raspberry Pi 3 yes
that's all a thing of the past
so by upgrading we now have a working
pirate
so now the final step here is sudo
reboot and hit enter and that's gonna
restart our Raspberry Pi there we go
well let's zoom out a little bit here
nice and zippy eh so as I say this is
just a vanilla install of raspbian jesse
black screen as we wait for it don't
worry folks
there it is ok alright let's get back
into our terminal and this is where the
fun begins and hey I want to remind you
if you're watching the show live get
into our chat room category-five on
freenode so jump on back to our
Raspberry Pi it has booted up and we've
got our terminal back up and running
here so next thing that we need to do is
we need to set up now for some reason
I'll just say raspbian does not have the
ability out of the box to have HTTP
sources in your sources dot list okay so
what that means is your repositories are
all going through an HTTP connection we
want to change that we want to fix it so
that we can use secure connections so
the way that we do that is sudo apt-get
install and there's this package in
Debian and it's called apt transport
HTTP just like that with the hyphens at
apt - transport - HTTP and hit enter
that's going to download that tool that
package automatically and install it on
our system so now our our apt sources
dot list can contain HTTP repositories
that's important because the repository
we're going to be tapping into tonight
for for our plex media server is going
to be using a secure transport ok so
jumping back there it's already done
nice and quick so the next step is that
we need to actually add a repository and
this one comes to us from University at
Leipzig in germ
so we need to go into CD e.t.c apt and
then we're gonna go sudo nano sources
dot list and there's our current file
for raspy ins repositories and we want
to add this particular repository which
is HTTP oh I probably want to go Deb
don't I yep
Deb so watch this and don't worry I'm
gonna actually put this information in
the comments below so if you lose this
or if you can't follow what I'm typing
on the screen make sure you just copy
and paste that's another way you can do
it okay so we're going HTTP remember
that we installed the transport for that
and we're going to dev to de de
that's a server host at Universitat
leipzig and we're gonna go PMS which
guys come on now that stands for plex
media server / dev - day - PMS dot oh no
sorry no just I'm getting ahead of
myself I'm looking at the key slash PMS
there we go
space Jessie main and I should probably
have a trailing slash there as well
just to be sure okay so if I've got that
right and I run an apt get update get
update sudo I'm gonna get a warning that
I don't have the key and that's where I
was getting ahead of myself I need to
install their key so watch this and you
definitely want to get that key because
then now it's connecting it looks like
it's working
Heywood applause 98% okay so you see
that GPG error
yes it's basically telling me we can't
confirm that this particular repository
is who they say they are
it's HTTP but we don't know their prior
their public key so we don't have any
way to confirm that yeah this is
actually them
we want to add that key to our system to
our raspberry pie and that's going to
protect us just in case somebody goes
and you know tries to pretend that they
are them so the way that we do that is
go let's go into /tmp there I go
I literally for those of you in the chat
room I literally just type that into the
chat room that's what happens when I've
got several keyboards here okay CD /tmp
because we're gonna W get a file so W
get - OH
- this is a nice little command for you
HTTP colon slash slash dev - des de /
PMS slash and here's where I was de vie
- de -
PMS gpgc I could download that to temp
and that's fine and then I could use
sudo apt key to add it but why don't we
do it all in one fell swoop let's pipe
it with a pipe why is it giving me a
tilde oh I think it's thinking that I
have some kind of French keyboard nope
that was an exclamation point
oh come on Raspberry Pi do we have a
keyboard detection somewhere my keyboard
doesn't have a pipe so let's do it the
let's do it the old-fashioned way and
we'll just download that there we go so
now we actually have a file in our to
/tmp that is that file which was what
did I save it - dev - des - PMS no I
didn't output it should let's remove
that - there I'm only doing this because
my pipe doesn't work
oh sorry I need to change my command
okay so I'm gonna actually download that
key to my current folder now I have a
copy of it
- OH means output to this particular
file name and then - just means output
it to the screen okay okay so so we're
having to work around that so now if I
go sudo apt key add and then the file
name I believe is the syntax there we go
okay so it says okay so you could have
gotten around that by doing it all in
one fell swoop by doing this let's
pretend there's a pipe there okay so
that's the vertical line and then you
could just go sudo apt key dat
apt key add - okay so that's where you
could do it differently we've had to do
it by downloading it first and then
adding it there manually okay
so not all that complicated but let's
run sudo apt-get update again and you'll
see now because we have that key we're
not going to have that GPG error at the
end there so here we go so we're looking
at a debian repository this repository
is containing the plex media server
installer application for debian which
will run on our raspberry pi so that is
see there was no air so now I can
actually install that so we can go sudo
apt-get install and we want to actually
tell it that we're using the Jesse
folder or the Jesse branch of this
repository so we type - t space jesse
and then simply plex media server just
like that should find it there we go
it's asking me if I want to install it
it's gonna install plex media server and
plex media server - installer I'll say
yes and there we go so what it's doing
now Jeff is it's actually downloading
plex media server off of that repository
that we added and it's installing it on
our Raspberry Pi exciting
it's pretty cool stuff all right there
we go it's all done so all you're
talking Jeff over the news gave us
enough time to install Plex Media Server
it was actually done during the first
story ah there you go
okay so now that we've installed plex
media server as we demonstrated here the
next step is to simply reboot sudo
reboot our Raspberry Pi and there we go
so it's going to go through that reboot
process
why do you expect that we want to do
that well fact is this your plex media
server is a web server of sorts so there
are so many different things being
installed in different packages that are
being activated that rebooting is going
to make sure that all of those are up
and running and working well so it's a
good step at the end of it to reboot and
also your Raspberry Pi is a micro SD
card so rebooting syncs the file system
and make sure that if there is a power
outage or something that the file system
is you know everything's saved speaking
of your micro sd one of the things that
you could do Jeff is you could purchase
something like a 128 gigabyte micro sd
they come like they're really it's
really tiny and yet really huge look at
the size of this chip and for those who
have been in computing as long as me I
find it amazing that that has 128
gigabytes of storage on it yeah
considering that like a one megabyte
hard drive was an entire wall back forty
years my rll hard drives were 20
megabytes and they were three they were
like this three 3u is what it was called
so the whole bay of the front of your
computer they're huge but very tiny
capacity wise now it's the complete
opposite so that said you could if you
wanted to put your media library on the
Raspberry Pi so that you don't have to
connect external devices you could buy a
larger capacity estimate card the
advantage to that of course is that you
don't have to have wires coming out the
disadvantages microSD is going to be
ring reading and writing as you watch
videos and so you're going to you're
going to reduce the life of your micro
sd card because it's the operating
system it's nice to just have it running
and then have your actual media
streaming from another device so you can
use an external
drive that would be what I do so we've
got a 32 gigabyte chip in there my
microSD that's got just our operating
system in Plex now and we're gonna use
external devices to store our actual
media files an external USB hard drive
can be 3 4 8 terabytes I mean whatever
you want to do and just keep keep your
media on that and then you can access it
from your plex device
ok so let's jump back over this is
finished booting up and now there's
nothing really to do on that screen if I
bring up my actual computer now so it's
completely separate system I should be
able to now access that raspberry pi
plex server through my computer's web
browser because I'm on the same network
right ok the one thing that I do need
however is I need to know the IP address
of the Raspberry Pi quick way that I
could do that is to actually bring up
the terminal and type sudo ifconfig and
you'll see a list of the different
networking devices and I can see that my
network on Ethernet is 192.168.0.1 oh
five so if we jump over to my computer
let's go to 192.168.0.1 oh five and then
we need to specify the port and the
default port on a plex media server is
you need to memorize this 3 - 4 0 0
alright and then slash web you're gonna
want to bookmark that now this is the
moment of truth
so I'm pausing purposefully because if
all went well and I'm hoping it did our
Raspberry Pi should now be a plex media
server alright it's ready I'm gonna hit
enter on this and they're good through
my browser I now have Plex running I can
hit f11 and make it fullscreen and
that's a beautiful device okay so we're
gonna agree to this and we need to sign
in so this is your device Jeff so what
we're gonna actually do is I'm going to
get you to use your username and
password this one
the keyboard it's actually this keyboard
this keyboard is the Raspberry Pi right
we're actually connecting from our
computer so I won't bring it up on the
screen because that's private so he's
just logging in with a pre-existing Plex
account so you see that there is a sign
up option there as well so you've
obviously already gone through that now
how did you find that process oh it's
really quick really easy and did it cost
you money to do that the flex is free
yeah media server is free was free I
think the app was 595 and what did you
install that on my iPhone okay and you
installed it on your Roku 2 as well yeah
okay so now you've got plex client on
your phone and your Roku 2 yes which are
now going to connect into your plex
media server which is the Raspberry Pi
right ok so let's go through the steps
together Jeff this is giving us an
introduction to plex pass it tells you
that you can sign up for monthly service
and this is what you're going to get do
you want these things you can decide
whether you want to or not I'm gonna say
you know what no we're not going to
today but you can always add that at any
point ok give it a friendly name so that
you have a way to identify Plex in your
app so let's call this our plex media
server does that work can you have
spaces let's give it a go
ok so allow me access to my media
outside of my home there's that question
that you had Plex will attempt to
automatically configure your network to
allow access to your plex media server
from plex apps outside of your home nice
so it's gonna actually use automatic
features to be able to configure your
router for you with you PNP for example
something along those lines to pre
configure your router that's beautiful
you want that I do alright let's go next
this is exciting now just a comment good
guy 98 in the chatroom is saying that
Rass Plex is also a plex client for pi
so you could purchase more Raspberry Pi
units which have a beautiful HDMI output
I know it's 1080p it may might be higher
than that is it 2.7 K
think it's 1080 okay you can look that
up but so you get full HD anyways at the
very least and so you can you can
actually install that as your OS on a
Raspberry Pi and keep in mind this is
the raspberry this Raspberry Pi 3 is our
plex media server this is the one that's
doing all the encoding so it's doing the
hard work you could probably get away
with running was it called rasp Plex
comm rasp Plex comm with only one P RAS
ple XCOM with that you could install
that on a Raspberry Pi to save yourself
some coinage
yep and it will most I would assume is
going to run great anyways because all
the encoding the transcoding is
happening on here that said if you don't
mind paying the extra get the Raspberry
Pi 3 it's 66% faster than the Raspberry
Pi 2
it's an exponentially faster than the
the first gen Raspberry Pi so if you can
do it grab a bunch of those
so with that you can then now you've set
up clients all over your house you've
got one tape to the back of your TV and
you're good to go all of your systems
have Plex on them and whatever else you
want to have on it and so that's pretty
decent tonight we're just looking at the
server component and we are accessing it
through our web browser the next thing
is it's asking us to add our media
library which we don't presently have so
that's where we say ok now we want our
media library I've got my USB flash
drive right I wouldn't suggest using a
USB flash drive for this on an ongoing
basis because again like a micro SD card
you're gonna prematurely wear your USB
flash drive you might want to have a
good solid external hard drive be it a
spinning or an SSD it's gonna work is
it's just they're built for a constant
reads and writes right
more so than something like this is
which is meant to store a couple
documents on transfer to your laptop and
then remove them so ok so I'm gonna plug
this into the Raspberry Pi here there
are four USB ports so you've got plenty
of space the Raspberry Pi doesn't need
anything other than
your Ethernet okay okay so you don't
have to have it plugged into a TV you
don't have to have a keyboard plugged
into it now that we're done setting it
up we can actually use SSH - now remote
into it and configure things that's true
but you know what it is nice to be able
to use the GUI and when I plugged in
that removable media you see that it
actually it actually found it and it's
got it so let's open it in file manager
and you'll see that it actually threw it
in slash media slash PI slash and then
this ec so on and so forth so that
device is now detected and ready to go
okay so you'll see that I actually have
this is the Raspberry Pi screen I
actually have all this stuff on here so
in my home movies folder I've got let's
see that is an MPEG video you see at the
bottom there mpg I've got one that is an
MTS which you're gonna have trouble
playing on a lot of connected devices
and I've got a WMV three very different
file formats Windows Media format you
know sometimes you need to install
encoders and decoders and things like
that so we're gonna see if this is going
to work right out of the box with plex
so this is just a very basic media
library that I've created you you see
that I've sorted these Jeff into home
videos movies music and TV shows right
right the reason for that is I actually
want to set up each of those folders as
a different media library on plan okay
so that I don't have home movies
intertwined with my movies library makes
sense and you can even go a step further
if your library is huge and break it up
into categories so I have TV shows drama
TV shows crime TV shows sci-fi okay and
those are individual folders which I've
added individually to Plex right okay
okay so now from my interface this is my
web browser on my computer okay
so I'm actually looking at this through
my web browser connected into the
Raspberry Pi I'm gonna click add library
because I now know that my plex media
server here has that USB Drive plugged
in I can set that up and remember this
is Debian right so I could set that up
in FS tab so that it automatically
mounts
to the same place every time but I'm
plugging it in and leaving it in so it's
always gonna be the same it's got the
same the same ID and everything right so
that's fine but if you want if you have
any trouble with it changing or if you
change the drive the drive name is going
to change so then you can go in to do a
quick Google search or search in your
favorite search engine for permanent
mount external hard drive FS tab
filesystem table that's what it stands
for and that will show you how to do
that it's nice and easy and we've
actually covered it several times on the
show here so I'm not gonna I'm not gonna
do that tonight
but in this case so now let's let's
start with movies okay so we're gonna
call this movies we can name it whatever
we like so this is where you could say
movies sci-fi right ok but I've got all
of them in one folder so i'm gonna click
Next
browse for your media folder now we know
that that is in well look at that it's
put it right there
let's see what we can find does this let
me go right into it let's try going into
slash media pie where's my media come on
is it just taking time to think or oh no
they're excited then if you hit add
library that's the whole drive though
okay well it's scanning everything
that's movies let's let's actually go
into plex cuz we're looking at yeah
let's let's actually go next without
adding a library ok and skip over this
whole step send anonymous usage down at
the plex I'm ok with that are you ok
with that Jeff yeah sure what this is
gonna help them to develop it ok so now
that I'm in plex let's try adding a
library here and see if it's any
different as far as what we get Oh what
about add folders we'll see when I click
Next it selects that oh now I can browse
for it and it's not showing me the whole
folder tree
I'm looking folks now what if you
clicked your USB through in your slash
your forward slash and then typed I
could grat let's see if okay let's go
over here and let's say okay Home Videos
okay normally this would be incredibly
seamless I may be the USB you know what
let's Jeff can I go with the FS tab
route just because it's because yeah
we're allowing this to automatically
mount itself so let's actually cancel
out of that and I am going to show you
that after all I wasn't intend intending
to but let's do it
let's do it that way okay so what we
know is that this drive is currently
mounted so if we go to our terminal nice
thing about a being mounted as we can
find out the device ID really really
easy by clicking by typing and if I type
it in the right window here sudo mount
and that's gonna show us the device is
did it to do there it is dev slash SDA
one okay so I'm gonna remember that dev
slash SDA one do you see what I'm seeing
there I see it it is looking in media
slash pie that's the the actual mount
point okay so I'm gonna unmount that
sudo you mount dev note pardon me media
PI EC 32 and now it's unmounted okay so
it's gone from my system but I know that
it was dev slash SDA one so sudo nano et
CFS tab let's actually make it a part of
our filesystem I think that's probably
gonna work better for us so the first
thing that we do here this is the
filesystem table this tells our
Raspberry Pi what drives to look for and
mount at boot time right okay so this is
always going to be the same so all we
need to do is tell it what what we're
mounting and where so first of all we're
gonna say
dev slash SDA one was the drive name and
then hit tab and then we're gonna tell
it where we want to mount it now we
haven't created a mount point yet but we
will so what we're gonna do we're gonna
call it /mnt
slash library and do not forget that
because you're gonna need to actually
create that mount point if this is a
fat32 Drive so we're gonna use vfat if
it's NTFS you would use NTFS if it's ext
four or three you do that as as it would
be you can read the man pages or just do
a quick search on the internet for FS
tab for the formatting we're gonna use
defaults for this and we're gonna go 0-0
and what that does is it says when I
boot up my computer the raspberry pi
don't scan this thing don't go through a
file system check or anything like that
just just letter boot okay so if I
control o to save that because I used
Nano and now I need to create that mount
library so CD /mnt
there's nothing there so sudo make dur
library okay so now there's a folder
here that is empty and we're gonna
create a mount point out of it one thing
that I love to do before I mount
anything on a mount point is I use
chatter plus I and then the the mount
point okay I need to be super user to do
that so now when I go into the library
folder you'll notice it still looks the
same but if I try to touch a file it
will fail okay the reason that I do that
is because my mount point if the drive
is for some reason not mounted I don't
want things accidentally being saved to
the mount point right as opposed to the
drive because then when I do plug in the
drive it will fail to mount because
there's stuff in the mount point right
so I've just stopped it from being able
to write to the mount point when it is
not mounted okay so now if I type sudo
mount - a4 mount Hall now if I do an LS
is it grabbing it sudo oh you know what
I need to get out of the folder because
the chatter go back into it there it is
okay so now if I touch test sudo touch
test because it's owned by root it
created the file just fine okay sudo RM
test so now we need to change the
ownerships here to PI so we're going to
go sudo CH on PI
are for recursive pie-pie i think is
right and then we're gonna go library
changing ownership operation not
permitted did I use Super User do we all
set the permissions why would it not let
me change the ownership might be
read-only which is fine dev sta it's
readwrite no it is obviously readwrite
okay well that's not I love it when I
you know start showing you something and
then fails and it really doesn't
actually matter because we're only
reading from this drive anyways it is
our video library so you know I don't
want to spend time figuring out
permissions and things I could see a if
I was writing to this for some other
reason I could change the ownership I
could change the permissions I don't
really think it matters what we want to
know is now can flex mount from /mnt
slash library so that's where we go back
to our computer here and let's try
adding a library movies we're gonna call
it movies we're gonna browse for media
folder and let's hope MNT library look
at that there you have it okay so we've
learned something here tonight together
folks that it's good to not trust the
GUI do it through the terminal do it the
right way use FS tab mount it properly
and as I say we are only reading from
this drive so I don't need to worry
about the permissions if you do you can
use chmod CH own to set the permissions
I'm not too sure what they should be on
a PI but it doesn't matter in this
particular instance and we can deal with
that on another episode so let's go into
movies because this is our movies folder
and we're gonna add so now add library
and you're going to see it has no
content but it just suddenly picked up
the prestige ok so there's nothing there
there's no thumbnails nothing that's
fine let's go home and we see a movies
and oh what's it doing it's spinning its
wheels nice ok let's add another library
so we're gonna go over here libraries
and click on the plus we're gonna go TV
shows and
called TV shows we're gonna go next
we're gonna browse to our library which
is in /mnt library and TV shows and add
okay so you notice that one actually had
a subfolder did you notice that right at
the last moment there yeah Doctor Who is
in a subfolder okay and that's cool too
it doesn't have to be in the top level
it can be all organized for you add
library now TV shows are a little bit
different because they have to conform
to the formatting of s01e01 for season 1
episode 1 right if you don't have that
formatting Plex will not know how to
deal with it it won't know what it is
okay so when you add a show make sure
you include s01e01 s01e02 right s02 for
season 2 e 0 1 no spaces in that all
caps
all right that's important so you'll
notice that that that started importing
dr. who
season 1 okay let's go home again and
let's oh look at that the prestige is
loaded we're gonna look a little closer
at that in a couple of moments time
notice I didn't have to do anything or
tell it anything other than just add my
library let's add again and we're gonna
go home videos okay this is important
that you use the home videos category
because Plex is not going to know where
my daughter going to the Strawberry
Festival is as far as cover art and
descriptions and things so we're gonna
select Home Videos and then browse for
our media folder go into where we
created our mount point and there it is
okay add library and now we've got a
handful that are gonna be loading in
next up add another library and I wanted
to also show you that Plex supports
music playback not just videos so let's
go next and browse to our music folder
on my media MNT library music and we see
a few CDs they're organized into
subfolders so what do we want to do
create a basic music library or we can
if we want pay for a premium Plex music
library which gives us access to artwork
artists BIOS additional stuff so there
are advantages and you read the details
about why you might want to subscribe to
Plex pass
right right now we're gonna create a
basic library where do you want to
import the info from from itunes
included in your dashboard use embedded
tags yeah you might want to do that and
when scanning your library use embedded
tags if present using the agent personal
media artists or last.fm last.fm of
course if they're kind of official CDs
if it's private music that you've
created yourself personal media artists
would be the one and go through and
choose set it up how you want you can
always delete and recreate the library
it's not gonna actually delete your
media right okay so now I've got some
home videos here screenshot it's created
a screenshot from the video let's look
at the prestige so when I click on it we
see a couple of different things we see
that the community of Plex users and
online have given it four out of five
stars we see the rating we see the
category the year the description actors
everything and even the quality here and
then we can just click play now remember
I'm looking at this through my browser
we're streaming this from a Roku 3 it's
put it into full-screen mode and if all
goes well this is kind of the moment of
truth right because we're doing a lot on
that raspberry pi 3 yeah there's a lot
of loading going on right now there is a
ton of stuff going on right now because
we're importing and and it's accessing
the internet and getting cover art and
everything but it's playback is look
beautiful and smooth so that file I'm
not even sure what file format it was
but it's playing so let's go into my
home media library so this is our
dashboard this is showing us you know
the current and the most recently added
stuff but over on the left-hand panel
here I can actually go into movies music
TV shows or home videos and those are
the folders that I created so if I click
on home videos you'll actually see the
videos so if I click play now on one of
these it'll tell me the name of it when
it was filmed the quality and so on okay
so hit play and remember that this these
formats for the home videos were all
different formats okay
so right now as we wait for this moment
Plex is actually saying okay what's the
current format of the file
what are you streaming at to what do I
need to convert it to
on the fly in order to play it to this
particular device and there it goes
look at that brilliant Wow your kids are
so little they're so tiny okay so now
let's let's go back and let's click on
the one that was the I'm assuming the
third one was the WMV file yes oh it
says WMA - so there you go so click on
that and let's see what what happens you
know Ken Plex play WMV to my devices and
the answer is yes it's a Ken because it
transcodes on the fly and that's what we
did tonight was create that Raspberry Pi
plex media server which is allowing it
right now as it thinks to convert that
to a format that's playable on my device
well there you go
wow it says ok the server is not
powerful enough to convert this video
for smooth playback ok so that is so
that's the answer to is the Raspberry Pi
powerful enough for this it may have
some stuttering issues so what could
cause that one ready for this it's gonna
surprise you I have a slow USB flash
drive that I'm using there right that
would make sense ok get a fast USB Drive
USB like look at the specs of it the
read speed should be super fast that's
where again an external hard drive is
going to perform way better however
looking at Plex we can actually go into
the settings on the fly and change the
bitrate that ok so on the fly I can
actually downgrade the bitrate to
something lower so that it's going to
play a little bit better on my device if
you hit snags if you have trouble that's
a possibility for you as well so upgrade
that hard drive make sure it's a nice
fast one the external hard drive is
going to be the best option for you
let's see if this plays any better at at
a lower bitrate here as we wrap up our
special tonight on creating a plex media
server using a Raspberry Pi 3 and it is
working fantastically well Jeff I want
to know how it runs with your external
hard drive so let's go for sure it is
going to perform even better with that
because of the media is going to be a
lot faster excited about this and there
you have it
Wow so times it is taking a little
longer to transcode to a lower bitrate
because it's got to think and pro you
know it's got it right do all that but I
think the Raspberry Pi is gonna do it
folks and you know what is really
beautiful about the Raspberry Pi you can
set it up you can play around you can do
all this stuff and then you can throw a
different SD card in it then or a retro
wipe yeah or wipe the SD card and and
put something else on it there's there's
really no limit to what you can do the
performance issues that I have right now
with transcoding guaranteed those are
going to be at least improved by
upgrading the hard drive because I'm
just using a cheap USB 2.0 flash drive
right and I mean it was still processing
thing as well I'm seeing it on the
screen finished processing this finish
processing this so I mean it's doing a
lot less if we go back here and you'll
see now there's our music library it's
got the cover art even though we don't
have a special account doctor who if I
go into the Doctor Who folder you see
that the episodes themselves have loaded
yep and continue to load and in fact it
will show me this will continue to load
out finished processing it just said so
let's see if it gives us more
information now as it loads it's
actually saving the information about
this particular series so eventually you
know within the next little you know 20
minutes or so we're gonna have a full
description of the episode we're gonna
have the reflective movie just like the
movie yeah yeah so the whole thing all
that information towards the episode on
an episode by episode basis jumping back
to our plex media server you know click
on piano guys and there's all the music
you can click on a particular song and
it's going to start playing and there
you go it's it's your all-round
multimedia device for home and that's
plex media server the device itself is
the Raspberry Pi 3 get it at cat 5 dot
TV slash PI spelled P I and of course
plex media server if you follow the
directions tonight it's free to install
and then you just need that app for your
devices to be able to play it 6 bucks so
you get a Roku 2 you throw it on there
for a couple bucks and you're good to go
for life yep
you
