Jeff Weston one of our hosts here in
category 5 TV posted this on Facebook
this week due to completely avoidable
but truly unfortunate mishap my children
are in the market for a new Playstation
3 I can't find any new ones for under
$250 seeing as the kids are paying for
it
I need a lower price any ideas yep chef
what happened man so I've got a mantle
is that the PlayStation since I replace
mantle yeah it's above the fireplace
okay
PlayStation sits there yeah all is good
it is secure it is safe the kids have
been told when your controller dies and
you plug it into the cable yeah you do
not use it to play on the PlayStation
gotcha use one of our other controllers
did they listen Jeff I would
it is painful me to say that they did
not listen they decided hey let's keep
playing PlayStation and with it plugged
in and then one of them moved a foot too
far back oh no and it fell 6 feet and
bricked and there we have it I don't
down see the screen behind me it reads
cannot start the appropriate system
storage was not found and this is all
you get that was all I got and so uh the
deal the deal was with my kids that I
will share possible yes because it is
completely avoidable and it's 107 their
fault they will not be getting a new
Playstation until such time as they can
save up the money for 75% of the cost
and then I will pay 25% of the cost so
yeah computer well I I care too much
about your kids to see that happen we're
going to see if we can fix this tonight
I hope we can okay and then you will be
like Rob you're watching so that I
become your favorite and I hope we can
pull this off okay so we've got this
PlayStation 3 here and you know it's
it's it's an old unit and and the fact
is is that if you're going to find one
new it'ld luck for one thing but it a
pretty good pen you might as well buy a
ps4 so why we've had to see asteroid
years I think but the rear so I was
looking at going for peace ps3 but
they're crazy expensive yeah like the
cheapest I could find online for new
because I'm not really interested in
used sure new was 250 bucks
I found out he hasn't that's not
terrible no it's not terrible I thought
a ps4 for 350 and so I thought ok old ok
that puts it into me no active we might
why not a ps4 because I've got all disc
ps3 games and even digital versions of
games and I have a couple on here you
need to run an update with that may
incur some extra charges to the game to
get ps4 compatibility but a ps4 does not
run the ps3 discs so I would have to get
all new discs and everything and I'm new
games you'd have to buy new games what
exactly yeah quickly scrap in your
entire game collection yeah so ok this
this warning message this error message
jeff says cannot start because the
appropriate system storage was not sound
so yeah we have to assume that the hard
drive that's built into the PlayStation
is probably damaged or something's
happened six foot fall I assume so yeah
and what does the hard drive have on it
like is it I believe it's 250 gig yeah
there's oh there's like three or four
games I think on there ok so which is
not a big deal to be on hold those again
yeah but it's fact that this thing's
bricked and if I got a break hard drive
there's not so much the data that's on
the drive necessarily in your case more
it's the fact that it just doesn't work
well yeah and is it just the hard drive
I mean there's there's also processors
in there are they broken are there any
cables get bored in they're broken like
I just a lazy reader and ok oh yeah how
many things can go wrong and ok so the
good news is is when I look at this it
doesn't look like it's been physically
damaged so they're not it's not like
it's been crushed or cracked or broken
in half so chances are pretty darn good
that the mainboard in there it's a
computer in references right and it is
starting up yeah I powered on yeah yeah
so the mainboard from what I can see
here is is most likely going to be just
fine it's a pretty solid state device
things are built into it they're not
like you don't have
it's not like a laptop where the RAM
modules can come out and got to reseat
them and everything and that's part of
the whole idea of a console is it's a
solid-state kind of system so that way
it's you're not going to lose sorry we
just had a little bit of a problem there
and I apologize for those who are
watching live but our internet is just a
little bit wonky so I'll give you a
second to to reconnect so because it's
so it's built to be so solid-state you
don't have the fear of like a processor
popping off of the socket for Oh careful
okay computer yeah that could not
definitely happen with this particular
device I don't think we're going to see
that as an issue so that said it could
happen you could have internal damage
but we're not going to take that
approach out the gate because it's
pretty tedious to pull the whole thing
apart not interact yeah there's a lot of
videos online if you if you do get to
the point where you you need to
disassemble the whole thing you're going
to need a special type of screwdriver
and and there are lots of videos online
to help you with that
tonight because it's saying that we've
got a storage system problem that's
really what we're going to look at right
see what we can do now I've got an F J
cam here all set up let's see if I have
if I fire this up Jeff we should be able
to actually see some close-ups and we'll
see how that works here we go whoo ah
make sure it's the right way there we go
all right so we've got a PlayStation 3
here yep now the only damage that I can
really see Jeff is kind of like well on
the bezel here yeah so it doesn't look
like we're we're you know looking at
look a completely destroyed system yeah
exactly
we know that the hard the hard drive is
probably the biggest thing so first of
all thinking of the PlayStation 3 or any
kind of console device it's essentially
a computer so we don't want to start
messing with it we don't want to be
turning it on seeing if it comes back
turn it on again turn it on right back
on because if the heads of your hard
drive and let's look at what a hard
drive actually looks like internally and
this is an image that was provided by
let's see Remo software so you see that
read/write head yep
that's a part of the drive that reads
the magnetic platters and if that has
grooved itself into the platter and you
keep turning and on turning off that
platter is going to spin that's going to
cause itching into the platter itself
it's going to cause permanent
unrestorable damage to the hard drive
and you can see it's basically you know
think about an old record player and the
way that those would be exactly and so
if you scratch the needle into it it's
going to damage it and it's never going
to play right again right and it's funny
because when this happened I was looking
at a couple blog posts or something you
know what could be done and a lot of
them were saying turn it off turn it
back on our button and I'm going same
thing with your note or it's not going
to do it just don't do it so smart move
so what do we want to do we want to get
the hard drive out of it and we want to
do two things we're not going to do them
at the same time we're going to find out
if the hard drive works okay we're going
to find out if we can get the data off
of it and if we can we're going to do
that but we're also in the process of
that going to find out if it is damaged
if we need to replace it if there's
going to be any ongoing problems like if
it did hit the platter you might have
some really bad sector exactly going to
cause a problem down the road yeah so
let's get into it as I say we've got
this tiny little camera here let's see
if I can give you a bit of a better view
okay so Jeff we've got this little tab
here which you can pull that up and I'm
going to let you actually do the work
I've got a okay a screwdriver right here
alright I'll just get you to take out
that blue screw all right perfect now
I've turned off the power already while
we were at black there okay so just pull
that screw right out it comes right out
is it not after the screwdriver is yeah
okay there we go okay and now right here
there's this bevel that we don't have to
actually do any prying or anything like
that
just drag it like that oh okay right off
okay and then you'll see that there's a
drawer in that drawer yeah that drawer
lets you pull the hard drive right out
we can go ahead and do that okay okay so
here is your what is in all essence is a
laptop hard drive it looks like a 120
gig because it's 120 ok yeah 120 gig
Toshiba hard drive we're going to see
what this thing turns up and we're going
to do that with Linux oh ok ok so how do
we do this ready for it I'm ready I've
got my laptop over here just a Linux
laptop it's running ubuntu 16.04 and
what we're going to do I'm going to grab
a external chassis that has USB 3 ok you
might use es ata
you don't want USB 2 or USB 1 because
going to be brutally slow and you have
to remember that as we're about to image
every sector of the hard drive it's more
likely to fail during that time right ok
so this is just a this is a Kingston
Drive that let's see here it has a
solid-state drive in it but I can remove
that solid-state drive and then I have a
backplane for SATA headers so perfect so
this USB device basically converts SATA
into the USB 3 right guy USB 3 is fast
enough ESA ta is going to be lots of
lots of speed for you three gigs a
second let's just pull the screws off
here you know what I'll do is let's
bring this up on the camera here ok do
you want to hold that for me sure and
just right down here I see four screws
for the for the hard drive from the
PlayStation 3 I'm just going to pull
those out
don't lose those we're gonna need them
so this process is so that we can safely
or at least more safely determine if the
hard drive has failed is failing and at
the same time because we're going to be
actually copying it we're going to be
able to the sjcam turns off after a
couple of minutes time because we're on
battery power I'm just going to fire
that right back up we'll see that come
live again we can do there we go okay
just give that a second so I'm just
going to pull that hard drive out of the
chassis let's do this on camera there we
go
so it just comes right out once the
screws are as simple okay and then this
particular device that converts it I
just put that into the back plane and
now this hard drive is accessible over
USB three all right so easy it is easy
but the reason that we're doing this in
this way is because imaging or basically
doing a data recovery if you will is
going to make a copy of the drive as
it's testing it okay if partway through
it does fail then chances are pretty
good that we may have gotten some or all
of the data right at that point so and
then at least we're going to have a
backup that's going to be something that
we can fall back on so I'm just going to
plug this into my computer into the USB
3 port make sure you plug it into the
right port because your computer
probably has a lot of USB 2 ports and
then maybe one my laptop has one USB 3
port right and then for USB want to
point something important can I ask what
their differences aside ok yeah
2 is 480 megabits a second 3 is going to
be five gigabits a second I love to so
you're going to get significantly faster
performance out of that USB 3 port okay
so on my laptop here let's just bring up
the screen for you ok so there we r
going to do this through the term and
all I'm going to jump into the terminal
here system tools let's say terminal and
there's a tool that we're going to use
called DD rescue but in order to get
that there's a couple things we need to
do so sudo nano etc' slash app slash
sources dot lift and then enter your
password this is going to allow us to
modify our repository list
what we need to do is we need to make
sure that the universe repository right
here is not commented out okay because
this is this tool that we're going to
use is found in the universe repository
so with that not commented because by
default I believe that is commented then
you can hit control o to save and then
enter and then control X if you get a
permissions issue
you forgot to type sudo because remember
I'm on Ubuntu if you're on Debian you
can do this using su and be the root
user okay so now that I've got the
universe repository we're going to go
sudo apt-get update that's going to
download all of the package information
for available packages there we go
sudo apt-get install and then it's it's
actually going to be g DD rescue okay so
think about DD in terms of you know disk
destroy or whatever you want to call it
DD is a tool that you can use in linux
that will do a sector-by-sector copy of
any device okay but DD essentially
assumes that the source is not in a
problematic state okay we know that this
drive may have failed or maybe pre fail
or may have some problems or some really
bad sectors now that it's been dropped
from six feet from the mantle yes so
we're going to use instead DD rescue
which is basically a front end for DD
that does things differently in such a
way that it will work better if there
are bad sectors you'll get more good
data than you will from DB awesome okay
so that's installed using apt-get so now
it's a pretty simple command but first
of all now I've got that drive into
plugged in so if I type sudo fdisk
- L I'm going to see a list of all hard
drives that are on my system you see how
FDB took a second to pop up there that's
the one so how do I know if that's the
right one now my computer has not
mounted it so it's safe to do this I'm
just going to unplug it from my computer
now go back there and type sudo fdisk -
L for lift the available hard drives and
you see all I have is SDA so now as soon
as I plug back in the USB 3 and then run
that command again you
second to connect there it is so FDD is
our drive once I've connected it all of
a sudden I've got this flash dev slash
SBB okay so that's our source drive
that's the one so good news Jeff is that
the drive is being detected that's right
doctors rail our news absolute are it's
not saying nothing's there so now we're
going to use that dd rescue and you can
see that it is installed now so if I
type DD rescue it'll say it's waiting
for more information what are you going
to enter it says both input and output
files must be specified okay so we're
going to Super User do so that we have
full access to the hardware so sudo DB
rescue and we're going to here's what
we're going to do - F and then the
source device so dev slash f DB backing
up really really quickly before I get
into that do it D F - H okay see my /
109 gigs free okay that's something that
is going to be a problem for me in this
particular instance this is a
demonstration so yes we'll get away with
it 120 gig hard drive Oh
what if it's full oh I'm going to run
out of space on my destination drive
before I before I get to the end of the
drive okay we just wipe your laptop it's
all go someplace thanks for trying to
save okay and this is key - we're going
to write it - an image file oh we're not
going to overwrite my partitions right
we're not over writing my hard drive
never set your destination to slash dev
slash SVA my hard drive right because
then you'll lose everything on your
computer instead our destination is
going to be a file okay so I know that
in my particular system on my laptop I
do not have enough hard drive space to
do this image but for you make sure you
do okay and I can again you know I know
that because it's 120 gig drive and I
only have 109 gigs free so assuming I
had more space and this is okay for the
sake of the demonstration so sudo DD
rescue and then - F and then the source
dev slash f DB don't specify a partition
we're making an image of the entire hard
drive
then our image we're going to put that
into our home folder on the desktop and
we're going to call this ps3 dot IMG
then we have an optional parameter here
to include also a log file we're going
to export at save to a log file yep why
do we want to do that with DD rescue I'm
going to show you in a moment time you
can actually resume so if for summary
when I have to stop maybe I run out of
hard drive space right I can use an
external hard drive copy the image over
and continue on from where I left off
the log file allows us to do that so
check this out
I'm going to specify now same folder
desktop as my destination ps3 dot log
now it could I'm putting it on my
desktop you can put it anywhere you like
wherever you've got space soon as I hit
enter it's going to start the process so
far Jeff we've rescued 66 98
there's our numbers going on yeah it's
going it's moving nice and fast the
number I like though is the errors zero
errors zero so far at 400 kilobytes read
let's okay so if this works does that
mean it's not the hard drive that's the
problem
not necessarily okay but so what we're
looking at here is we're doing an image
to my hard drive and it's saving - not a
hard drive but an image file see that
ps3 IMG on my desktop down at the bottom
left there that's the file that is now
becoming an exact duplicate
sector-by-sector of your hard drive from
your ps3 right ok so as it's doing that
it's going to notice on having trouble
copying this particular right type yeah
and then it's going to give us an error
and it's going to show us so if those
errors climb up or if you start to see
errors then you know they just drive has
failed or is failing or is not at all
trustworthy so if you see errors there
then we know that the drive is not
trustworthy right now okay before we get
too far into that look at my progress
here 2.1 megabytes i'm going to hit
control c to abort it says interrupted
by user now remember what I said about
using the log file yes I'm going to
enter that exact same command now I'm
using the same ps3 IMG on my desktop and
ps3 log on my desktop and if I hit enter
watch where it starts 2.2 megabytes
oh look at that instantly picks up where
it left off so I don't have to start
over if for some reason this gets
interrupted so it's definitely a good
idea to use that log file and then we
can pull that up any time we need to
recharge okay so just to speed things
along because this is just a
demonstration and I've already been
through this process for you Jeff the
good news this process completed and
errors were zero that's awesome sort of
yeah so what is going on with my
playstation yeah Robi already said that
it doesn't look like the motherboard is
destroyed and right and so on and so
forth so I'm going to I'm going to abort
this process now you're going to have to
let that go for many probably many hours
exactly that's purely with 120 but I
mean if if you're checking your hard
drive to make sure it's safe you want it
to do a thorough so I'm not going to
rush that process no no no absolutely
not
now nice thing too is because we're
creating this image using DD rescue if
the drive fails or even if six months
from now if I have held on to that image
if the drive failed I can revert back by
right now DD rescuing the file back to a
physical hard drive okay it can also be
used to DD rescue to a Kingston
solid-state hard drive right now moving
parts are gone and you don't have to
worry about it so you've got a much more
robust solution and plus it's faster
it's better if it's gonna be more
fuel-efficient and yes all the the above
right but still won't make it kid-proof
still won't make it kid-proof but a
little more kid-proof yes okay so I'm
going to pull this drive out we're going
to pretend that we got there because we
did yes
during my earlier test hello good so I
don't ride a new hard drive we don't
have to buy a new hard drive but do we
have to buy a new ps3 so let's put this
back in here Jeff okay let's fire up
that that action cam here alright okay
so the process is exactly reversed I'm
just going to put this back together
okay so
just like that Jeff I'll let you take
the action camp please another card okay
there we go
you getting dizzy yet hmm okay here we
are so we're just going to reassemble
this an easy process and we're not
getting fortunately we're not getting
into the entire PlayStation whoa you're
like so sideways I'm so confused here
Jeff a little bit better oh wow yeah go
over top I just didn't want the shine
the shine was trying to get together you
end up relying on I don't usually the
same man that's right
yeah I forget if I came on an angle you
wouldn't get as much light shine ah okay
maybe somebody got something done some
people feel like they're falling right
yeah everybody feels like they're
falling now listen maybe we just need to
put one of those legal things about
category five may cause nausea yeah
there we go that's going straight into
here all right
whoa Jeff oh man dude okay I'm gonna do
bones you know what it is I'm looking at
the screen and not big picture like dog
okay now put it in upside down out
because I'm there everywhere we go okay
okay they're in now here's the thing I
want to give it a really good snug push
okay so that it's tight to the back
plane okay okay because here is what I
think the problem is the drop kicked the
drive off the back plane but it's
screwed it
no it's not well but this screw here oh
yeah the screw on the top but there's
there's a fair bit of play there my
friend is there okay look at the play
here so he's thinking oh okay consider
the back plane is is basically exactly
like what I showed you here okay
it's this guy here so in the back of
that PlayStation you've got one of these
and your drive plugs into it and that
kick from a drop will go and now it's no
longer making contact with maybe the
power or maybe the the SATA headers
right
so I'm going to put that back in here we
got all kinds of angles here tonight on
category five I know okay give it a good
little snug push and one thing I'll
mention as I already as I pull it out
and put it back in many times I kind of
pushed it back this way as I was
screwing it into the chassis okay so
it's not is so these screws have a
little bit of play too I made sure that
it was as far back in this chassis as I
possibly could
smart okay so now I push that in okay
nice and snug now we've got this piece
here just the nice cosmetic bezel yep
put that in and finally our screw just
like so okay nice and snug
okay there we are okay this is the
moment of truth check if this works that
I bet you a million people who have
dropped their ps3's they stopped working
and then they threw them out or watching
no likes I just throw out a ps3 probably
right yeah I thought it was gone for
good well and truthfully that's where I
went to immediately I'm like it's not
working ah there broad yeah so okay
let's fire up it wagon well let's hear
I'm going to kill the power here because
I didn't realize our TV had gone to
sleep okay let's let it shut down
alright because this is this is the
moment of truth Jeff right really
hopeful free for your kids sake for your
sake for your sanity for your pocketbook
your kids piggy banks yeah it's true
brought to you in part by RCA okay here
we go alright no signal no excited yeah
what about the unboxing of the a no that
was exciting to an equal excited okay
fair enough
wow that's like an emotional couple
weeks here should be the last three
there's no second good see I know what's
connecting because it just activated as
controller number one yeah okay so the
systems on we're just not getting the
feet not getting a signal now we're
using the AV cable that you brought yeah
in which I don't use a home I go by HDMI
oh so but the reason I the reason I
brought the AV cables because I didn't
know what you had you brought the AV
cable that at home you use HDMI yeah is
it possible that this the ps3 has like a
setting that tells it but you use HDMI I
have no clue but I know they broke the
HDMI cable you can buy a new HDMI I can
yes okay so I've got an HDMI cable we've
brought the TV forward a little bit and
I plugged in the HDMI cable let's try
that I'm going to just plug it into the
ps3 here I think it's running yes it's
running okay because we're not getting
anything off the AV k no even though we
were before and we'll switch over to
HDMI
oh look at it working look at that did
but working okay well can you guys see
that I can't really turn the screen very
well because we had to have a short
cable you got we got a short cable oh
look at the ha it works now okay so one
of the games I've downloaded is is
minecraft for my kids okay if does my is
my crowd right there so let's see oh oh
now that could be PlayStation Edition
that's the digital yep it's all there
look at that
$250 saved nice three children look at
that same now it's trying to push 1080p
to a tiny tiny little screen I don't
know what the screen can handle it but
Jeff there you go man oh man the good
news is it looks like we've been able to
successfully get your ps3 up and running
we hope there goes it's actually working
we've got an image that we've copied to
the hard drive and we've got you know
how is that able to do you oh yeah an
easier that's not even doing it right of
the Internet okay so there we go that's
awesome Robbie Savannah for you my
friends leave me hanging okay buddy
thank you yeah
alright we go we did actually all right
so did you learn anything tonight I
wanted you to learn a little bit about
data recovery so that you can create an
image of these failing hard drives Jeff
you could have had a worst case it could
have been absolutely unreadable in
absolutely in which case we would have
just pulled it out put in a nice
kingston SSD and been able to get it up
and running with a new hard drive
that would have been option number two
the other thing is we could have
encountered bad sectors and we could
have gotten to the point where all of a
sudden DD rescue started erroring out
well the good thing is is then at least
we'd have an image of your games that
are downright hard drive then we could
image it back to a solid state hard
drive install that drive and you'd be up
and running with all your data yep so so
there you know a couple of different
scenarios for you of course this applies
to your laptop computer your desktop
computers we've got a hard drive that is
failing or has some bad
actors not sure what to do you can use
DD rescue on Linux in order to recover
it and save it to new hardware save it
to an image file so that you've got a
really good backup of that particular
hard drive it's like it's like taking a
harddrive and zipping it into a file and
saying okay now I've got it because now
I can buy a new hard drive and I can now
load it onto there and route that's like
the exact duplicate including the UUID
of the entire hard drive so you can just
boot from it and it's good to go awesome
see and it's funny now you've got me
thinking going what if we should do like
a image of my ps3 hard drive every month
just in case my if there's data on there
yes the way I look at it and backups are
the same if there's anything on your
computer that you can't lose or that
would be really hurtful to lose I look
at my laptops and everything my laptop
here you know I really don't want it to
get stolen we said have that happen if
it did there is nothing absolutely zero
on my laptop that I don't have elsewhere
that I need so that my remote the only
stuff that's on there that I don't have
elsewhere is temporary files when
there's a video and stuff that are
already on the internet and already on
my servers yeah so it doesn't matter so
so that's where you want to be
Playstations no different if you've got
games on it and save games the kids are
going to be heartbroken if they lose
saved games yes work hard to get all the
worlds in Minecraft yeah oh yeah so it's
important to have a backup of yes I
would say absolutely and now you know
how to get into the drive you know how
to get it out how to do an image and
then if it ever came down to it we could
image it back to a new hard drives we'd
be good to go it's awesome if your space
on your floor where you can put it let's
do one one better ok guys here's what
happened he plug your daughter plugged
into the controller yep to the
PlayStation up on the mantel move back
because this is a very exciting moment
in Minecraft and crash it to the floor
here's what I want you to do I want you
to go out and I want you to get some
wall work so I'm sorry what some wall
works some five volt USB adapters that
you plug in to the wall that give okay
USB port and typically you would use
those to charge your phone right I want
I want your kids to have access to that
so now they can plug that in
to the Outland plug the controller into
that and if they pull on it it's just
going to come out of the wall that is a
smart idea you can get them at the
dollar store Jeff I know I bought a few
dollar store yeah I want you to do that
don't waste any time my kids will be
buying them from the dollar store that's
right that's that's their punishment but
sure that's perfect please take them to
a dollar store I want pictures of them
standing in the electronics aisle with
their wall warts okay done we're going
to see those you know you say wall warts
and I'm thinking something out of Harold
five second a little 5 volt 301 where
you charge your phone off
[Music]
