here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
malware has been found hiding inside
software in the aboon to snap store
after 33 years notepad finally displays
text files properly Facebook is
launching its own blockchain division as
part of a broader recognition
reorganization of its executive lineup
and Nintendo is bringing back its
outrageously popular $60 NES classic
edition console next month these stories
are coming right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Westen
Gemma you're building a brand-new
beautiful website
are you alright you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play
you're supposed to act
okay I'm building a really cool website
are you building a really cool website
just because Jeff is confused doesn't
mean you have to be visit cap five dot
TV slash DreamHost to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash DreamHost this is
the category five TV news room covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux bias I'm Sacha Rickman and
here the top stories were following this
week oh but wait you don't have your
glasses on this week no I switched to
contacts which the contacts yeah how's
that going for you well it's gonna be a
bit of a tricky little learning curve I
think we bring the teleprompter in maybe
you bring it in bring it in I it's not
bad I just saw some of the words I
cannot read Chris actually asked me like
can you see this line you see that line
he said yeah that's good
turns out I should have had the
teleprompter with me so I could there
you go
oh wait that's not gonna work alright
software in the balloon to snap store a
pair of seemingly normal apps hosted by
the canonical back to app hub were
discovered to contain a cryptocurrency
miner disguised as the systemd daemon
the affected apps also shipped in init
scripts to auto load the malicious code
on boot and allow it to run in the
background on affected systems canonical
says it has removed all applications
from the author pending further
investigation since learning of the
flavia a github issue on the weekend
because the snap store doesn't provide
public public-facing install numbers for
apps it holds it's unclear how many
unikz linner linux users have been
affected by this minor issue although
it's worth noting that both apps were
only updated uploaded in late April
regardless of the exact figure it's a
given that many users will now be asking
how this was allowed first place pardon
me mmm
how is it possible for malware to find
its way into the snap store and onto
users systems the code in question was
first found by github user tower der in
an app purporting to be a version of the
popular 2048 game curious as to why the
app added a system startup script they
checked they checked it out and saw that
it was for a cryptocurrency miner tool
the user then checked another app
uploaded to the snap store by the same
developer and guess what
they also found it contain the same bike
coin miner script linked to the same
email address this situation marks the
first major security issue in the snappy
packaging system but although unwelcome
this particular fail is not necessarily
as frightening as it sounds at first nor
is it necessarily a fault with the
snappy format all apps uploaded in the
snap store undergo automatic testing to
ensure that they would they work and
install correctly for users on multiple
Linux distros snap apps are not checked
the line by line for anything suspicious
or out of the ordinary
however therefore however therefore I'm
under the current framework there was
simply no way to detect or prevent this
malware from being bundled up with an
app and made available on the stop store
any theoretical pre detection would have
been hard to do given that both of the
affected apps were updated uploaded as
propriety proprietary software their
code was not available to check the
crypto currency miners in this instant
can be considered malware because they
weren't mentioned in the story
description and the
the used cysts then they used system
resources without permission or user
knowledge for a task that wasn't
authorized that said the minding scripts
themselves don't seem to do anything
malicious to the system itself for
example they don't harvest data inject
code or hijack hijack browsers it is
possible that the app author in question
wasn't being intentionally malicious
given the lack of effort to disguise the
malware and the inclusion of a hardcore
email address mentioning a Ferrari they
may have been attempting to draw
attention to a hole in the snap craft
vetting ordinary and if so it worked oh
this is gonna be fun so to be fair Holi
to be fairly you try reading the news on
national television with no eyes I am
behind you you made it through okay but
thinking of this story yes if somebody
is going to be downloading apps what
kind of things that should they be
looking for to make sure that this kind
of situation hasn't happened like how
would you know yeah I think what it
boils down to is just recognizing that
this is not an issue with the Ubuntu
system or the ecosystem it's not an
issue with downloading from you know
it's not it's not them it's not their
problem it's not anything to do with the
boom to only that it shows that we need
to be more careful as users so for
example and I'll just kind of break this
down for you so github is a very popular
place to get software because coders can
upload their open source software and
distribute it there and they can even
distribute binary close source stuff and
it's there on on github well if I
install it and it has malware in it then
I am kind of to blame because I've
trusted the source it's not that I've
trusted github it's that I've trusted
the coder who's distributing it right so
similarly in an app store
I'm trusting the developer so do I know
this developer is it an official release
is it release from the people who are
actually developing this software or is
it a third party so we have to be
careful and we look at things like GIMP
2.9 is a two point nine that has come
out yeah two point nine and so when we
go to gimp.org for example this GNU
image manipulation program a Photoshop
alternative so when we go to their
website gimp.org we know that we are
dealing with the developers right the
folks who have built this software so we
can trust that if we then if we go to a
third-party Store app store not
necessarily buying it it's free but if
we go to a third-party website and
download it from there what's to say
they haven't injected something into it
because we the user are downloading it
from an untrusted source right in Linux
it's a bit difficult so your question
you know how do we know if we're well we
just have to be careful and be mindful
that if we are downloading from
third-party sources we need to kind of
vet them a little bit right
are these trustworthy sources are they
related to the official distribution I
do a lot of software development I do
NEMS Linux for example and I have you
know I am officially a part of the
Nagios exchange
I'm endorsed by Nagios enterprises and
so there's a certain level of yeah I'm
nothing to do with Nagios but I am kind
of you know I'm official if you will as
a third-party you just have to vet that
and say hey okay got that I can trust
but maybe not the next one it's really
tough and I guess with you know it boils
down to doing what this person has done
and said oh I found out that the
software had this malicious code so I'm
gonna report it right that's what it
comes down to do you think that perhaps
that that person who had had released
this maybe actually was illustrating the
the loophole like possibly but they
could have been also just you tapping
to a free resource that would have
allowed them to mind some cryptocurrency
right I mean there is nothing and I
think what the story points to is that
there is nothing wrong with mining
cryptocurrency there's nothing wrong
with cryptocurrency mining what is a
problem here what classifies this as
malware is the fact that it went in to
systems who entirely did not opt in for
crypto mining they opted in for a game
yes right that's where it's malicious
it's not the mining process and it's not
a boon to its that there's this mining
code in something that it's not supposed
to be in right that's a big topic that
could be a show absolutely after 33
years notepad finally displays text
files properly no pad has been around
for as long as Windows originally
shipping with Windows 1.0 way back in
1985
however it's taken Microsoft 33 years to
fix one of no pads most annoying
problems it can't display all text files
correctly while that may sound
ridiculous it has been a frustration for
anyone attempting to open a text file in
Notepad that was created on a unix linux
or mac OS system the text output is
garbled and it's all because of the line
endings as Microsoft explains on its
developer blog until now not notebook
supported text documents containing open
notepad parties supported text documents
containing three types of line ending
characters they're all window they're
all windows end of line characters
carriage return and line feed if the
text document uses those the output in
notepad will be perfectly formatted text
documents created in Unix Linux or Mac
OS use different line ending characters
when you try and open them in notepad
you see a garbled mess of text since all
of the line breaks are missing the later
the latest Windows 10 insider build
contains the latest the updated version
of notepad complete with additional line
ending support
the status bar will even show you which
endings the line the file uses cool it
spent time yeah yeah like 33 years yeah
had one job I have to install Adam on
every Windows system just so I can open
files it's very annoying that there's
been this software that really is
useless for so long right and yet we
still open our files manually riad the
carriage returns oh my goodness it's
such a simple fix really when you think
I'm yeah maybe there's a lot of back-end
changes they've had to make because the
way the system networks no this is just
Microsoft being cocky and saying oh
everyone will conform to us right you
know how they they were with Internet
Explorer and it's finally realized okay
well this is not going our way so we'll
drop that now okay notepad is finally to
put a I mean to say 33 years 33 years is
a lot let's put a perspective on this
I'm 34 pretty much my entire existence
they've been ignoring this problem okay
how much has technology changed since I
was a baby yeah and they're just getting
around to this now like Microsoft oh no
oh okay so does this mean that if I'm at
if I'm at a computer and I'm opening a
Word document but I'm using like Libre
Office I can I open it and oh wait no
pad no no no pad is for like are you
familiar with dot txt files so they are
strictly txt okay and not just dot txt
like they can be dot SH files for
example would be another another one
that I try to open yeah a JavaScript
file anything yeah anything that is just
plain text
there's no formatting it's just there's
no bolds there's no underlines it's just
plain text usually scripts or readme
files to explain how things work and
stuff like that
okay but it's been useless up until now
completely evidently yeah so it's about
time
[Music]
finally Windows 10 is stepping into 1987
Facebook is launching its own blockchain
division as part of a broader
recognition of its executive lineup
reorganization of its executive I was
waiting for it I was waiting for the
eyes to click in it's okay it's good
this is how long have you been with
contacts this is day two this is date
okay so what's hasn't changed them
that's the problem okay here's here's
the problem of having so I can describe
it to you so that you understand what's
happening if I don't blink which I can't
be blinking constantly while reading the
teleprompter it's like they haze right
over and then I can't through them I
need to like blink them clear but then
then it's the words you want you go like
stand here misting just seeing just
blurriness okay so so where are we at
okay we're it so let's just they're
talking about Facebook is launching a
blockchain division and they're
reorganizing their executive line
alright so the move comes four months
after CEO Mark Zuckerberg said in a
Facebook post that he wanted the company
to go deeper and study the positive and
negative aspects of cryptocurrency
the company is saying little about its
blockchain division for now but we do
know that David Marcus who was serving
as the vice president of messaging
products and overseeing facebook
Messenger will be running the blockchain
group interestingly he is also the
former CEO of PayPal with a longtime
interest in Payment Systems he also
currently serves on the board of Bitcoin
exchange coinbase instagrams current
vice presidents of products Kevin will
will be leaving that role to join
Facebook's blockchain team the two
positions are the only ones announced so
far for the team and
I made a lot of other employee
reshuffling interesting huge so Facebook
cryptocurrency or a cryptocurrency
payment platform right that's what we
need we need to be able to buy category
five shirts by turtle coin and you know
and so on and so forth that's what's
going to take cryptocurrency to the next
level of being a viable currency is
being able to transact I agree my my
hesitation though is Facebook really
they control enough of the world and
they've just shown that they completely
screwed up not releasing our data if
they have some sort of a back-end to a
blockchain technology that is tied into
your entire profile and everything like
the linkage and the marketing that can
come out of this is now insurmountable
to say oh by the way so we've determined
that this age group who like to do these
things that pretend to text to get out
of awkward situations are most likely to
be the ones to buy into this Bitcoin or
this coin and or to do it at this rate
and they're more likely to be miners and
they're therefore we're gonna target
like really really I don't even want to
go there though Jeff like we can get
into conspiracy theories and this it's
just i am a fan of spreading the wealth
and I do art I think Facebook is getting
to the point of having dare I say it too
much social power so they need to pull a
Google and instead of having everything
under this massive company have site how
these have individual little companies
that exactly make mistakes with and go
the way of coca-cola who's got a
bazillion brands underneath it yeah at
least doing it that way it doesn't seem
as conglomerate we're gonna all you this
way it's like let your Facebook coin
with your Facebook account and by the
way yeah have you got your Facebook
paper like they have that nice I'm sure
it's coming ah
so social
I just don't want that posting on my
wall I didn't see it first how the two
would be connected really but I not the
toilet paper the fate like Facebook and
blockchain right but I guess it is with
I guess well there could be so and but
think about this if you want to be
concerned about your privacy what if
they're using the blockchain to encrypt
and protect right right just just to for
authentication and things like that I
like the idea of having someone other
than PayPal right now I'm fair enough
I'm quite fed up with PayPal they pull I
don't know if you guys know this and if
you're in America you probably don't
care maybe you do because you love us
but PayPal pulled out all of their debit
cards from Canada so really yeah so
about two months ago so if you if you're
in Canada and you carry a PayPal debit
card to give you access to your funds
that are in your PayPal account you've
just lost access to it if you live in
Canada so so I'm not happy with them
whatsoever at this point so I'd love to
see someone else rise up that could give
me a way to transact especially if they
can provide me a way to transact without
having to wait three days to withdraw
money to my Canadian bank account right
and convert currencies I have to convert
from u.s. dollars to Canadian dollars to
put it in my account and I lose a few
points on the right transaction like
it's stupid so I'd like to see something
else yeah just step one Nintendo is
bringing back its outrageously popular
$60 NES classic edition edition console
next month the console was intended as a
limited time offering it went on sale in
late 2016 and was discontinued in April
2017 between the low price and the heavy
draw of Nintendo nostalgia the NES
classic edition was a major hit as a
result it was nearly impossible to find
and now Nintendo says it's bringing back
the console Nintendo tweeted on Sunday
night hashtag NES classic edition will
return to stores on June 29th they also
said this system and the hashtag NES
classic Edition system are expected to
be available through to the end of the
year
it's great news for anyone who missed
out on the chance to buy the NES classic
edition during its brief window of
availability the only other way to buy
one at this point is to go through
third-party resellers like eBay where
prices are often triple or more of than
the original $60 cost of the console the
same 30 at classic NES games that
shipped with the first run of the NES
classic Edition will ship on the new
production run as well so we saw this
coming
this is smart for nintendo of supply and
demand complete control but they are the
masters of this i mean every time
nintendo has come out with a new console
i mean look at when the we came out
mm-hmm they're like hey we've got the
Wii and people were spending $3,000 ah
stupid console on eBay because they had
to get the week yeah right Nintendo is
amazing at this they go how many people
need this a billion
let's make five they put the other you
know billion in a warehouse somewhere
and then go alright they've waited long
enough
throw it out there and people jump out I
mean it's it's a great marketing system
right but in the meantime it's dirty
games yeah 30 retro games Raspberry Pi
can get you so much more right yeah need
I remind you I just hear haha how many
games on that does this look like an NES
classic to you it does does it I mean
come on now with HDMI output because
that's a Raspberry Pi 3 B+ and that has
like three thousand games on it right
I'm not saying this as legal I'm just
saying it's awesome so it's not
officially endorsed by by Nintendo but
it works just waiting for the lights to
turn off but if you've got all the like
if you have the freeware roms cuz some
of them you can get everywhere I I refer
to abandoned where and I and I realized
the chat room will now
RuPt and say a van and where is not
actually a thing but it's like it's
software that is so old that it's just
not sellable right right I mean you can
find some of them on like archive.org
sure yeah so I mean if you find them
there and you get them as a ROM like who
cares
yeah so that's my homebrew well NES
classic how do you like that and we
taught how to do that on category five
technology TV didn't we so we certainly
did while ago retropie there was a game
you couldn't figure out what it was Asha
realized it's smokey 55 was amazing and
if you want to see how far games have
come Jeff from that era to like because
this also has an Atari 2600 on it right
from that area all the way up to the HTC
vive unbelievable unbelievable big
thanks this week - Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slate Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman Thank You
Sasha I'm Robbie Ferguson
I'm Jeff Weston it's been so great
having you here this week I hope they
have had a lot of fun please remember we
love and we thrive off of your
communication and get on to our website
category 5 TV find all the different
ways that you can communicate with us
there are links to our YouTube channel
maybe you're already watching on YouTube
and you'll give us that thumbs up that
subscribe and even comment below we've
greatly appreciate that and we may just
quote you on the air so say nice things
always say nice things have a wonderful
week everybody
