hello and welcome to new everyday I'm
Lawrence Cruz and Jeff Weston is away
today but we have our special guest with
us
Shailene rose from a beautiful province
in Canada stay tuned you won't want to
miss an exciting story of redemption and
a call to full-time ministry this is new
every day with Jeff Weston and Lawrence
Cruz
[Music]
hey friends this is episode number 153
and you know what's exciting about that
number I know you knew this did you know
in the Bible when Jesus said hey cast
your net on the other side the his
disciples did that and when they brought
in the number of fish guess how many
fish were there there was a hundred and
fifty three there you go
so this is our hundred and fifty third
one hundred and fifty third very fishy
episode of new Africa new every day
friends we do have a special guest with
us here today ladies and gentlemen this
is Shailene rose welcome to the show
Shailene hey thanks for having me it's
so great to have Shailene here I know a
bit of her story and we invited her to
come and be on the show and she was more
than happy to do that so let's dive
right in and say Shailene what a cool
name Shea and I know how it's spelled
it's ch a why but we say Shea and I know
the story telling you tell me even how
you got your name this is kind of funny
friends but it's great well it was
supposed to be spelled sha Y - Elia knee
but my dad spelt it like my birth
certificate and he spelled at CH a y le
en which is not what my mom had in play
so not being there at the time to sign
the birth certificate cuz you know yeah
she's recovering from a fantastic yeah
so my dad misspelled my name yeah I
thought that was comical you know I was
thinking about that he is
french-canadian and I know people would
last name like Charlevoix and they spell
it CH AR you know carry on I'm like no
just a second shout-out to the the
Acadian the French who are listening
today and watching I think he got it
right that's what I think now
interestingly enough Shailene rose this
is good folks what is his name Shailene
his name is Pete Pete Rose Pete Rose
friends that's right we have a
superstar here and you may not have
known this but this is a true story my
father's name Tom Cruise that's right
so you got Tom the son of Tom Cruise and
the daughter of Pete Rose here on new
every day today I'll tell you what on
this very fishy hundred and fifty third
F this well che tell us a little bit
before we get into your story and the
call of God and what that means to you
tell us a little bit about yourself like
so I understand your dad named you and
that's a bit of a story where were you
born where did all this happen
I was born and raised in Medicine Hat
Alberta super south and super south in
the province of Alberta in Canada eh do
you know how about that so what's
Medicine Hat like anyway it's like they
call it a retirement city so okay a lot
of older generation which is great we
got a lot of great people there sixty
thousand about we're known for having
the world's tallest teepee so that's
exciting I did not know that the world's
tallest teepee how about that now why a
teepee is that something from like
history or is there a like a large
population of First Nation people there
um yeah sort of it's with like the whole
naming of Medicine Hat they say that
there is a medicine man who dropped his
hat in the river so they named it
medicine hat okay so that goes with the
aboriginal and they yeah I'm not really
sure the whole history behind the TV I
just know I know it's like it's kind of
like you're born and raised there it's
like I never really thought about it
yeah money outside asking and I totally
get that okay so you're born and raised
in this town in southern Alberta
Medicine Hat what's life like for you as
a girl like is it is it countryside is
it filled with buildings or what's
what's life like did you live on a farm
what was life like oh gosh no farm it's
like pretty city cuz there's about sixty
thousand people but if you drive ten
minutes you get a dirt road so okay and
there's a lot of farms around
city so it's okay so the few it is
Alberta few pickup trucks out there lots
okay all kinds of pickup trucks I get it
and so how about you like Whizzer lots
of kids your age in school like I know I
grew up in a big city with over two
million people so we you know we we
played a game of hide and seek and
there's like a small army like what was
it like for you where there's tons of
kids in your community when you were
there like yes yes and no there's a good
amount my graduating class was probably
like 300 so it was like a medium-size
don't see and we all grew up together
from kindergarten to grade 12 so oh oh
is that right right through K to 12
oh let's see that's different than my
experience that's cool and all the while
walking back and forth in front of the
world's largest TV that's pretty cool
okay Shea so so what you oh I know you
told me that you were a little bit in
the sport or maybe a lot into sports yep
no I wonder what you think this girl's
best sport would be Shea tell us what
were you what was your favorites were
well favorite sport was rugby rugby so
Wow played that for about four or five
years so okay that's incredible my
brother played for one year and just
about broke his you know his nose his
arm and I mean he came home bruised and
bleeding and that was only in one season
you made it for four or five years yeah
Wow how about that it was good no I
loved it did you yeah so were you pretty
good I know that's what do you think I
mean you didn't kick me off the team
okay and so you don't get a touchdown
you get a try in that yeah did you ever
are you the gal that ever went and got
the try and once your toys I think I got
one tried my entire time there row is
always in the middle of oh I see
stopping everybody else yeah okay okay I
get it
so rugby okay so this is so you're just
how about school like were you a
straight-a student was that all your
thing nope okay we should just move
right along from
and I kind of get it okay so you did
school because it was fun
and couldn't wait there to play rugby
okay how about church and God is God
part of your life at this time
oh yeah like from the time you were born
so I was raised in like a Christian
household so my dad and mom were like
Christians my dad more so than my mom
and then when I was four years old it's
kind of like oh Jesus cool I'll check it
out figure out who he is and accepted
him at a young age and then he did how
did that happen were you at home did
your dad pray with you I think it was my
mom yeah so that was like the first
stage but then when I was 12 years old
that's when I really took it serious and
like found out who God was and character
so so you went to church because your
mom and dad were Christians they are
Christians yeah went to church it's
great okay so from the age of four it's
also an eight-year period you're this
good church girl did you enjoy it oh
yeah okay we like being there I loved it
it was awesome at age 12 something
happened you said yeah tell me about
that so definitely just like figured out
who God is and what he has planned for
my life and that he didn't just make me
on mistake kind of thing so at the age
of 12 I went I was in grade seven went
on a youth retreat and actually my
children's pastor is there at the time
and she talked to me and was just kind
of helping me through it and that was my
first real like Holy Spirit experience
and just kind of oh yeah I just totally
the Lord flipping my life around to
actually taking my life serious and my
walk with Him serious there's all this
at the age of 12 yeah oh I remember that
age for me two significant years I was
in grade seven and yeah big time in my
life it was an awesome time yeah and Wow
okay so you went to a youth retreat then
hmm yeah and you had interesting this
your kids pastor who I'm assuming you
knew for all of these
yeah really the same person yeah I'm
actually really close to here today too
soon okay how cool is that
hey you you kids workers out there and
youth workers showed up to you thank you
for what you do living proof that it
makes a difference a these people are
making a difference and how thankful we
are for you so hang in there and that
God knows the work that you're doing and
I'm sure there's many other people who
know as well okay Shay so you're twelve
and you have an encounter with God that
turns your life like right-side up or
yeah so what was it like did you still
go to church then did things change for
you at all or you know what how did ya
tell me about that did you just carry on
it was really cool cuz like the
leadership at my church kind of noticed
this change in me and they started
getting me leadership opportunities
really yeah so my high school experience
is very much like spending time before
youth like praying for the youth Knights
and even at the ages like 14 and 15 and
stuff and just helping out before and
after services this is all in medicine
huh yeah yeah okay Wow
now again again I'm not I don't know
anything about it but it sounds like you
were part of a good local church yeah it
was I'm really blessed to be part of it
so you accept Christ as your Savior
right as a young girl but that at 12 you
understand you you have an encounter
with God now the leadership in your
church is putting you to work you're
doing that and my goodness life has just
taken on a different shape ya know were
you involved in singing or what did you
do planned events what kind of work did
you do in the church well I did a lot of
children's oh yea Evans ministry yeah so
I was helping out when I was ten years
old I started helping out with like the
younger kids and then as I got older
they started moving me up and I went
into elementary and then as I graduated
high school they put me in with the
youth so so you've been helping out with
the youth group too
yeah wow this is fantastic well okay I'm
very curious to know how it is that a
girl in Medicine Hat
on her local church gets to the place
where now I know you're between your
third and fourth year where I yeah I'm
between certain first year at Vanguard
Bible College in Edmonton Alberta so
I've been living there for three years
okay great shout out to Vanguard College
in Edmonton Alberta and yeah and Shea is
a student intern there and that's why
she's spending how many weeks is it
Earth is it sick for months is it yeah
four months internship as part of your
degree program which degree are you
getting children and family ministry it
sounds to me like this kids worker has
really had a profound influence on your
life yeah most definitely Shea I am so
thankful that you are here with us today
friends we've got more to talk with you
about but stay tuned we'll be back after
this short break
stick around for more from new every day
for a limited time get your hands on
limited edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high-quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5
TV slash shirts to support us and get
your official Network shirt today cat5
dot TV slash shirts well welcome back to
new every day on episode 153 we're here
with our very special guest
Shailene Rose for those of you who are
just joining us today we've had a chance
to listen to Shailene story from cradle
right up until her age now where we
found we just learned that she is a
student between her third and fourth
year at Vanguard College in Edmonton
Alberta Canada
Shailene tell us about your story what
in the world ever got you to thinking
that you wanted to go to a college and
study the Bible like that's a big step
yeah well it wasn't my first plan so oh
really yes no that's an interesting
statement tell me about that so my first
plan was to go into psychology that was
my idea was not God's plan which I found
out real quick I did a year actually at
the college in Medicine Hat and it
didn't go too well
schooling didn't go too great oh is that
right yeah so it was just that year was
a huge kind of blip in my journey and
yeah God just kind of shook me a little
bit and was like what are you doing and
the same children's pastor that had
helped me with my previous like going
through and figuring out who God was
directed me to Bible College okay so
okay I get it you're away from home
Medicine Hat
oh sorry was it Oh was it Edmonton did
you just say oh no I was I was in
Medicine Hat for the college oh okay so
you stayed there okay home okay yeah
free rap I heard that one that's right
okay so you had a blip on the radar and
once again this staggers me this kids
were
thank you what's her name so we need to
we need to give some credit where credit
is due here so Cindy DeRosa she was my
children's pastor actually she's still
the children's pastor at Hillcrest
Church Wow
nice hat so yeah I showed up to you
that's great okay so you had this so
your first year college isn't going good
and then she's in your life again mm-hmm
so what like what's she saying to you or
what are you saying to her or like
what's what's going on there well at
this time if I can give a little
background yeah I like before all this
happened I was I went on a missions trip
to India I came back and this was right
after I graduated so found out that my
dad was diagnosed with cancer which
wasn't great so that sent me on a spiral
and I just kind of went to this random
College tried to like get my life
together and that didn't work out and I
was just kind of filling the void with a
lot of things and then I started helping
out at the camp that my church is
affiliated with okay and so we were
working side-by-side and she was just
kind of like hey you have this calling
on your life basically called me out and
said why are you running and then she
was like hey remember that Bible College
that we had training us like training
our workers and stuff you should check
it out oh that led one thing to another
and I ended up moving to Edmonton so
basically she suggested so are you
saying right away you kind of said this
is a good idea or did you take some time
to think about it like how did that work
I basically just wanted a new start yeah
I wanted like a better better than where
I was kind of thing so when she
suggested that I had looked into it I
went to their preview days I liked
researched it and figured out that it
was a good fit so and so then the rest
is history as far as you enrolling at
Vanguard yeah
Shay can we talk I want kindly
respectfully about this season now
you're in the church you love the Lord
you have an encounter with God you're
serving in your local assembly first
year of college I think we can nicely
say I'm asking but it seems like I'm
hearing you say you went on a bit of a
wilderness journey where maybe yeah your
closeness with the Lord it wasn't like
it is today yeah most definitely that
was probably the hardest season because
I had a lot of bitterness in my heart
towards God which was not good because
of the whole situation with my dad's
health and that so yeah yeah oh pardon
me no tell ya what tell me about that am
i hearing you say wait a second god this
this isn't right or what was happening
tell me about your feelings it was a lot
of anger you know yeah I was mad at God
cuz like my dad was he stole is like the
rock of my family kind of thing so
coming back for a missions trip where
it's all like seeing God do amazing
things and then coming back to see your
own family being just falling apart in a
aspect it was very hard for me
I was also 17 at the time oh so
processing it was really hard and my
parents had to move to Calgary which was
three hours away from Medicine Hat so
that's when I just kind of went to the
wrong crowd started hanging out with the
wrong people and instead of them telling
me to turn towards God I was turning
towards other things of the world that I
shouldn't have so trying - what were you
- what were you looking for do you think
I was I was looking for something to
fill the void because I pushed God away
and I was I didn't want his comfort I
didn't want cuz I just thought okay God
you did this my dad was not what it was
so right okay yeah so you're angry at
God yeah blaming him mm-hmm that your
father has cancer yep you've just come
off this high if you will of a mission
trip where was that mission trip I'm it
was in India Wow
and you saw God do incredible things in
yeah yeah in you through you through
others yeah it was amazing a lot of
people who had come to God and you come
home to the news but your father has
cancer
yeah how many brothers and sisters do
you have I have none
okay I knew the answer to that question
okay so the rock of your world your dad
who you loved dearly to this day yeah is
dying in your world or you're you're
afraid that that's what's happening and
now somehow as a 17 year old you're
saying God hardened me but where in the
world are you and why are you doing this
yeah too much to me that was basic yep
that was basically it
hmm and then my dad on the other side
was he was so strong in his faith and he
was loving the Lord even more than he
ever had Wow
so it was a very like contrasting kind
of experience interesting so the man
with cancer himself is pressing in more
closely with the Lord
yeah and his daughter is confused by it
yeah yeah I wonder if there's someone
watching here today and you're maybe
you're that father you know maybe you're
the one who has the sickness or the
situation that's less than perfect and
somehow you've learned over the years
that even when trials come like the book
of James tells us they will come and to
consider them joy you're actually able
to do it I bless you thanks hang in
there keep going you're a blessing to
all of us and yet you may be watching
maybe you're 17 maybe maybe you're 57 it
doesn't matter the age maybe you're mad
at God
in fact I've met many people where
something happened when they were 17 and
now they are 57 and they're still mad at
God all these years and they don't
really just hey I don't want to hurt
anybody but they're carrying this pocket
of hurt wow they're carrying a pocket of
hurt if you're watching today I'm so
glad that you are and we'd like to say
to you if Shay is saying it's not God
being mad at anybody
it's not God bringing these bad things
on us oh he knows everything but that's
not God who is doing that and I believe
your father understood that yeah he
pressed in with the law
yeah yeah him and my mother both did so
Wow no did you say what kind of cancer
was it do you remember I know you're
younger is uh multiple myeloma okay so
it was like a blood cancer so that was
yeah it was like insane and so this is
what five years ago yeah yeah that would
obviously standing in the past that you
your family has overcome yeah cuz it's
not something you talk about I can see
regularly well we thank God I mean your
father meant your father
yeah now did he go through chemotherapy
and lose hair and all that stuff
you know like say hey easy because I
think Balthus is okay I'm just gonna put
it out there
but I met this man he's got this like
fantastic head of hair and so he's
obviously come through on the winning
side oh yeah it was amazing because
within a year the year of his actual
diagnosis date he was given a remission
yeah date as well so that was amazing
and to celebrate that we took a fishing
trip up north so fantastic and then I
went off to Bible College yeah CheY like
I shouldn't have been surprised we've
had no trouble talking today and time is
running away yeah we want to talk about
the call of God I understand you've told
me you feel that God has called you to
serve Him and you are tell me about that
and there's someone watching today who
may relate to your call can you just
explain how did you get to the point
where you're this girl who has an
encounter with God you love him and then
you walk away and then there's this girl
says go to college was that you saying
yes to the call
what was that the yes or just tell us
about that in these few moments that we
have left so the call didn't really
happen until my first year of Bible
College Wow my plan was to leave just do
a first year get my certificate and
leave but during that year the Lord took
my heart and he he did a work on it and
he showed me who I was that my identity
was in him and not of the world like I
had thought it was and the way he worked
in me and the way he showed me his love
was so
eminent and so perfect that I couldn't
help but just want to share it with
other people and as I already knew that
I was pretty good with kids yeah I kind
of just went in that walk and just to
see where his blessing was going and
where the talents and gifts he had given
me I just followed that and as I
continued working with him and working
on myself I found myself and him and my
identity in Christ and knowing that he's
for me not against me and that was
something so big for me that I realized
as I grew in this that he had called me
for a bigger purpose than just to look
in at myself and be mopey and sad but to
show others his love and who he is so
that was a big part of my call well it's
fantastic Shea thank you so much for
joining us on new every day friends the
Bible tells us in Romans chapter 8 that
God does everything for good yeah for
those who love him we bless you today
and be encouraged as you lean into God
like shays father did like you
eventually that you too will find the
arms of a loving God who will lead you
through to your victory god bless you
catch a new episode of new every day
every Friday morning at new every day TV
we're
also on Roku Cody flex YouTube Google
play music podcasts and news book or if
you're in Southern California tune in
every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb TV
channel 33 television for the high
desert
you
