welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TB or
email us at life at category 5e weeks
and now let's Kim here's your host
Robbie Fergus Tuesday Jesus that is
boiling cafe ha yeah that's why we come
on the show oh no cuz Robbie has AC hey
I gotta keep them around so they just
they show up and they're just a sweaty
mess and it's like here we are cool no
offense it's a truth fact it's all good
uh tonight we have lots of exciting
stuff going on we're going to be talking
about video editing on Ubuntu Linux or
any Linux of course for that matter
we're gonna be looking at the free open
shot video editor almost a tongue
twister to say it's going to be
fantastic you want to stick around for
that also sorry thank you should check
your mic what do they say hey you're
gots to be kidding me sorry we good
thank you yeah did you hear everything
that I say fade to black welcome to
episode number 194 okay open shot is a
video editor it's freely available for
Linux we're going to be talking about
that in just a little bit Robbie is
learning that now that we have a phantom
powered microphone he needs to turn on
phantom
our unit oh it's good point we've never
had to do that before thanks gang okay
and new features on our website category
five dot TV check it out you'll see that
that we actually have a donations
thermometer there was some discussion in
the chat room during the show last week
about a request for a donations
thermometer on our website that kind of
outlines a little bit about what what
what we're doing what we're looking to
do since we had a power surge the the
kind of the idea and the decision I
guess or the my thought is that we need
to we need to replace the hardware
anyways because it's damaged so do you
know we we can either start here and
then and it would work okay or we just
get what what we need and go with that
the what's amazing is that we found an X
W 6600 it's an HP workstation it has two
processors their xeon quad core
processors and so it's a fantastic
system and the company that's going to
sell it to us is going to sell it to us
for less than what i would pay just for
the processors so that all that
information is right there on the
website on the donations thermometer
hard drives for that server because we
have to actually put drives in it for
the operating system in the file storage
and then the the apex headsets which
require phantom power by the way cool
those are also in the mix and the XLR
adapters which are the the adapters that
allow this thin little cable to plug
into our board through an XLR cable so
that's all there and as well I've shown
how many or how the grand total of the
donations that have come in so far
towards that goal those are there on the
thermometer and we're about forty four
percent towards our ultimate goal one of
the questions that Andrew Jameson asked
me on Twitter this week was well what
happens you know here you've got enough
money for the server basically or
almost there with when you factor in the
hard drives and the tax so are you going
to just do that and then worry about the
microphones later and that's exactly
what I think we would do is you know the
server or the computer system the
workstation is the most the highest
priority and then from there microphones
come next and things like that so so I
want to be open with you about what it
is that we hope to to do there it's it's
anas it's a necessary evil kind of thing
and so that's that's where we're at
forty-four percent and I appreciate
everybody who's pitched in so far thank
you so very much so that's new on our
website get your viewer testimonials in
this week we'd love to hear from you
category 5 TV and that we'd love to be
able to feature those on the on the show
as well how's your week going oh not too
bad so far yeah yeah starting to speed
up a little bit so that's always good I
think it's like well there's there's a
couple factors I think people are out
and about and more active now all of a
sudden it's such better weather out of
hibernation yeah exactly but also tax
checks coming back people are wanting to
spend some money get there I will take
your attack checks she will take your
tax chance take them off your hands but
i think that's that's affecting business
it's really it's getting busy somebody
else is looking for a new website today
and yeah very good all right so fewer
points this week i didn't get any photos
from you so very sorely disappointed i'd
love to get your photo to give you a
hundred viewer points hello love to give
those to you all i need is a picture of
you watching your device watching
category 5 TV on your device snap a
picture send it to live at category 5 TV
and let me know your user handle on the
website as well just so there's no
confusion and getting those points to
you and that will give you 100 fewer
points if there's anybody new joining us
in the chat room we'd love to hear from
you i'm going to try to keep on top of
the chat room and of course kristas
there as well krista we figured out last
week that if someone says Krista's name
it lights up into ahead so that's cool
if somebody says my name Robbie f it
comes up in a pop-up kind of
notification
window so make sure make sure you you
say our name get our attention cool good
to see everybody watching for anyone
who's brand new here would be great to
hear from you just let us know in the
chat room just say I to Krista or a BF
say hey haha do you have any questions
for me to get the show rocking and we'll
jump right into those if we have some
and if you have some questions for me
I'm dropping people are asking about my
dvorak where my head go and I'm dropping
them all over the place I'm going to
talk about that a little bit later as
well alright so let's jump in so first
question says hi Robbie if you've got
time I wonder if you could help me out
if not please don't worry I understand
you're busy Robbie's never too busy for
questions SPL society of biblical
literature have kindly put a free
version of the Greek New Testament up on
their website they offer an xml version
and I was trying to write an XSL style
sheet that will parse through and
display the verses I get stuck with only
being able to output the first word of
each paragraph how do I cycle through
all books paragraphs and words with
suffix and XSL so that I can display
them like a normal book I keep getting
stuck in XSL when I come up with a
repeating note with her within a
repeating node many thanks Peter he's
included no Peters included the little
snapshot of the xml file here and I'm
just pasting a Peter into a document
from your email just so that we don't
reveal your email address there by
accident and what I see the first stuff
that I see so asking about it's coming
up when you when you set it up it's
coming up like word for word for word
it's a little different the way that
they've set up this XML file maybe this
is normal especially for for scripture
and stuff like that but what's what's
different to me about this is that each
word is within this w rapper so I'm not
sure if that's standard for XSL for the
first ionizing it but it's a little
different and it might be also because
it's free
I don't know but it would appear to me I
don't I don't I can't read that at all
unfortunately just because of I don't
understand Greek but but I would expect
that to me looks like it's probably one
like one word per perky so if that's the
case what you would actually need to do
is it would have to be stylized through
well I mean I would personally I would
look at that and I would say well let's
just parse it like create a PHP parsing
system that would automatically convert
that over to a readable format or even
output it to a new file format because
that to me seems like a little bit tough
to work with if it's if it's creating a
new key for every single word can you
let me know a little bit more about the
structure of that file just because I'm
not understanding it just because of the
language barrier that we have between
English and the Greek but if you could
let me know for example is the with this
being Greek I would want to know if this
word here in fact comes visually before
this word or because it's right to left
is it backwards as far as that goes as
well so that this is actually the first
word of the sentence for example i'm not
i'm not sure because i don't know the
language but can you let me know just
because if i could instead if i could
create a quick parser for you on the air
and show you how to create a parser to
convert that to a readable format or if
you want to send me create create an
English version of just exactly the
snippet that you've given me there just
so that i can understand what it is that
what we need to do so sorry i can't be a
too much more help there but i hope that
that will be able to over the course of
maybe next show if you pop me another
email i'll i'll be happy to take a look
for you
alright so let's head into the next
question it says hey Robby and the team
for all those budding musicians out
there in category 5 land check this site
out you create a song by just singing
and if you can't sing you can even just
hover whistle a tune you may have in
your head and unjam will do the rest
when you're happy then unjam will create
an mp3 of your creation I can feel the
competition coming on 100 points for the
best viewer song cool just looking at
the email there's you jam.com like the
letter u JM cool stuff the idea behind
that from what I gather it really
reminds me of an app that I've got on
the ipod touch that that my kids just
absolutely adore what's it called here
it's called la dee da now you say that
you can't you can't sing it all right
definitely file I cannot think what's
the deal with that was oh I was born
without the ability to sing well right
yes i'm not doing it on air with this
with this la dee da app it looks just
like that and that's what's up on my
screen here and you see Krista when I
push this record button it starts
clicking and I'll hold it up close to my
microphone I don't know what could we do
we could name a song this what's neat
about
right okay that's really lame but at
least we don't have to pay any royalty
check somebody's gonna email me say no
no that was that was actually copyright
that i wrote that yeah okay so now if i
push play what's neat is that this is
now added it's called unplugged as the
style so if i push play see it's added
guitar it's added drums it's it's put in
a crowd cheering in the background and
what's amazing about it is it uses voice
recognition technology or pitch
recognition technology i should say to
figure out what key you're singing in
and what what it is that you're that
you're like what cord it should be
playing and then it creates an
accompaniment track based on what you've
son and to top it all off it has pitch
correction technology built in so that
it will actually fix your pitch if you
can't so it's like a lot of work it
seems like a lot for a late for
something like like an ipod touch which
to me it's it's amazing what technology
they can fit in my in my shirt pocket
it's amazing so that's all that is
that's called la dee da la di da and
that that's probably pretty similar to
to what you're talking about with you
jam.com which has some videos on their
site outlining i think this is a little
more spectacular in that you can
actually do some audio editing there's a
little bit of a piano roll feature that
will allow you to change the the
keyboard melody and things like that but
it's neat to see some of that technology
coming up well give it a looksie
all right chatroom I'm looking at you
nice to see you nice to have you here
tonight plain or peanut eminem's gadwal
wants to know opinions peanut all the
way really yeah really I'd say peanut
M&amp;MS are like the the thing that I never
think to buy but every time I have them
I'm they're delicious we good why would
you just go plane when you have the best
of both worlds together there you go
chocolate and peanuts now I have a
nephew who's allergic to nuts though so
I have to careful with this kind of
stuff now so it's like what do you what
do you do so we'll just eat them in the
backyard d man 810 got there pogoplug
how are you loving that love to hear
your story let me know i am boris
karloff prefers Smarties
we're watching the chat room here get in
the cat room category 5 attention to a
candy yeah candy show that's fine we'll
talk for what do we have 45 minutes 45
minutes having a mr. Smarties yes we do
have Hillary who's joining us tonight
she's gonna be joining us from the
newsroom in just a few minutes just let
you know what's coming up as that loads
up on my screen here you may or may not
have heard but cisco has actually
calculated the amount of internet
traffic that we should expect to see in
2015 and the numbers are quite
staggering kind of scary when you think
about the ipv4 issues and things like
that they really need to step something
up based on those numbers also if you've
been holding on to your classic web
browser Google is once again putting
down there put the almighty google foot
and they are going to be canceling
support for internet explorer 7 safari 3
and firefox 3.5 a sous is giving linux a
warm welcome back as they are launching
a new product line of epcs and they are
going to come pre-installed with ubuntu
but Hillary's actually got some
interesting news about that deal that
they that they've made with that with a
sous and that's coming up in about 15
minutes also you remember last week that
we mentioned the Steve Jobs was going to
be doing a presentation about iOS 5 this
week he was there yesterday at their
their their big event for all the big
announcements with the I devices and I
software and he did reveal a lot about
iOS 5 including a bunch of new features
Hillary's going to be telling about that
so all the fan boys and girls are going
to be very pleased and your Apple is
almost out of the shot tonight oh I can
fix that I'm sorry guys there you go
that wasn't exactly what I was something
I can't read my screen by that's what
world ipv6 day is tomorrow and that
could mean disaster but it's
to be even less of a disaster than if
they don't do it so stick around
Hillary's got all the the information
for you coming up in the newsroom and
that's coming at just about 13 minutes
from now this is category 5 technology
TV that's nice to have you here chat
room do you have any questions for us
this is kind of our open forum time but
we can take some questions from the chat
room love to get your questions here
chat room is a busy spot we're watching
for your questions here just pointing
out jaws bomber lives next to a Hershey
Chocolate Factory lost farmer can we
make a category 5 field trip maybe like
das bomber needs our mailing address
that's pretty cool no questions it looks
like in the chat room so we we can get
right into our feature if there aren't
going to be any questions tonight we do
want to want to give you the chance to
to get your questions in the last chance
last chance to get your questions in
here on the show
okay we've got MMD Murphy who has
Lubuntu with unity it's a dual display
and can move the mouse to the second
display but can't drag items to it is
that second display is it virtualize or
is it just Linux have you got like
VirtualBox running like a windows
machine on that second display or is it
and what are the items that you're
trying to drag are these like are you
trying to just simply move a window onto
the next screen or you what is it my
first guess ok it's just Linux so my
first guess then MMD Murphy would be
that you haven't set that up with twin
view mode that you are actually running
two separate ex sessions are you using a
TI or are you using nvidia chipset cards
i'm hoping you'll say nvidia because if
you do that's what i'm running i can
show you what happens is if you have a
separate ex session set up versus twin
view oh good nvidia then a separate ex
session means that each of each monitor
is interpreted as if it's it's own linux
installation you're doing two different
things between the two accessions so
what's different if you go into
applications economy system
administration nvidia x server settings
if you go in there and we're going to go
into x server display configuration and
configure and you'll see here you've got
disabled requires ex restart separate X
screen or twin view I only have one
monitor here so of course that's all
you're going to see however what I I
have the sinking suspicion that you have
separate X screen is what you've got
checked off what you instead want to do
is twin view which is going to in fact
work as though more like what you would
expect from a dual monitor system you
can drag things from one monitor to the
next being that you're on the nvidia
platform if that's your problem you're
going to see both monitors here and
you're going to be able to drag one
monitor to the left and one monitor to
the right to actually position those
monitors the way that that they should
be positioned like the way that they're
positioned physically mmv murphy are you
on that computer and you have access to
see if that's if that's true of your
scenario nvidia says that the driver is
active but not running or something like
that oh that could be that could be a
bit of an issue to make sure that you've
got the the proprietary driver running
system administration hardware drivers
it's just taking a second to come up but
it is coming searching for available
drivers
another quick note while we're waiting
for that to load their MMD Murphy is
that it once you've got this thing set
up properly what you need to do when you
when you've set it up in nvidia settings
okay so you've gone through this whole
process of getting it working and you're
happy with it okay there's our my
hardware drivers but once you've got
this all set up and it's and you're
happy with it close it because it's
gonna it's applied to your current
system ok but then hit alt f2 and here's
what you want to do gk sudo so that your
super user nvidia dash settings the
reason you want to do that is now it's
going to run and video settings as the
superuser so now you've got the ability
to save those settings so next time you
reboot ok so you've got you bring it
back up it's still going to look exactly
the same but now this option down here
is going to work save 2x configuration
file and when you click on that save 2x
configuration file its going to just
follow the prompts hit ok and ignore
whatever else and that's going to
actually save that so that when you
reboot the computer it's going to be
back to the way that you set it up
alright so looking at my proprietary
drivers this is part of a boon to
private area drivers are being used on
my system because I've activated it you
need to highlight usually I just
highlight the recommended one sometimes
you may want to select a certain one if
it works better on in your scenario for
me I've highlighted the version current
which is a meta package for whatever is
the current version it will
automatically update and once you've
highlighted it you'll see that there's
an activate button down at the bottom
you want to click that what that's going
to do is it's going to download the
drivers from the internet from Nvidia
it's going to install them on your boon
to system and make it go so hopefully
those are some good starting points for
you mmv murphy and let me know let us
know how it goes cool
code ours here is asking which is which
you think is the best way to understand
a new web coding language well how do
you mean the best way to understand it a
lot of times it's um it's like learning
anything that's you just kind of have to
study it and figure out what things do
by trial and error sometimes you need to
break things and figure it out
techniques mm-hmm it's it's hard to say
code r360 just based on on that because
like for me when I'm learning something
like if I wanted to learn PHP from
scratch and this actually happened to me
because I used to be an HTML developer
and then I needed PHP I needed to be
able to do server side stuff I need to
be able to create more than HTML could
provide I needed to be able to i was
working on a photo gallery for my band
at the time which ironically i think
that original gallery is still is still
online at soul cleanse com so this is
the old website that i created way back
then so one of my first kind of dynamic
websites which doesn't conform to
anything these days but there was a
photo gallery feature and i'm not sure
if that's still there but i'll click on
it that's that's back when I had hair a
no I had hair beckons that a hat or that
all I have that's just my awesome hair I
did have a hat as a matter of fact
really didn't like it doesn't look like
it's coming up but in this in this
particular instance I did need yeah
looks like the photos are gone
unfortunately but I needed to learn how
to do more than just HTML so I wanted to
create a nice photo gallery so that's
what I did and that led to learning how
to work with arrays learning how to work
with
the dynamic pneus of PHP so the just I
would say find a project that you're
passionate about something that you that
you enjoy get an idea for me it was the
photo gallery it was wanting to have a
thumbnail that when you clicked on and
it blows up into a full-size picture and
then it creates a back button and then
takes it back to the thumbnail gallery
so if it's something like that and then
try to create it use arrays use you know
that's a good starting point use for
each loops get familiar with what that
means and those are very very basic
things that are going to help you to be
able to do some some PHP so and that's
that's looking at PHP alone so cool
we've got time for probably one quick
question in the chat room before we
switch over to the newsroom if anyone
has another another question for me
here's one here from final bloggers he
says he's tried PHP it's not that
difficult but he would like to know
which editor he should use a platformer
young me on Windows Linux Mac
watching for a reply here in the chat
room our chat room is found on our
website category 5 TV we have an
embedded chat room that you can bring up
or of course you can you can also
connect to freenode I connect through
through pidgin you connect the freenode
IRC network and just go into the
category 5 chat room final blogger is
using a boom tube so they want to be
able to edit PHP files within a boon to
and I would encourage your final blog or
two to study through our web development
series that we've done recently as a
12-part course that really helps you to
understand some of the ideas and
concepts behind web development a gamoto
is suggesting Emacs which is going to be
terminal based my preferences used is
still sticking with the GUI and going
with just simply a simply G edit and
you'll see in one of the early episodes
of the web development series which is
available at cat five dot TV / web dev
if you if you bring that up one of the
early episodes actually goes through how
to configure your g edit for basically
for PHP editing so you'd you'd want to
check that out cat five dot TV / web dev
and we're going to head over to the
newsroom in just a moment so I'll let
the ladies do the old switcheroo any
other comments about that in the chat
room I use G edit and i use it
professionally for working with PHP as
well as CSS and everything else that i
do javascript and all that stuff g edit
does the colorization 'he's which i love
it does automatic bracket matching so if
you open a bracket you can see where the
bracket ends if you open a loop you can
see where the loop ends so it's it
really works quite well for that Greg
and Texas reiterating GE edit is perfect
it really is I've tried other stuff I
tried bluefish and I tried some of the
other editors and honestly nothing
compares to G edit it's just fantastic
so Hillary's joining us in the the
newsroom tonight nice to have you here
are you ready hey what's up this bad boy
I found in a local dollar store dollar
store Star Trek awesome well that's cool
does the actor who plays Sulu feel like
a little upset that his doll is now
found in the dollar store that's
fantastic thank you it comes a little
itty-bitty tricorder 9 turned on I hope
did you guys hear that haha presented me
with a Sulu dolla she found at the dash
store sorry world my microphone we're
gonna get this whole Mike things sorted
aren't we we're gonna have three
microphones and we're gonna have the
phantom power on at all times that's so
cool but but no Captain Kirk no you know
lock no spark just this guy I'm not
thinking is not important however I was
just like oh yeah I get like you know
what they do is they over print yeah
okay so on the back it shows you you've
got they've got the original Spock
they've got spa get at mccoy and then it
goes down the list and soon lose half
way down the list I think what happens
though is that they print so many like
Captain Kirk Captain Cook you know they
only print so many of him so that he
becomes a collectors of yeah okay so
something like this I don't know if it
it would become a collector's item but
it will definitely grace the the cab now
I'm gonna be on the hi I'm gonna see who
else i can find at other dogs don't know
what else i believe i got that a dollar
store i've seen these in the toy shop
for like 17 bucks and I'm like oh I
wanted and and I didn't get it because I
second best dollar store I will just
have to wait like
exactly um so chat rooms should I open
that or do I like let that sit in the
box i I'm not I when I bought I used to
have the TNG figuring some stuff I was a
kid I was I was a geek but I took them
all out of the box there was nothing it
was a night and I set them up and stuff
yeah employ you know what if you want to
play with one and keep 1 i'm sure i can
go back to the dollar store okay they
know they have an entire row in the
dollar store absolu this is no Sulu
aisle so do i open that or do I leave it
you let me know in the chat room I'll
come back to you just after the news
hillary i'll let you take it away thank
you certainly so from the category 5 TV
news room here are some incredible
predictions from technology giant disco
with the proliferation of tablets and
mobile phones connected appliances and
other smart machines cisco has
calculated that the number of
internet-connected devices will exceed
15 billion by the year 2015 twice the
world's population the company said
consumer video will continue to dominate
internet traffic and it predicts that by
2015 1 million minutes of video will be
watched online every second discos
visual networking index estimated at the
same time more than forty percent of the
world's projected population will be
online a total of nearly three billion
people so how much data do figure that
really is well an exabyte is equal to
one quintillion bytes and in 2004 global
monthly internet traffic exceeded 1
exabyte for the very first time Siskel
forecast that by 2015 internet traffic
will reach 966 exabytes per year whoo as
Robbie mentioned earlier Google is
officially phasing out support for older
browsers starting august first those
using ie7 safari 3 firefox 3.5
their predecessors to view gmail google
calendar talk Docs and sites will begin
having some real trouble unless they
upgrade to a modern browser Google warns
that these web services will stop
working altogether for those sticking
with the older browsers sometime in the
not so distant future the move is part
of a trend to stop the use of aging
browsers which can be insecure and not
really sophisticated enough to handle
the latest web technologies it is
important for users to upgrade their
browsers to the latest versions because
as technology changes on the web some
content will simply not work in the
older browsers if you're using an old
browser make sure you upgrade now to get
the latest version of Firefox which
works on Windows max linux and linux hop
over to the website get firefox com
asustek has announced that it will ship
three models of its eee pc with the boo
to 10 point 10 pre-installed canonical
announced a C's decision to load the eee
pc 1001 PXD 1011 PX and the 10 15 PX
with a boon to 10 point 10 from june
first as one that will make it one of
the most user-friendly pcs on the market
it's user-friendly although not reader
friendly clearly i can't read previously
the majority of asus eee eee pc netbook
came preloaded with microsoft windows
operating system although it wasn't
always that way when asus introduced the
eee pc i'm killin it here the e you see
ya mom I know I don't flows just funny
yeah anyways when they introduced the e
pc back in 2007 it shipped with the
Xandra linux distribution i remember
however once microsoft realized that
neck books were becoming a big seller it
came up with a cut down version of at
windows operating system innovation see
and then the majority of netbooks that
have been sold how could preloaded with
Microsoft's operating system however it
seems that linux on netbooks is having
something of a renaissance Chris Kanyon
VP of OEM services at canonical said the
deal with asus asus is an important one
for canonical which will put ubuntu in
the hands of a larger audience people
who would not necessarily download
ubuntu one would be happy to buy a
computer knowing that it will work
perfectly on that hardware he did not
reveal why asus went with october is 10
point 10 release rather than the more
recent ubuntu 11.04 which was released
just in april could it be due to unity I
don't know either way this is a push for
Linux and a chance for non savvy users
to experience the ease of use of the
Linux operating system they'll just be
freaked out if they accidentally upgrade
to 11 point 0 4 and are greeted with
unity just like the rest of us and the
wraps were taken off the next iOS update
yesterday as Apple unveiled iOS 5 packed
with 200 features an all-new
Notification Center the new I message
application and a pc free design that
finally cuts the I cable with the new pc
free feature iOS 5 users can activate
and set up their iOS device right out of
the box and get software updates over
the air with no computer required Steve
Jobs Apple CEO said yesterday perhaps
iOS 5 s paramount feature is that it's
built to seamlessly work with iCloud in
the post-pc revolution that Apple is
leading also being added to iOS 5 is the
system-wide Twitter integration users
will be able to quickly post to the
social networking site with ease as
accounts will be integrated in
applications like camera and photos iOS
5 is available now for developers and
will be available to users as a free
software update for the iphone four and
3gs both ipad models and both third and
fourth generation ipod touches to ipod
touches
this fall cool very very cool and
tomorrow technologists and network
operators around the world will be
watching internet traffic especially
closely on what is being called the
worldwide ipv6 day for 24 hour period on
Wednesday several large companies
including Google Facebook and Yahoo will
enable support for ipv6 the Internet's
next generation addressing scheme mmm
it's the first large-scale test flight
of the new system and another step in
the internet slow transition away from
the decades-old ipv4 standard which is
expected to all but crash sometime this
August in February the internet assigned
numbers Authority handed out two of the
very last IP address blocks and with the
continuing growth of the internet and
increase in internet-connected devices
this is a really big problem world ipv6
day is an attempt to promote awareness
of ipv6 but also to iron out some of the
potential bugs on Wednesday the network
operators and content providers like
Google and Facebook will have a chance
to measure the real world impact of this
transition let's hope keep your fingers
crossed beyond hope that this impact is
not lack of access to the key websites
out there yeah keep your fingers crossed
move you can get these full awesome
wonderful stories online at category 5
TV / newsroom the category 5 TV news
room is researched by Rory w Nash with
contributions from our fabulous
community of viewers you've a new story
you think's worthy of honor mention send
us an email do it do right now at
newsroom at category 5e me from the
category 5 TV news room I'm Hillary
thank you you're welcome you know we're
not sponsored by Star Trek but I don't
mind endorsing them I wore this shirt
for you today oh yeah I did notice that
when I came in actually I like it
very good cuz Robbie for those who may
recall last year was a judge at about
the band's event and I attended and I
won their song I think or something like
yeah we're at wall it's number six this
year yeah so it was found yours that I
didn't this year I have to miss because
my daughter birthday is that is totally
understandable the there are very few
things that were making a mess but I'm
there in my heart and I appreciate the
support cheers so it's good i hope that
it's a fantastic event thanks for being
here with us tonight we'll see you next
week sounds good thanks for hi world
this is category 5 technology TV and we
are brought to you tonight by pogoplug
you can get them find out more about the
device and the software at cat five dot
TV / pogoplug as well planet calypso
it's a free massive multiplayer online
game and you can download the free game
from cat five dot TV / calypso and join
the category five viewers society and
we'll be able to meet up right there in
the chat room and hangout or hangout in
the game pardon me not a chat room I
brought up the chat room that distracted
me we'll meet in the planet calypso
that'd be fun I have been working on my
organ aam Ock's little report for you
now this is the keyboard that I had
purchased that is like massive the box
as far as that goes it feels over
packaged but it actually is so curved
that they really need a big box like
that it I what I bought is the natural
ergonomic keyboard 4000 from Microsoft I
know it's got the Microsoft name but
it's a really good keyboard but one of
the other things that I wanted to do and
i'll tell you what i did there I didn't
order it online I think a keyboard is
one of those things that you really got
to go in you got to feel you gotta you
gotta understand you know ok this is the
keyboard for me because it really makes
a difference based on your posture based
on your your build it matters which
keyboard you choose so what looks like a
good keyboard may not be the keyboard
for you so I wanted to try Dvorak and i
got these stickers which I can't
possibly show you at home but Krista can
obviously is that they're actually
they're translucent sticker
that I'm going to be able to stick on
the keys of my new keyboard because it
was only available on qwerty which is
the the standard keyboard layout for
computers I want to switch it to Dvorak
so I got these stickers was like three
bucks on eBay so fantastic what I'm
going to do is I'm gonna put together a
blog entry I'll be working on that and i
will post links where you can buy those
stickers things like that everything
will be included in that blog entry
including videos of the experience
itself of me learning to type Dvorak
which I'm very frightened about it's
like learning a whole new language and
like immersing yourself in it so well
beer just David it's gonna be scary it's
gonna be really scary okay let's take a
look at open shot this is a now we've
been watching for a linux application
that we can use to edit our videos for
the longest time and one of the things
that's really i think held back i guess
a little bit linux from some desktops is
the lack of good video editing software
I mean people will say I need to be able
to edit videos so I can't switch to
linux because there's just nothing there
that we can use and I've been in that
same boat I've had to you know we run
cyberlink powerdirector for most of our
video editing and it's done very very
well for us but it's commercial tool and
here's the kicker it requires windows so
Jonathan Thomas has said you know what
he was programming on Windows and he
said I want to step in this is somebody
who has done what what a lot of us
should do which is to say rather than
standing in the forums and saying oh
would somebody please do this would
somebody please do this John jonathan
thomas it has said okay I'll do it
there's a there's a need there so it
doesn't pay well and it's a lot of work
but I'm going to step in and I'm going
to do this and I think that's a great
mindset to have and if you go over to
open shot video com you'll see that
you've got access to this fantastic tool
don't install it through your boon to
repositories you'll notice that I'm
using Ubuntu Linux right now what I want
you to do instead
open shot video com I'm going to bring
it up what I want you to do instead is
use their PPA which is a personal
package archive or some crazy thing like
that the way to get this is to click on
download check out his blog as well
while you're at it he tells a lot about
about what he's doing and so what I've
done is I clicked on download scroll
down a little ways you can see PPA
instructions click it it says Ubuntu
nine-point and above cool copy all three
lines to your clipboard okay go into
your terminal and go edit paste it'll
probably ask you for your password go
through that Chris Reich is saying why
not get the software from the
repositories normally we'd say get it
from the repositories because it's great
it's going to get the updates and it's
going to be backed by good canonical and
missing that the PPA is backed by the
developer himself but here's the kicker
Canonical's repositories are version 1.1
point 3 current version is version 1.3
point 1 you'd think they'd just reverse
the numbers but in fact with the PPA
version you get 3d titling you get a
whole slew of new effects and features
and improved interface improved
reliability of the interface so you
definitely want to stick with the with
the version that's provided through the
PPA by the author of the software as
opposed to what's available in the
Ubuntu repository which is so obsolete
that it's not worth getting and because
it's PPA it's a personal package archive
we should understand that through a PPA
you're still going to get the updates
when your apt goes through its regular
updates and you get your system updates
they're going to just come from a
different source they're not going to be
coming from canonical okay so I've done
that I'm ready to go and now now that
that's in well first things first I'm
going to go sudo apt-get up
eight that's something that we type in
our terminal every time we add something
new to our repository list so that we
get the new package list doesn't take
long it's going through that step right
now there it's done so now i can bring
up synaptic package manager so we're
stepping away from and you can use you
can use apt if you want you can use app
get you can use the terminal but we'll
go we'll jump back to the GUI cuz
there's no problem with that just type
in open shot and you'll see just for the
sake of timing on the on the show i've
already installed that but you want to
click it for installation and you'll see
that now it's version 1.3 point 1 if you
didn't add the PPA it's going to be the
wrong version was going to be version
1.1 point 3 which a game does not have
any of the 3d features so stay away from
that okay as we're getting this set up
anyways one of the other things we need
to do is we need to install inkscape
which you're gonna love because it's
vector graphics those free oh baby all
right so inkscape do it while you're
here all right the one that's in the
repository is indeed fine so let's
install that okay regular steps apply
once that's done next step we want to
know what I should explain what inkscape
now gives us is the ability to edit our
SVG titles because open shot uses its
what's so neat about open source and the
way that things work with with
dependencies and the way things work on
linux is he doesn't have to reinvent the
wheel there's already a vector graphic
editor so tap into it so install
inkscape and that gives you vector
graphic abilities with an open shot
install blender and all of a sudden
you've got the ability to create 3d
effects using open shots interface so
we're going to head over to blend org
this again we're not going to get from
the repositories because it's so
obsolete in the repositories that it's
not compatible I believe open shot
requires version
two point five point six if you click on
download you'll see blender current
versions two point five point seven B
which the V don't get phased that you
think that that's better it is indeed
stable okay scroll down and there are
two versions for Linux there is the x86
32 that's for your 32 bit linux
installation and there's the x86 64
that's if you're running a 64-bit
platform i'm using 32 so i'm going to
download that file it's 30 Meg's I've
already downloaded it just for the sake
of the demonstration and then here's
what's neat you don't have to compile
that you don't have to do anything
beyond extracting it from the zip file
so I've created a folder in my home
folder called programs and I've
extracted it there so now blender and
its entirety is right here I don't need
to compile it I don't need to do
anything else all I need to do is right
click on blender that's the executive
all blender right click on it look and
go copy okay now we've got open shot
installed from our PPA let's go sound
and video and you'll see open shot is
now on your menu that's going to bring
that up so now we go file first thing we
do pardon me edit preferences not file
edit and down at the bottom you'll see
blender executable remember we just
copied the blender executable we're
going to paste it there and that is
actually pasting a link to the file
itself okay so now we close that and now
we've got the capability to create those
3d title sequences okay so that's one
that i just created for just to save
rendering time i already created it and
what we're going to do tonight within
this extremely fast-paced and exciting
tutorial about how to use open shot
we're just gonna take last week's news
feature with hillary and we're just
going to cut it down and were going to
turn this into its own little feature
using this free open-source software
from open shot video com so what i'm
going to do first is I'm going to add my
media
which are placed on my desktop i've
already organized it in a folder called
project files and remember most digital
are most video cameras these days are
digital so when i take video with my
video camera they're stored in the hard
drive of the video camera when i copy
them over it's not like copying from
tape used to be it's not a dub you're
not having to create dubs of the videos
it's actually the video file is from
your camera that's quite often what you
get so in our case we're just using
clips from the show so that's fine i've
got two files i've got the one file is
the entire episode and it's HD quality
and i've got another one is the file
from backstage pass you'll notice
they're both very different formats one
is a WMV one is an flv and i'm going to
add those and now i'm also going to add
the images that we use for the the news
so you'll see that these are you know
the files that we use when we actually
do the news broadcast these are the ones
that we had there last week so what I
want to do I've got that video sequence
that i created the news the way that we
do that now that we've got blender setup
as we go check this out it's so simple
title new animated title okay if you
don't have the correct version of
blender installed it'll warn you don't
worry and that's what I clicked on I
clicked on Claire because it looked
fancy you enter are you left and you're
entering you just fill in the blanks my
show title ok this is the file name and
now we'll say my show and that's the
text that's actually going to to show up
note to Jonathan typo the titre is that
a word the tiara it's all good it's all
good so when you click render that's
actually going to tap into the power of
blender which we set up in our edit
preferences and it's going to create
this wonderful sequence and there's so
many to choose from feel free to click
around
ok so now I'm going to grab the episode
193 and just drop it and look at how
smooth this is look at how I can just
drag it around and there's no there's no
lag there's no waiting for word it's
there it's good to go and I can scroll
around right beautiful they've really I
mean Jonathan has done a fantastic job I
don't know who else he works with but
it's just been fantastic and it's come
along so much over the past little while
since it since its inception one of the
first things i want to do is I want to
save this project I don't need to title
it but you can set it to the profile
style I've set mine to DV ntsc
widescreen because i'm working with
widescreen videos and that is just
because what if I mean the program could
crash what if the power goes out you
lose your work you just keep it saved I
always save save save every time I do
something substantial couple of a quick
rundown of the tools that are available
in open shot there are okay add add a
track we're going to come back to that
arrow tool is the tool that you use in
order to move things around on the
tracks okay this one here scissors is
the rate it's actually called the razor
tool they've changed the icon in this
version so what this is fantastic and
it's so quick this razor tool say I'm
here okay and I want to cut the video
right there so I click there and it
instantly creates a second clip there's
no waiting now I can right click on the
first cliff and go remove and it's gone
click on my arrow my little icon tool
there the arrow tool and move that in so
now the video starts where I cut it all
right next to Liz the resize tool if I
click on that now I can grab the edge of
any item and resize it I can grab that I
could take my images here's a cool thing
if you want to make image slideshows and
I can resize which is basically changing
the length the duration of that image
see how it's
you know 10 seconds 11 seconds 12
seconds okay so I'm actually moving that
with that tool and I recognize that the
tools are not quite visible when I when
I'm broadcasting here but you can get
the gist of that on your own system cool
stuff so I'm going to remove that clip
I'm going to move this over and let's
just use this tool over here to zoom out
a bit I'm going to go like that and
that's zooming out of my video because
it is a one hour video okay and now
let's click around there we are there's
Hilary so we know that the news starts
about there and see what I'm doing is
I'm just dragging the slider on the top
little ruler area up here
and I'm just bringing it just nudging it
in there to where she starts now I'm
going to grab that razor tool gonna get
right in there I'm going to cut it right
on the line there we go
the zoom feature that I'm using is a
part of Ubuntu Linux that's holding your
window key or your super key and using
the scroll wheel on your mouse and now
I'm going to zoom back in on the video
using open shot and now I can align
these videos now watch this
okay so I'm going to overlap that what
happens here track 1 is under track 2 so
track 2 is going to over right what's on
the screen so if I move my cursor here
there's the news and then as soon as
track two starts boom it's over to
Hillary so what we want to do is we want
to have a transition there so I'm going
to go up here click on transitions and
scroll through and play around there are
a ton shoes from remember this is free
I'm going to drag that am I going to
drop it right in the middle so that that
video is going to transition into that
video I can resize the transition itself
okay so it's going to be a nice seamless
white and if the arrow is pointing the
other way it means we're going the wrong
way in which case you're right click you
go switch direction it's as easy as that
and see the arrow is now pointing the
other way in our case we want to fade
from this into this from track for me
track one in the trach tube so now if I
let it play nice beautiful fade there it
is okay so you see and I can just I can
go back see how it fades right into that
clip using a nice white that we chose so
then when we're done let's just pretend
that we are finished editing our video
and that's as simple as it is ok so
we've edited it down you can have
multiple clips as many clips as you want
of course and remember that the the
layers that are on top are the ones that
are going to be displayed above the
other layers so we can now create
another layer if you need to or another
track pardon me tracks this is a
multitrack editor so you can add as many
tracks as you want limited only by your
computer's hardware and now we can add
like a picture to go along with what
Hillary is saying for example now i'm
not actually editing a video here i'm
just showing you the ideas and the
concepts behind how we're going to use
this software so there's a picture of
linus and i've pasted it on top of that
so now if we go back here you'll see it
fades from that into there's hilary and
then all of a sudden here comes a
picture of linus because let's pretend
that that's who she's talking about that
and then it goes back to her because
that layer with 3.jpg is above the one
with 193 wmb now let's add credits to
our video because that's what we're
going to end our show with we're going
to go into title new title and we're not
going to use the 3d ones this time
instead we're going to create one we're
going to use inkscape i'm going to
scroll down this list play around with
these days of just different ones that
you can choose from you can click on one
and then use your arrow key down key to
move through the the list what I'm going
to do is I'm going to just choose
standard one or whatever it can be it
can be that create new title this is my
credits and I'm just going to go blah
blah apply and then we're going to go
use advanced editor because we've
installed the advanced editor which is
inkscape when we've got that in here we
go
double-click triple click and go my show
brought to you by Robbie Ferguson Krista
Wells Hillary Rumble now notice my text
is now outside of the frame of that so
I'm going to go file document properties
and down here i'm going to go fit page
to selection done so now my document
it's outside of the word Hillary Rumble
I'm going to hit save close that and now
that is what my and captions look like
so that's actually created an SF SVG
file here in my media manager which I'm
now going to drag into my timeline right
over top of that and now i'm going to
right click on that because right now it
just kind of pops in there watch what
happens after Linus boom there's the
credits over top right so instead i'm
going to start it right after Hillary
and I'm going to go right click animate
bottom to top and now there's my end
credits for my movie final step because
we're at a time but this is what we need
to do hit the big record button up at
the top go to profile there are some
preset profiles I'm going to go all
formats instead I'm going to choose mp4
h.264 dv8 ntsc widescreen choose your
quality we're usually going to go with
high quality and export video give it a
name okay and there it goes it's going
to create that video right on your hard
drive wherever you told it to save and
then you're going to be able to upload
that to YouTube Burnitz dvds whatever
you want to do you've just created a
video with open shot video video editor
which is available from open shot video
com pop us an email live at category
five dot TV we'd love to hear from you
this week and if you have any questions
about open shot I would be happy to
answer those on next week's show that's
195 and of course will also relate your
questions over to Jonathan and he'll be
able to answer those for you in the
meantime have a fantastic week sorry to
kind of take over there for
go we got 15 minutes and there we go
that video is already rendered and it
sits on my desktop so let's let's just
let's do it let's take a look default
project I'm going to play it here we go
there it is all done right here live you
too can do that on Linux big news for
open shot and hope as I break my ipod
holder there big news for open shot fans
and of course if you give it a try you
are going to become a fan I guarantee
you Jonathan popped me an e-mail this
afternoon and he said hey by the way
excited to be on the show tonight some
fun facts for you before the broadcast
the open shot team is secretly working
on a new c++ version which is going to
be cross-platform that means it might
show up on some other devices such as
maybe your Mac or maybe he has something
else also a new animation framework and
it's going to power the future version
of open shot so these are other items
that are going to be available through
them so they're just about to announce
it I think I just did just ruined it not
surprised so when they send out the
press release say wow I heard about it
first on cat5 TV get me in trouble have
a fantastic week you have a great week
are you to see you guys Hilary great to
see you thanks for being here and you
take care and we'll talk to you next
Tuesday night same time seven o'clock
eastern now go watch the voice yeah
