all right welcome back we're gonna get
straight into it we've got an Amazon
echo dot third-generation we've got a
Google home mini they're about the same
price okay as you can see they're
roughly let's see if I can get in here
if I can click the right buttons they're
roughly the same form factor so they
look about the same about the same
College ooh yeah yeah they're and
stylistically they're pretty similar
there are some differences before we get
into the review before we start actually
testing these devices which are smart
home devices if you're not familiar with
them we're gonna be showing you how they
work in just a couple of moments time I
actually filmed as I unboxed these so
let's get in there and let's take a look
at the boxes that's what they look like
and okay I've got the Google home many
I'm going to set aside and let's get
into the box for the echo dot this is
the third-generation as I mentioned
there so this is the current one in 2018
at the end of the year so this is what
you're gonna be picking up if you if you
get one of these for for a Christmas
gift or something like that
nicely packaged you can see that a lot
of detail has gone into the packaging
and it's not loose within that box it's
really really it's it's well form to the
box looking at this first of all the one
thing that I noticed is that there are a
lot of buttons on top you got the four
buttons here we don't have that at least
not visible on the on the Google device
spinning around I've got power here and
I've also got interestingly enough what
looks like a headphone jack or an audio
output so I can actually connect this to
a bigger speaker system if i want and
i've also got the ability to use
headphones with it so i have tested this
as a podcast broadcasting tool so i plug
my headphones in and listen to a podcast
from the echo dot and it works just fine
it's got the basic manuals as you'd
imagine but you notice that with these
devices they're very they're very
limited as far as their manuals go
because there's no a lot to learn
they're self-explanatory presumably and
we've got a power brick there which is a
barrel connector into the amazon
echo dot nice okay so let's let's pull
out the Google device so this is that's
the Amazon echo dot third gen and I've
also got the Google home mini which is
again current as Alexa giving us a hard
time
Alexa cancel the Google home mini
is this is what is current at the end of
2018 as well so these were both ordered
the same day and there it is so similar
kind of form factor but you notice now
this one the speaker is on the top it's
not wrapped around as you see with the
Amazon echo dot three input wise there's
literally nothing there's no buttons
that you can feel now I have discovered
that there are volume buttons on the
side but they're basically like a touch
sensor then we've got the power input
which is USB mini and we've got a switch
to turn on and off its ability to listen
to me so I always thought when I saw
this ok well this one's got the physical
switch doesn't look like really anything
else but because it has a physical
switch I thought that's going to be the
one because I can I can mute it I can
make it so it it's not a privacy concern
we talked about that in a few moments
again we've got very basic manuals
because presumably they're gonna talk
back to you and they're gonna teach you
how to set them up and they're gonna
walk you through the steps pretty simply
we are at that point in technology which
I love pretty cool stuff and then we've
got a USB sea-can or a USB Micro USB ya
micro connector and it's got its own
power there perfect other than that
anything else in the box that is
everything in the box so nice and simple
nice and sleek that's all it comes with
folks so those are the two devices on
your left is the the Google home Mini
and on the right is the Amazon echo dot
and it's the third generation
there you have it all right so let's
let's actually get a look at these live
in real time on the on the desk here
there they are
so I mentioned with the Google mini it
has a physical tactile switch which will
actually turn off the microphone and if
I flip that mice off it'll actually tell
me that the mic is off and it's gone red
and now it's not able to hear me so if I
say ok Google ok Google
it doesn't respond and before I start
doing this and I apologize because I ok
mic is on
please if you use these devices at home
mute them right now ok because we are
going to be going through this
demonstration we're going to be calling
on these devices I don't want to be
setting our devices I know and I know
that's gonna happen it actually happened
just during the break there somebody
mentioned that that we turned off their
lights and I apologize but that's gonna
happen also an important note that we
have not subscribed to any of their
extra services ok Amazon music Google
music we have not subscribed to those
things because I want to feel what it's
like as a new user out of the box what
is it like to actually use this device
so we may get rejected by some of the
requests that we make because we don't
have those subscriptions but at the same
time I want to show you what you're
going to get out of the box without
having to pay extra subscription fees
now that said we do have an Amazon
account ok obviously I use Amazon and
with that I do have Prime right I also
have G suite account because I use Gmail
as my email provider yeah so between the
two providers those are the services
that I do pay for each month mm-hmm and
that's it so we haven't subscribe to
anything extra if you get the Google
based device and you don't have a G
suite does that impact the services you
can get from the device I honestly I
don't know Jeff I don't think that
there's anything really tapped into it
other than that it taps into my gmail
and everything like that if I want to
give it permission to do so and but but
this is really just I want to be
transparent with the viewers so that
you understand what what I have what
I've done and I and and some people will
do a review of these devices and they'll
set up all the accounts and they'll pay
for the extra additionals and they'll
show you all the wonderful features I
don't want to do that this is a an over
two box this is if you bought this for
mom or dad what are they going to
experience they're not gonna want to set
up a subscription right and maybe they
will but out of the box what's the
experience gonna be like that's where
this review is at okay out of the box
and user experience in addition to that
I should mention that we are partnered
with Amazon so while I'd love you to buy
the Amazon device because we do get a
cut if you use our link I'm just getting
full disclosure right the the review
itself is completely unbiased I want you
to be able to see both devices we're
gonna we're gonna ask them the same
questions we're gonna allow them to
react and I want you to be able to make
a decision based on your own use what's
going to work best for you
so so yes we are partnered with Amazon
I'd love you to buy them we're not
partnered with Google but but you'll
notice through the course of this review
that we're not allowing that to skew our
our judgments at all of the devices
again please turn off the microphones on
your devices so that we don't set them
off if you've got a phone that uses the
Google assistant make sure you turn that
off just for the moment and because we
don't want to be ordering things for you
yep all right so back into it let's get
in here okay so we've got a tactile
switch on the Google home Mini and and I
thought that the Amazon echo dot didn't
have such a thing because it doesn't
really boast of it and this really shows
it off like that's the only
tactile thing that it has the only thing
that you see on the Google home is a
switch to turn off its ability to listen
to you so I thought in my naivety that
well that's the device for me because we
want to be able to turn off that because
we're concerned about security and
privacy we want to be able to turn that
off yes well what I didn't realize is
that the Amazon echo dot also has this
so if I push that button there oh now
the speaker is off so Alexa Alexa
completely unresponsive it's not
listening to me
right now the microphone is in fact
muted hmm so if I unmute that Alexa and
now it's waiting for my command
Alexa cancel all right see Alexa cancel
I think I just called home all right so
a couple of things that I've learned so
I've had this since Sunday so in three
days now since I've had these two
devices and I've given them both a fair
chance and given them a fair test
against one another and the one thing
that I'll say for you parents of young
children I thought that these switches
to turn off the microphone were for
privacy I honestly thought that I
thought because my wife and I have
private conversations we talk about the
finances and whatever else and our
romantic things and we don't want Google
listening we don't want Amazon listening
so that's what those switches are for
what I found out is that those switches
are in fact so that when you're
listening to Christmas music and your
kids come in and they tell Alexa to fart
Alexa fart
Luke stop all over that's what those
switches are for right I had in in one
evening our first evening of having it I
had Christmas music playing for the kids
oh yeah and they set it up so that the
Amazon echo dot would send them a
reminder every 15 minutes to fart music
playing and then turn the microphone off
sure can that is genius that's not you
can get out with both devices okay okay
so we're gonna give these two a fair
shot so we've got Alexa tell me a joke
Jimmy Fallon take it away
what is the horse's favorite band
stalling us okay all right well okay
Google tell me a joke why is Peter Pan
always flying because he could never
Neverland huh why is Peter Pan always
flying because he did never Neverland we
got it twice all right so they both told
me a joke
neither was over-the-top no okay Google
fart the kids love oh okay
okay Google didn't do it maybe it was
silent but violent now I do that because
my cue well that's a disappointment to
report a problem you can send feedback
like to report that my device doesn't
fart it doesn't but the kids for some
reason that's the first thing that they
experimented with now my wife and I were
having a discussion in the kitchen where
and I made you'll you'll maybe
appreciate this so I used coconut milk
to make a not a creme brûlée custard
okay and said oh we should make creme
brulee right now that I've made a vegan
alternative to coconut milk it was with
with cornstarch instead of egg and I
pulled it off it actually was really
really good
excellent my wife said to me well is
that all creme brulee is is custard
mm-hmm and I said Alexa is creme brulee
made of custard here's something I found
on Wikipedia creme brulee also known as
burn cream or Trinity cream is a dessert
consisting of a rich custard base topped
with a texturally contrasting layer of
hardened caramelized sugar
okay Google is creme brulee made of
custard on the website Vespa seats calm
they say creme brulee the simple and
elegant custard creme brulee is a
classic French dessert consisting of a
custard topped with caramelized sugar
very nice search results yes basic yeah
same same result different verbage okay
but they both worked they both answered
my question which is important to me I
want to be able to ask questions and
that's part of the idea behind having an
assistant now if you use either of these
on your phone what I have noticed is
that these are way faster the response
time is instantaneous is that because
it's using your cell phone data well on
my phone it's slow on my phone if I ask
a question if I ask these same questions
they're delayed in order to give me that
answer with either of these devices
especially honestly the Google seems to
be really zippy they are very quick to
answer the question so when I ask a
question is instantly there it knows the
answer it's not waiting my phone on the
other hand using the same like Google
assistant for example it seems to have a
bit of a delay okay one of the so now
okay well what use is that that's cool
that's really neat and everything but we
want to be able to do things like okay
google turn on the light turning the
light on and that to me starts to take
this into the next level so okay Google
Google and I do find that at Ansel I'll
need your permission okay go to me and
cancel it gets confused sometimes if you
start talking and you've already said
the key word and I do find okay Google
is a bit of a tongue twister just pay
close the light I turn off the light
sorry I'm not sure how to help with that
that's my fart not yours
okay Google Google turn off the light
you got it turning off the light do you
find that a tongue-twister a little bit
mm-hmm no no okay
I kind of do Alexa turn on the light
okay not a tongue-twister at all I don't
get tongue-tied on that do you want
right I have a question act okay
can you turn down the volume of the
response because okay the time I would
want to turn off the light is if I was
sleepy so Alexa volume 1 Alexa turn off
the light
beautiful Thanks Alexa volume 7 okay
Google volume 7 Alexa turn on the light
okay okay Google
turn off the light you got it turning
off the light now you notice that we
have a light bulb there and it's just
connected to a smart device here which
is just a power bar so this is a Wi-Fi
connected power bar which cost me no
more than normal power bar and yet it
has connectivity to these devices
through wireless so I can have that
anywhere and all four of those power
outlets plus the USB can be controlled
by voice via either of these devices and
that's why I can say okay Google
turn on the light okay turning on the
light but then I can also say Alexa turn
off the light okay so they play nicely
together they interact together they do
what I don't like though is that with
the Google device it keeps repeating
what I've told it to do I that's why I
like sometimes in the verbage yeah I've
sensed that sometimes that's why I like
the okay I don't want to give our
opinion too much that's why I want you
to make your opinion so but keep that in
mind and listen for that I think that's
fair now we can't play raw like music
here on the review because then we're
gonna be monetized on YouTube but I do
want to show you how easy it is to
request certain genres of music so here
it is it's December 11th when we're
shooting this so I would say okay google
play some Christmas music
alright here's a Google Play Music
station called smooth R&amp;B Christmas okay
okay so it works and I can say okay
google skip this song well this sounds
cool okay what singer is this this is
real love this Christmas by Kenny
Lattimore okay Google stop the music
it's just pretty cool when you're
listening to music and you can just ask
it what Lance is playing because quite
often on the regular radio you don't
necessarily catch who it is
yeah Alexa played me some Christmas
music the station holiday favorites on
Amazon music you notice how I can just
use regular verbage yeah yeah Alexa skip
this song and I like that that I can
just talk to these devices as if they're
in the room and just doing my bidding
Alexa stop the music and Alexa will do
it will do the same response I should
say Alexa play me some Christmas music
Alexa play some Christmas music the
station holiday favorites on Amazon
music I want this to be fair one two one
Alexa what singer is this this is
Michael Buble okay Alexa what CD is this
from Cedric Donald Atkins was a
researcher for the United States
Department of Agriculture completely off
that answer your question no but to be
fair I didn't ask that question of the
okay alright Alexa cancel all right so
it's able to tell me who the singer is
and once I get used to the commands of
each in there a little bit each one is a
little bit different yes
but that does it's able to look it up
for me really really quickly again very
very quick we're able to skip music on
both devices
fantastic now we can get in to some
royalty-free music and this is where I
want to talk about the quality of the
speakers okay so I have personally found
and again we don't want to get into
personal
my opinion too much but I do want to
tell you through the experience over the
past couple of days and this has been
reiterated by other staff in the office
because I've had both of these devices
playing Christmas music in my office and
this is and I did not prompt them they
came to me and said they prefer the
Alexa device over upon me a cancel they
prefer the Amazon echo dot over the
Google home mini really the Google home
mini sounds like a good Bluetooth
speaker right like what you would expect
from a little Bluetooth speaker right
the Amazon echo dot third gen sounds
like a really good full speaker and and
it's pretty much the same form factor
but it does have a much fuller sound and
I hope that we can demonstrate that
tonight certainly these two will be able
to give their judgement and I have a
recorder in front here so what you're
going to hear is going to be from right
in front here from a good quality zoom
h4n and it should be able to pick it up
a little bit anyway so that you can get
a bit of a judgement so okay google play
the fat rat that artist is only
available for google play music
subscribers see that but try this google
play music the fat rat station okay
okay Google what song is this this is
time lapse by the Fat Wreck royalty-free
[Music]
okay set the volume to five
music that's kind of the impression that
I got is it's good it's okay it's like a
Bluetooth speaker you're right it sounds
like something you'd pick up for 20
bucks yeah it's just like and and to be
fair they're not expensive both devices
right price like similarly to one
another we're not gonna talk about
pricing but if they're not an expensive
device and it does work as a Bluetooth
speaker but that's all it sounds like it
doesn't sound exceptional Alexa play the
fat rat songs by the fat rat so Amazon
would write Alexa what song is this this
is unity from unity by the fat rat again
did you sense the difference I am
shocked to say yeah usually I can't tell
it's great the Lexx I said volume two
five
give instructions above certain genres
certain types of music but it's not
gonna be royalty-free focus we can play
so here you go
okay so face is a little better on this
it certainly has on bass yeah you're
right I was feeling it right away yeah
okay it's not a sub woofer but that's it
Tiger one of these devices will connect
to a Bluetooth subwoofer the Alexa
devices I said it the Amazon echo will
connect to their own proprietary like
they have a subwoofer fee for these
devices yeah okay Alexa stop the music
so both of them were able to respond to
that and do a great job of playing a
request by artists name okay okay and
I'm kind of bouncing around but what's
the range of picking a voice the the
Google device I find you do have to be
pretty close to okay you can't have it
across the room it definitely won't pick
you up if you're upstairs and calling
down the stairs to it the Amazon echo on
the other hand I can be anywhere and as
long as as long as I can pretty much
hear you they can hear me and can I head
over that way and do you want to give it
a try yeah okay okay I don't know do you
want to go stand in the bathroom way
over there Jeff and just just speak out
and ask it to turn on the light so I'm
waiting I'm like what a good 30 feet
away at least yeah okay Alexa play me
something from fat rat I can't find
songs by fat rat it's the fat rat but
turn on the light okay turn okay Alexa
turn on the light
Alexa turn on the light okay he's quite
a ways over there now
can you try to have the Google device
turn off the light okay Google turn off
the light sure so they both responded so
that's okay that's all right I just have
a commanding voice
I have found that the Amazon device has
been more sensitive and that's that's
been impressive okay we're gonna do a
quick reminder so Alexa remind me in
five minutes to make coffee
okay I'll remind you in five minutes
okay Google remind me in five minutes to
make coffee
sure I'll remind you at 8:10 p.m. okay
so keep in mind now in five minutes
we're going to hear from both of these
devices which one is going to be the one
that impresses us okay all right okay
Google what's the forecast today tonight
and Barry it's predicted to be - - in
cloudy all right now it's - - in cloudy
Alexa what's the forecast today
currently in Barry it's minus one
degrees Celsius with cloudy skies
tonight you can expect snow flurries
with a low of minus three degrees both
of them did really well in that but they
gave different results so what this
weather where did they put it was five
seconds apart and the weather changes I
was gonna barbecue and I was like when
is the Sun gonna go down and I thought
hey here's a question for okay Google
what time is the Sun gonna go down in
Barry the Sun will set at 4:40 p.m. so I
said okay well I got to get outside it's
getting late Alexa what time is the Sun
gonna set in Barry Barry sunset will be
439 p.m. so okay right again we hear
that the response from the Amazon device
is very succinct like I would answer a
question right it's not repeating back
to me okay all right let's do some
simple math okay Alexa what's five times
32 divided by two the answer to your
calculation is 80
okay Google what's five times 32 divided
by two
it's thinking yeah the lights are going
huh looks like there's a problem
by - the answer is 80 okay a little
quicker that time so it has of trouble
yeah connecting what about some like
let's throw a dot five in there uh Alexa
what's 5 times thirty two point five
divided by two the answer to your
calculation is eighty one point two five
notice again I'm just talking to it like
I'm not having to like the old days
where voice recognition didn't work very
yeah yeah it's like I'm just talking to
it as normal okay Google what is five
times thirty two point five divided by
two
the answer is eighty one point two five
okay yeah so pretty quick too to answer
so that's good
Alexa how much does an amazon.com it go
dot second-generation black it's $19.99
on Amazon after $20 in savings if you'd
like to hear details just ask so I don't
want to give you the price because the
price around the world is different
right and so on we're here in Canada
it's much different but I want to show
okay obviously we expect the Amazon
device to be good at telling us those
kinds of things but we can also say ok
Google how much is an amazon.com on the
website techradar.com they say the
Amazon echo dot third-generation is
available now for 49 pounds and 99 pence
for $49.99 for $79 yeah I think that was
different currencies yes
Amazon's giving me a discount yeah I
noticed that
it's giving me a better price so both of
them answered the question yeah Alexa
find a Starbucks near me I found a
Starbucks
it's 1.5 miles away on Yonge Street and
Barry it's currently closed but will be
open tomorrow in my a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
okay they're closed so that doesn't help
me
okay Google now find a Starbucks near me
I found a few places within 6.9
kilometers the first one is Starbucks at
389 Yonge Street Barry
the second one is Starbucks at 179 live
8 way Barry
the third one is Starbucks at 76 Barry
View Drive Barry okay so they both did
great yeah I don't say the fact that it
mentioned kilometres is yeah arresting
compared to miles reference isn't that
interesting so I have two graphic issues
so I have to say Alexa how long will it
take me to get to Starbucks I found a
it's 1.5 miles away and result in blight
based on current traffic it'll take
about six minutes to drive there okay
okay so it matters how you ask the
question
okay Google how long will it take me to
get to Starbucks the closest Starbucks
is at 620 Yonge Street Barry on it will
take you three minutes to get there by
car in current traffic I've sent the
directions to your phone that's this is
a reminder well there are some reminders
okay Amazon just told me make coffee
mm-hmm there's a reminder but the act
gone did done the echo did sorry yeah
this is a reminder meet coffee Alexa
thank you
no worries the the Google device didn't
tell me what the reminder was no that's
discreet okay Google yes
what's the reminder hi you have two
reminders if you'd like to hear the
details you can give me permission in
the Google home app oh look for personal
results under the settings for this
device they're being very careful on
this you can see the details on your
phone to get these notifications on an
iPhone cancel okay so I can't really
judge that because maybe they're
protecting my privacy but at the same
time I've already activated the device
on my account
I've given it the authorization to use I
asked for the command on the device so I
would say that that's a fail so I would
say Alexa won that one Thank You Alexa
she's so confused now cuz I said the
name Alexa cancel alright so let's try a
couple more okay both told me how long
it's gonna take to Starbucks even though
Google races yes okay google sing me a
song what the fun stuff that it'll do
for it gets canceled cool the day I can
sing Alexa sing me a song
Alexa cancel I have no idea whether it's
royalty free or not both of your win how
in the world do they take the speech
software and make it melodic Melodyne
auto-tune isn't that amazing
Wow about Moe Yoho and auto-tune the
news and how they take the the spoken
word and turn it into music
it's incredible technology they can do
that okay so next up let's try shopping
so we're gonna go shopping let's add
something to our list okay he's okay
yes you want give it a try ask the
Google device okay Google
I cookies to my shopping list okay I got
it cookies to your shopping list okay
well I already bought cookies so get it
off your list
oh okay Google remove cookies from my
shopping list
unfortunately I can't remove items from
your shopping list yet to manage your
list please use the shopping list in the
Google home app so I have to actually go
into the app in order to remove
something from my list okay Jeff try to
order add to my my shopping list on the
Alexa device okay Alexa can you add
eggnog to my shopping list I've added
eggnog to your shopping list okay no I I
have lots of eggnog at home can you you
can never have enough I'll take that off
your list Alexa can you take eggnog off
my shopping list I've checked off eggnog
from your shopping list okay Alexa will
do it Google will not Alexa cancel thank
you
final test is to do with temperature so
I want to know okay Google
what's the temperature outside the
current temperature in Barry is -2 ok ok
Google what's the temperature inside
it's currently 24 degrees is the Celsius
don't you worry Alexa what's the
temperature outside right now it's minus
1 degrees tonight expect a low of minus
3 to 4 new details Alexa what's the
temperature inside inside it's 24 ok
that's warm so it is nice and here right
that can like sit toasty oh that's
actually communicating through my
account with my nest device Oh
my house it's warm in here too it's
comfortable here ok cuz there's like 24
I'm going there's no way this is 24 this
is 24 24 I would say wow we digress
easily don't wait it's like 21 in here
man so opinions of these devices I'd
love to hear from you comment below I
hope that this has been a little bit of
unveiling for you which one is going to
be best now what is my personal opinion
I thought I was gonna really and even
the first day I thought it was gonna
lean toward the Google device it seemed
very responsive it does a really good
job of interpreting my questions whereas
the the Amazon device would would tend
to stumble over some of my questions
more often but as I'm learning how to
ask those questions I'm finding that the
sound quality of the Amazon device is
actually really making me lean that way
the other thing that I do is I take my
devices all over the place mm-hmm so I
took both of these devices as I
mentioned from home having used them at
home to work ok having taken it to work
the Amazon echo dot in the app I can
change the Wi-Fi connectivity so that it
accesses the Wi-Fi at work right the
Google home many on the other hand
having brought it from home to to work
it wouldn't allow me to connect it said
that I'm not on the same Wi-Fi network
so I looked into it and I actually
have to remove the device completely and
reactivate it if I want it's an
unbelievable so but a workaround to that
is at home so I took it home that night
and at home I can delete the Wi-Fi
network then the next day I took it to
work and I added the Wi-Fi network at
work so now it's able to connect at work
but then before I leave work I have to
remember delete the Wi-Fi network
otherwise I will not be able to connect
at home that's not good that's annoying
the Amazon device however I brought that
home then having set it up at work and
it automatically now connected to my
home network so it remembered the
settings for both networks just like my
phone does right and was able to connect
anywhere I went and then I brought it to
the studio and I went through the same
headache where the Google device I had
to first delete the network in order to
be able to connect it here at the studio
and the Amazon device I was able to just
add another Wi-Fi network and connect it
and it was no problem
so those are some thoughts to ponder I
found the Amazon device to be more
user-friendly but both do a very good
job and as you know they both control my
lights they both do all that kind of
stuff and keep in mind this is a
different device so the ability to
control devices that's a separate device
I'll put a link for you below and you
can you can check that out as well
they're not expensive but you can get
all these smart home devices so so post
your opinions we'd appreciate that
now with it being connected to your
Wi-Fi and maybe you don't have the
answer to this could you set it up like
will the devices read what's being
transmitted through your network for
instance I'm thinking you've got NEMS
could you create some sort of a report
within NEMS that is automatically to be
pulled from the devices so you could say
you know hey what is being asked of the
device yeah like you could set you new
Gideon Network yeah within knows and it
goes oh yeah like Amazon calls it skills
I'm not sure about Google how they work
it similar kind of thing okay you
activate it like a like an app okay so
the kids activate it the fart skill so
Alexa and they figured it out Alexa
sorry yeah
Alexa cancel yeah so these are skills
that you add so if I create it so being
the developer of names to answer the
question flat-out if I created a skill
and uploaded it to Amazon store then you
could request that skill I am working on
one for category five that's okay
it ultimately why I got these two
devices is so I developed these these
skills for these devices so you can
listen to our podcasts and things like
that on these devices so yes if they
exist okay does that help it's amazing
that a fart is a skill apparently it is
putting that on my resume and Alexa diet
skills okay so do we have time to talk
about privacy or are we out of time
well what do you want to know like I I
can't bring myself to purchase one of
these okay like if I was to go buy one
you're afraid of Big Brother
not only that I'm just afraid of my data
collection okay like if I was to buy one
100% I would go with Amazon echo um just
based on today alone like I'm sold that
that's where I go but I don't like the
idea of it listening all the time even
like it could sit there all day and I
could never say her name but it's gonna
listen the whole time but you do get
used you get used to walking in the room
and saying Alexa play the fat rat
shuffling songs by the fat Wow I know
turns on using and you reach out and now
Alexa Alexa Alexa Alexa you do get used
to that especially when you got kids
running around and there doesn't mean
likes not listening
it is not listening but I'm still not
convinced Alexa stop the music the fact
that
if you don't think about it that's
that's what I struggle with like I don't
activate the the voice controls for my
phone I refuse to do it because I don't
like the idea of it always listening to
me solo music what is the microphone but
what is the privacy protections on these
like because I know what like you hear
stories where and I want to say was
covered not necessarily in the news for
us but about a month ago there was
somebody there was a home invasion and
the person didn't activate their device
but it still heard the distress and
called the police
well before the show you were telling
that story and you said it's name call
the police it started dialing and I had
to halt it yes because if you if you
state it then yeah I will it will do
that be careful with your word and so
what you're very helpful it can be very
very helpful in a case like that
sure it can which is wonderful but I
just it's I don't know there's something
in me I'm like I just can't do it I'm
it's the fact that everything is being
listened to I just I can't I can't
mentally get money there until you say
the key word there's not there's no
transaction happening and the
transaction is what I say after the key
word but it's not about the transaction
it's the fact that it's right now it's
still listening because it's waiting for
the name to be called but what's it
doing with that data it's not that's the
question that's exactly why Jeff that
these devices you can't change their
name to Bob Alexa change your name to
Bob sorry I can only help change the
wake word to one of these Amazon
computer or echo 3 options okay because
in it's very very finite system that is
built into this because you're thinking
that the cloud is always listening to
you know the device is listening for
those three key words so it is here in
my network waiting for those key words
as soon as I activate it with key word
now the cloud is activated and waiting
for my command so when I ask for the
weather forecast that request goes out
to the cloud and is translated and then
sent back instantaneously I still don't
buy it
and maybe I'm just being skeptical
you're skeptical afraid of technology
and the future and possibly a little
conspiracy theorist
oh sure 100% I I know that I have
conspiracy theory tendencies but it's
the fact that it's always listening it
may not be accessing the club but it's
always listening and I just can't help
but wonder no it's not listening alexa
alexa alexa alexa alexa that's why i
love that it does have that button
because i do have that privacy feature
and when I'm not using it because I'm
not always using it you don't have to
leave it on all the time Jeff
when I'm not using it well if you are
really that bad unplug the power yeah
come on true I agree oh for goodness
sake Jeff I know I I'm sure there's
people watching this they're just like
why is this guy on a tech show filled
with plants take out Jeff edit him out
let me know your opinions we'd love to
hear from you if you if you have similar
concerns to Jeff hey post them below and
maybe some of the community can react
and respond to that I have a very
different mindset in that I trust the
encryption that is there and I do
believe that the information that you
know I'm asking for the weather I don't
really I'm surfing the web I'm going on
the web to get my weather it's no
different than asking it this way it's
just a different interface yeah you had
me at like set the reminders I feel like
that's Anna and Amazon's device one that
one yeah I love that it just hey time to
make coffee yeah I love it I like it let
us know your thoughts everybody comment
below make sure you give us a like and a
thumbs up and to subscribe if you if you
appreciated this this hopefully unbiased
comparison links are below again we are
a partner with Amazon so you're welcome
to use our link we'd appreciate that
I've also got a link to that device that
I use to turn on and off the light and
we've got a link to the Google home Mini
as well although they're not a partner
so we don't get a cut of that so don't
bother
by these words totally kidding you make
up your own mind alright Alexa can you
beatbox
