for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
you
welcome to episode number 2 85 of
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
the fifth of March 2013 hey hey
everybody how are you yay i'm sure i'm
good how are you doing good super pac
silence how are you at home see lots of
friendly faces Swiss Andy it's great to
see you again Nelson nice to see you and
nice to have you here it was our
pleasure having Nelson here last week
talking about the net Park duo's and all
those devices if you missed it make sure
you check it out because it's a good way
to save you some money Troy 74 good guy
nice to see you hey everybody my name is
joining us in chatham a jamison nice to
see it that's good rockin chat room
today lots action alright let me tease
you with the new yeah you want tell us
what's coming up and then we'll shake up
some witty banter off the top sounds a
bit of a chat so coming up in the
newsroom HP's new all-in-one run xubuntu
and costs under five hundred and fifty
dollars which is 349 pounds sweet very
cool big changes in the aboon to sphere
as cannot canonical announces their own
display manager and unity built on cutie
hmm the Herschel telescope is about to
go blind and a new walking stick for the
elderly will email you if they fall over
which reminds me of harry potter for
some reason sounds like quite the
technology i can't wait to hear more
yeah stick around new stories are coming
up later in the show very good thank you
yeah how you been good yeah yeah gearing
up its merged almost March Break I know
crazy this has been the craziest day
folks just so you know in order to get
ready for tonight's feature because
we're gonna be taking a look at valves
steam on linux mm-hmm had to upgrade the
demo system to Zorin OS 6 ultimate I've
been waiting and waiting to do this
because Zoran 5 worked so very well for
us and I did hit a couple of snags
I don't know quite whether it's saurons
faltered or maybe an update or something
but it was if we were very close this is
about the closest we've ever been to
happen to say you know what it's not
gonna happen tonight that's how scary it
was I'm so happy you didn't tell me that
oh wow so here we are we're live we've
got it seems that we've got a working
Zorin OS 6 ultimate demo system seems to
be working ok right now I'm being very
very cautious not to copy anything to
the clipboard because here's the weird
thing it's an interaction with synergy
mm-hmm and the version of maybe the
nvidia drivers or comp is or something
is not interacting very well synergy is
why why I only have to have one keyboard
and a mouse right we've got multiple
computers you can see if you're watching
backstage pass and in fact I might be
able to show you no no way to show you
but if you're watching backstage pass
you see I've got one keyboard one mouse
operating everything that's synergy
that's synergy and that's causing a
problem synergy is causing the prob well
not necessarily synergy but something
it's something in the interaction
between multiple different things that's
why it's so difficult ah so yeah nice
well at least we're under control now
we're not I go so let's let's do this
thing alright have some fun tonight like
I said we're gonna be taking a look at
steam for Linux we're gonna tell you all
about what that is basically it's a way
for you to install incredible video
games on your linux computer so you know
if you've been holding on to windows
thinking don't want to switch over to
linux because there's just not the game
and well now valve steam is available so
stick around were going to show you how
to install that how to use it that is
exciting stuff lots of viewer questions
tonight too yes so we're gonna tackle as
many of those from that was hard good
yeah okay did you do what's up what's up
with you yeah you're just like
I'm gonna have a sip of my team is going
to tell that my voice is dreadful
tonight I know poor Ravi fight battling
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
and the International Association of
Internet broadcasters nice of course
we've got our mobile website pardon me
mcat five dot TV love you to check that
out scan that code and that will take
you over to our mobile website on your
device also really big kind of I don't
know a really cool feature that I've
added to the website this past weekend
is that you can actually receive each
episode now by email so if you'd like to
subscribe that way you'll actually be
able to get an email from our website
automatically after each show so if you
set it up tonight for example when this
show becomes available episode number 2
85 you'll receive an email with the link
with more than just the link you get it
you get the video file you get you get a
free download if you want to download it
in HD you can download it here put it on
a stick put it on the TV whatever you
want to do it also has a built-in stream
link so that will launch a player and
automatically start streaming to your
computer so you don't have to download
it it's got information about what the
episode was about it's basically in all
around you know if you can't get to the
website week after week or you tend to
forget about the show and and then you
fall behind by a few weeks here's a
chance for you to keep up with him to
have that constant reminder yeah I'm
going to show you how we do this all you
have to do is get over to our website
category 5 TV click on login or register
up at the top you see that mm-hmm and
then you can register if you haven't
already got an account but of course if
you do have an account you can simply
sign in which I'm going to just do with
my own account here
when you do so hard meat you're going to
get your 10 viewer points for your login
and now go two members and my profile
and you'll see your profile there and
you can see that now you can receive the
weekly episode by email so simply check
that off and you'll you'll begin
receiving that we're also introducing an
email that will pop you a quick email
one hour before each live show so just
making it so that you have some form of
a reminder that the the show is about to
take place hmmm that's handy but the
email once a week how cool you know you
get that by email give it a try we don't
spam anything you know we don't spam
anyone if you turn it on you'll get them
if you turn it off you want so you can
always give it a try if you don't like
it log back in to your account and
uncheck the box excellent you get
another ten points for logging in to
uncheck the box you do yeah just keep
blogging in check it uncheck it no I
mean what does that get yeah that gets
you mentions right on our homepage now
we can see the top ten viewers this
month we've got sprint cowboy pires rock
this world Swiss A&amp;E how filled night
starve alpen one jot Troy 74 coordinator
and 9jd yeah you see China's climates
way up on our top 10 countries as well
nine point eight percent beating out
Canada and of course United States is
huge as far as viewership goes so nice
to have you view hey the world I can't
believe China has already beat out
Canada I know but it's such a huge
population that's true as soon as we say
okay we're now available in China and
we've got some syndicate partners out
there that are distributing the show
then you know suddenly guess what
happens yeah yeah yeahs gonna give
United States a run for their money feel
like it's in the Olympics here I'm
looking at it really we've got some cool
features on our site don't know if
you've checked it out lately but do
check it out we also have under up that
we've got the viewer location app which
i think is a really cool thing this
takes your IP address so these are the
people that are watching the show mm-hmm
and you can see you know if you want to
see China you can zoom in and see how
many people are watching in China which
even since last week we see that there
are
a few new viewers so that's cool I ry9
ok and Germany is it pretty much
saturated I can't even read the the
country names there's Canada in the US
very nice so check this out it's
actually real time so when you open it
connects to our database and it and it's
anonymous there you know we don't track
anybody by their individual information
we just log in IP address so these pins
are literally just placed by an IP
address and that's that's the viewer
location man if that's my dad in Mexico
hi dad thanks for watching very cool
well we've got to take a really really
quick break after the break we're gonna
be taking a look at Valve's Steam so
stick around and bear with me tonight
folks ok i love you i know you love me
too so well we'll make it through
together tonight alright you mean I say
I'll save ya I'll get daddy do some of
the shattered stuff I'll do the chatty
stuff all wanna get through this I beam
let me tell you all about steve yes she
holds up 40 this water is very hot
alright folks we'll be right back after
this don't corner at eco alkalines we
believe you should be able to trust your
batteries not just here but here here
and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here eco alkalines of the
world's first and only certified carbon
neutral battery manufactured to the
highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the eco alkalines
difference eco alkalines calm
alright this is the point when I would
usually be reading a post card because I
love to read the post cards however we
didn't get any this week but please send
a postcard to category 5 TV p.o box to
9009 Barrie Ontario Canada l4n 7 w 7 so
that i can read from all of the fabulous
places all over the world mm-hmm like
Lithuania love to receive them also want
to say hello to all of our viewers on
YouTube tonight if you're watching this
in the Hangout make sure you note that
the hangouts are not in HD you can catch
the show afterwards when it goes up and
it will be in 720p but certainly nice to
have you here for our hangouts as well
also blip TV Miro internet TV and first
run TV nice to have you viewing through
those services as well all right okay
can I do it folks and now and now like I
almost have to talk like that like well
will you just whisper and use a really
deep kind of radial like voice so
radiant gonna try good old medicine
delicious yeah all right here we go so
steam on linux yeah our chat room is
rocking it is Sarah Jane she's guy I
can't find a postcard from my time just
for the the halls to vaporize and Taylor
yeah picture get granny for anyone else
when he switches camera views oh that
would be that's artifacting a flash
video encoder so you won't see that in
the in the download after the show so Oh
see what happened robbie wants to take a
break from talking so i asked him a
direct question that i couldn't answer
i'm not kind of friend nice Robbie so
one of the things about linux that
sometimes holds people back from
switching from windows is
the inaccessibility of certain
applications and so you know sometimes
you think well I'm sick of Windows so
I'm just going to go buy a mac well then
you've got the same problem where the
same programs you know if you use
QuickBooks you can't use QuickBooks
anymore you know so you render the same
kind of snags because it's a different
operating system be like switching from
blackberry to Android right you wouldn't
have the same access or worse yet
switching from Android to blackberry
there's such a difference in what's
available on those two different
platforms programs like valve steam are
there to try to bridge the gap so that
there's not such a gap between platforms
steam works on mac linux and windows and
it's a game delivery mechanism so you
it's actually set up in such a way that
that you can install games from any of
those platforms okay okay so if a game
is available on linux using valve steam
which is now available for you we're
going to take a look at it in just a few
moments if it's available on linux you
install it now it's a part of your
account you go up to your Windows
computer and you've got steam on that as
well and you can install it on there so
if you buy it you know you can like it
it's like a disk but you don't have the
disk to move around it's all done
through downloads so really really cool
mechanism and I think this is going to
really push Linux to to the gamer I mean
if you're a gamer check this out tonight
what we're going to start with is
actually installing it so I've brought
up the website and we're going to have
all the information for you in the show
notes of episode number 2 85 but
basically I'm just going to to the steam
website that is steam powered com
clicked on install steam and now you see
that it's given me a Linux installer or
in your case it might be windows or mac
so I'll click on install steam now and
that's going to give me a debian package
so here i am in chrome so it's putting
it down at the bottom they're asking me
if I want to keep it so say yep keep and
then I can click on it as its
downloading and tell it to open but
that's going to open it as soon as it's
done
so now with zoar no s6 and ubuntu and
ubuntu based distros it's going to bring
up the Ubuntu Software Center and you
see you the steam launcher is ready to
install so I'll click on install now
just a note that that I actually had to
upgrade to a later version of Zorin OS
in order to do this so you may have to
do the same if you're using an older
distro so just install that doesn't take
too long
there are a fair number of games that
are available for Linux without using
steam but what's neat about this is it
gives you a delivery platform where
everything is available in one place so
now that its installed just tells me
that all I need to do is just run it for
the first time so we'll close out of the
software center and we'll launch that on
there goes launching itself so looks
like it's downloading a bunch of
packages to our system and we're gonna
do this together tonight there we go
Lisa moves pretty quick mm-hmm are you
bit of a gamer me yeah a bit of a game
watcher my boyfriend's a big gamer and I
cheer him on i'm a bit of a game
cheerleader yeah backseat gamer you can
kill the lord of lies yeah yeah yeah
here we go first time in what do you
want to do I'm going to create a new
account because I don't have one yet you
can also connect with it looks like a
ps3 account or something like that no no
and we can log into an existing account
of course if if you already have a steam
account so let's create our account we
are good user so we're going to read
that yeah and we're going to agree and
oh look another one and agree to that
okay so create your account name enter a
password and then we're just going to go
next and you see that the steps are
really quite simple here mm-hmm email
address for my account there we are
and now it's creating the actual account
on the steam servers so now steam i
should note is again you know available
for Windows Linux and Mac we're doing
this on linux tonight because it just
recently became available on Linux which
is an exciting thing so now that I've
got my account I should be able to
launch that it's going to connect to the
server using my account for the first
time and I got a warning there and i'm
just going to accelerate the video here
i got a warning there that my driver is
not a current enough version to run
steam so i'm going to go into my
additional drivers in my system settings
and i get out great 2304 branch i use an
nvidia card so that's what i'm going to
do now 310 I find that 310 can be much
less stable than 30 for both of them are
experimental there's the the warning
message just so you see system is
running an older proprietary and video
video driver cuz i'm just using the
stable version it requires three or four
or higher so i'm going to activate the
304 not the 310 because i do find that
it has more problems in my case so you
may have to you might end up breaking
your video subsystem i don't i should
just say for the record that I don't
like that it's forcing us to install
kind of betta software but we want to
just get this going for tonight and just
be ready to revert back if if you're not
happy with the settings let's see what
happens here we go reboot the computer
and now we once that comes back up we
should be good to go so I was saying a
little bit you know I'm not too pleased
about the fact that I've got installed
these experimental drivers because when
you get into you know putting in 304 and
310 branch that are unstable of the
nvidia drivers you could run into
problems when i install the 310 software
it completely crashed and wouldn't boot
up my system so that would be a really
big problem so instead of a warning to
you that you might expect that that
could happen so in that case I had to
manually go into terminal and and use my
xorg.conf file if you're not familiar
with that I would stay away from the 310
just in case okay so okay so next up
we're going to install our very first
game so this is the wasting looks I've
clicked on store and go into team
fortress 2 just because you'll see that
that is a free-to-play game I want to
try something that's free to play just
to get me started so you see how it's
windows mac or linux compatible and i
can just go zip and install and it's
telling me it's gonna be six days yeah
why not have it today I guess they're
assuming that I'm on dial-up you want to
put an icon on the desktop or what have
you and there we go so now it's just
simply installing we're not advertising
any particular game I'm just throwing
one on real quick that happens to be
free to play and available on linux and
i wouldn't mind showing you some of the
other options that are available here as
well it looks like it's not going to let
me unfortunately so once team fortress 2
is installed of course and click on play
and now it's still downloading so i can
turn on launch game as soon as it's
ready it's going to take me about looks
like about 15 minutes but i'll
accelerate this how time flies your
magic of TV is incredible there we go
all done so i can boot her up
and we can start playing just like that
so now I've got a game that is free to
play which means that it's not a free
game necessarily you may have to pay in
order to get certain features of the
game but it's free to get into the game
it's free to begin playing and install
it and give it a go but you may have to
buy things if if you want to be a real
player right right tools sometimes that
can be in game but free-to-play games
allow you to to kind of check things out
to get hooked mmhmm yeah exactly exactly
let's go to steam-powered again and and
we're just going to take a look at what
the store looks like now I can't bring
up steam on the system live right now
just because I've put my graphic drivers
back to the stable branch because of
some problems that it caused but you can
see here so this is exactly what the
store looks like from within steam as
well so we're okay to do that because
i'm on linux of course i'm going to want
to click on linux and i'll see what
games are available for linux and you'll
notice that there's a price tag with
most most of these it's going to be
about you know 20 30 40 bucks so it's
the cost of buying a video game
sometimes I mean here's some that are
399 199 more like app prices but not a
lot of free-to-play stuff right not a
lot of free stuff which was a little bit
surprising to me because I imagine that
you know linux users kind of across the
board do hope for a fair bit of freebies
but I think what's team is doing is is
quite a bit different as they're
providing not free games they're
providing commercial games and a
distribution platform for those and
making them available on linux and
windows and mac so you can get these
games and install them really really
easy run them on your system and there's
nothing to it you pay for it once and
then you can install it as many times as
you need to write so looking at that you
know some of the games are a little bit
older but still classics that's right
but there are quite a few good games as
well but you'll see here windows mac and
linux so if i buy this game for twenty
bucks i can install it on any of those
systems so i can start with my linux
system and then move it around or
whatever I want to do so this is looking
at it from the Linux perspective
personally I think it would be nice if I
could zoom in a little bit further and
say okay well I want to see just the
games that are you know under 10 bucks
or free to play only but generally if I
click on the Linux tab because I'm a
linux user it's going to be just you
know sorted by however they sort it so
you would think okay well let's zoom in
on you know the free-to-play games now
that I'm in the linux tab and of course
now what happens is is it's given me all
the free-to-play stuff but most of them
are windows and mac oh oh look at that
this one's windows only windows only
windows only windows only so you can see
that as far as the interface goes it's
not as intuitive as I would have thought
it could have been but it is still very
very unjust came out to linux and it
would be nice to see some some
improvements their windows mac and linux
free to play so i can install that if I
wanted to dwarfs yeah so kind of cool in
the way that it's set up in that you
know if I do click on a let's see if I
find a game when hopefully one that see
see what I mean as a linux user a little
disappointing as far as the selection
goes for linux i'm seeing a lot of
Windows and Mac mm-hmm and I think that
that that's okay but there should be a
way to just focus in on just give me all
the linux stuff sort through yeah I
don't care about all this window stuff
well use team fortress is the example
again because it is free to play and
it's available for all three systems
let's make sure we move this down there
so here you know you get a page with
video screen shots and you know all that
kind of stuff so you can go through find
out a little bit more about the game you
can play it for free with free to play
or you can actually buy some of the
packages that are available and you see
that some of them well now these are you
know all different kinds of things this
is like a package that includes many
different games valve complete pack
comes with 25 games for example so it's
really you know it becomes this really
cool delivery platform if you're a real
gamer for 100 bucks you get 25 games
that's pretty awesome but then again
here i am looking at a game that i
wanted to find because it's linux
compatible and i see that the valve
complete pack is only for windows oh so
a little bit unintuitive as far as that
goes we got a wii at we have to be a
little bit careful about which one you
know when you're going through you've
gotta click on the linux find one that
works for you you know whether it be a
twenty-dollar game or whatever and you
can buy it as far as the distribution
platform goes it works really really
well really really fast i mean it told
me it was going to be six days but it
obviously wasn't it took 15 minutes or
something like that to get the game so
and this is new so there are chance it's
been available on well it started on
Windows and then launched into mac and
then it's been rumored for so long that
they were going to be coming to Linux
here we are it's finally happened I
think what's exciting about you know it
is new to linux but what's exciting
about it is it's going to really drive
graphic card manufacturers to improve
their drivers and to improve their
support to build you know more gamma
below for the linux operating system so
it's going to not only help gamers but
it's also going to help us in you know
regular users who want to be able to do
3d accelerated graphics and things so i
expect the because steam is requiring
that we use unstable drivers and Vidya
might say you know what that's that's
driving a need for this driver to be
complete to be stable and we'll see what
happens but it could happen even though
it's it's unstable drivers performance
very very good I can't show you too many
clips but this is team fortress 2 on our
system with an nvidia just a cheap and
video card you know and frame rate is
exceptionally good motion is good
control is excellent and this is of
course through linux so it's in crab how
great is that so i encourage you to
check it out that's valve steam it's
steampowered com and we're just looking
at how to install that and try it there
you go and you know a lot of the games
are fairly modern
good graphics a lot of fun this one's a
little bit comic book ish so don't mind
showing a little bit of the bullets and
stuff cuz this very comic booky but here
I am watching video games a few back at
dave's house check that up
steampowered.com we're looking at it
from a Linux perspective but if you've
got windows or mac it's for you as well
steampowered.com you look like you're
where did it hit the new that's right
here are the top stories from the
category 5 TV news room HP has launched
a brand new all-in-one PC running a boon
to love it yeah the specs of the device
aren't going to blow the socks off
anyone that's not a negative the
pavilion 20 is a cop is competent enough
and it's computing prowess to make it a
model machine for everyday tasks so from
email to office work web browsing and
YouTube cat video marathons this machine
should be capable of handling it you
don't sound I'm een they mentioned in
the story that it's not the most
powerful thing but you look at this
stuff mm-hmm and we're on a different
kind of trendy we don't need the huge
specs that we needed five years ago it
was as it was pressed for more cores
more power more gigahertz more RAM now
how is it that my little one gigahertz
tablet seems to run faster than my 3.6
gigahertz desktop right it's all kind of
relative to what you're doing with it
and if it's running a boon to which it
is we know that a boon to has got a real
solid focus on mobile computing AKA
these kinds of devices so we're
expecting really good performance even
though the specs may not be quite as
high right interesting to see that HP
just sold off webos though and now
they're launching this line with with
ubuntu hmm that's exciting stuff now the
wow factor real wow factor comes from a
surprising it's just 349 pounds at just
349 pounds HP has pitched the pc well
within the reach of the average consumer
a similar though not identical model is
available with windows 8 press priced at
490
nine pounds nice so uh yeah I could do
this and puts them in a market against
windows 8 and hopefully they'll be on
the display next to it and people say oh
let's get that give out my save myself a
couple hundred pounds mm-hmm pavilion 20
all in one all right according to a
recent announcement a boon to will use
its own display server called mere
replacing X Window Server the reason
abloom two will use its own display
server is that none of the existing
solutions would allow us to implement
our vision without taking major
compromises which would come at the cost
of user experience and quality and
obviously to achieve full convergence a
hot topic recently that has caused quite
a bit of controversy hmm mirror is
essentially a display server that works
across desktop and mobile devices if
you're wondering what will happen to
existing applications that require acts
mirror has covered that and it will come
up with this with support for legacy X
applications including integration for
variety of toolkits unity next will be
integrated on top of mirror and the you
i will use cutie and will use much of
the code that's already available in the
aboon to touch Developer Preview the
ultimate goal is to provide a seamless
scale across multiple form factors and
carry unities visual design and identity
this means unity on the phone tablet TV
and desktop will share the same code
base so this convergence that Mark
Shuttleworth has been talking about is
starting to take shape nice very cool
now where does that leave kubuntu
Lubuntu Lubuntu and zip into we should
find that out soon after the respective
teams analyze their options that's
really interesting m and and a crazy
push but it makes sense and I think I
love the idea of for an end user having
the same desktop on all your devices and
platforms mm-hmm
I see I'm so new to this that I just
feel like I'm coming into it at a good
time well I've got so many customers who
you know they use microsoft windows
seven or eight mm-hmm and they just
bought an iphone well I'm clueless as to
how to set up my email can't figure out
how to use it because it's so very
different mm-hmm but this I think mac OS
is pretty similar to iOS and its
functionality a little bit a little bit
but what boon to and canonical are doing
is is much more integrated so I'm
talking take your telephone yeah plug it
into your monitor and it's your screen
up like it just makes sense I like it
all right that's crazy mm-hmm the
European Space Agency is about to lose
the use of one of its flagship
satellites since 2009 the billion euro
Herschel telescope has been unraveling
the complexities of star birth and
galaxy evolution but it's instrument
instruments employ special detectors
that need to be chilled to fantastically
low temperatures hmm lower than are
already in space feel like it's gold up
there the helium refrigerant that does
this job will run out in a few weeks and
what it does Herschel will go blind the
coming demise of the telescope is no
surprise it is occurring justice was
forecast at the start of the mission
almost to the month they get something
more renewable like dilithium that just
like that's what that's what i was
saying dilithium just exactly like
dilithium engineering tests will be
conducted on the telescope in April the
SS operations team will then put the
satellite into a slow drift around the
Sun before ceasing all communications so
as it does gonna slowly hover around the
Sun for a bit probably crash into it so
I take it out but I mean it's taking
some exceptional photos like stuff of
galaxies and nebulas and stuff that
we've never been able to see before they
should do a Herschel memorial of all the
pictures taken that would be great yeah
just uh
and like our postcard wall of pictures
that personal is taken yeah in memory of
Herschel hmm well look at that will put
that together that yeah or something
with somebody well yeah okay this is the
best ever a walking stick with built-in
sat sat nav is that satellite navigation
yeah enough yet has been developed by a
Japanese technology giant food jitsu
Fuji to fujitsu hmm the next generation
cane is designed to help elderly people
find their way the next next generation
generation Kane is interested yeah all
right to help elderly people find their
way as well as monitor things such as
heart rate and temperature its location
can also be followed online and can be
set up send email alert if it thinks the
user may have fallen over which is
interesting because I see so many people
leaving and forgetting their canes
behind this right yeah because if you're
getting up there in age you're also kind
of forgetting stuff sometimes if it has
like two way communication robot voice
and stuff you know yeah okay take that
old neck lace fallen and I can't get up
and I love it this stick send data back
to the host computers so a caregiver or
relative can see the location of the
user with additional data such as heart
rate being streamed I can't imagine how
that would be accurate but maybe there's
like sensor in the hand holder but were
you hold I don't know it's got me if we
stick detects an irregular heartbeat it
can automatically contact emergency
services I don't know why this is very
Harry Potter to me I just love it a lot
yeah best thing it's like here here dad
like I'm gonna give you a cane that
allows me to spy on yourself they
probably won't even tell them they'll be
like this is a beautiful cane for you
yes it's so gloss I know like that has a
little LEDs and if you fall over it
calls me sure you were toast to you yeah
does it have Siri that's what I wanna
know but what what is curious about this
is you know when i'm old i know i'm
gonna be a nasty old man
gonna like hit people with my cane and
stuff so you know what happened yeah
it's like emailing the police you know
there's a flogging going or something
what was that movie with the precogs I
don't know oh no with a Tom Cruise and
and people would get arrested before
they committed a crime okay because in
the future they could detect when you
were thinking about doing so maybe this
cane that would be like look into that
like this is a Christian right now just
emails if you fall over but if you start
hitting somebody it'll it will report
you and it will shock you it actually
has a built-in and a shocking system but
you know one of those tasers the cane is
just the beginning you never know what
they're gonna come up with folks Wow get
full get the full stories at category 5
TV / newsroom the category 5 TV news
room is researched by roy w Nash with
contributions by our community of yours
if you have a news story you think is
worthy of on-air mentioned email
newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room I'm stash it
through made us thanks Sasha no problem
thank you for whoever found this cane
story tonight show is brought to you in
part by quarter e electric at quarter e
electric com netflix at cat five TV /
netflix and nap talk to a Wi-Fi at cat
five dot TV / phone make sure you go
check them out mm-hmm well we've got
lots of viewer questions from you
tonight and you know I've committed over
the past couple weeks I've said you know
I feel really bad when we don't have
time with all the things that go on in
the studio and stuff so tonight we are
dedicated to answering some of your
questions so here we Garza Oh try and
get through them all Swiss Andy from
Switzerland says hi Robbie nice oh
thanks sorry not me yeah ice never
talked to me so I did not okay yeah it's
now light okay now i'm so sandy hi
Robbie here's three
suggestions concerning the category five
dot TV sites number one it couldn't hurt
announcing the category five what pulse
team again plus the new what Paul
software release to point now I'm gonna
intro okay ladies and gentlemen the
category five dot TV what Paul's team is
found at cat five TV / pulse yay some
users are still using the version one
point we still have some catching up to
do yeah let's take a look at what okay
cat five TV / pulse gives you there we
are we've got 12 members of our team
right now but you people say and and
Sasha said to me before the show what
pulse is that that thing that that's
being a facebook type 6 million
characters and then Eric always responds
and says nobody cares man that'd yeah
that's what it is what more i care
because it is a competition and I am
whooping garbey first time at that must
have uninstalled it or some parodies
type it away right now he's like I just
haven't pulsed in a week so we've got
you know garbey and Swiss Andy Gilligan
there you go hey Jameson there you go up
on my screen you see he's saying but
it's a keylogger oh boy they're watching
everything that you type and locking it
no they're not no they're not I wouldn't
even think that I'm so naive we actually
have a video on Linux tech show com I'll
just point you that way about what
Paulson what it does it doesn't log the
keys in sequence it logs and numerical
expression of the keys so if I type in
you know let's say I type in the word
Robbie so it's going to know that I've
pressed are once I've pressed be twice
I've prison I once right and then it
pulses on a regular schedule so that
might be once a day so in the course of
a day it just simply uploads okay well
he pressed q12 times he pressed p ten
times right and then it logs those
numbers like that you should have extra
points for more unique number or letters
like
there you go you should get more points
out you know it's it's a count but a
Jameson saying but it's a that's a
keylogger so yeah if I enter in my
credit card number you know 55 89 blah
blah blah keep going yeah is it funny
it's gonna log that track there right no
it's not gonna lock the credit card
number it's not going to upload your
credit card number because it's it's
just gonna know that I pressed five
twice mm-hmm I pressed 8 once i press it
doesn't know the sequence it doesn't
know yeah and if you've ever played like
letterpress it's very hard to figure out
what words have been typed I just
haven't you haven't pulsed you know you
you know I pulse you know once every
every 15 minutes or something right so
what that means is then it uploads by my
stats so it becomes even harder because
if i type 10,000 characters it doesn't
know what order they are or anything
like don't don't be concerned about that
a Jameson so looking at our what Paul's
team once you've joined what else you go
to cat five TV / pulse sign up install
the the system and then it starts
keeping track of how many characters you
press so for me I'm currently in the
lead with that six million four hundred
and twenty eight thousand nine hundred
seventy nine so it matters to some
people Eric because they want to try to
catch up to me Robbie paid me to ask
this question first so he could just
bring up that he's in the lead Emily I
didn't even know look at more time and I
type like crazy yeah and just for the
record the the f is for founder founder
see the f in the brackets okay question
2 on the ask a question page there's an
option for questions for on-air and
comments for on-air right it would come
in handy having another option like
comment for off air to send
comments and suggestions that might not
be worthy of a consuming precious on air
time right so Justin enough author well
this is because you're you're at the
yeah the like the ask a question but
yeah no I hear ya typically you would
click on contact us and email us or
whatever if it was for something else
but if it's yeah it's a question for
on-air you know I can change that yeah
sure so a cat five dot TV / ask is your
place to ask a question and we'll add a
feature so that you can send me
something for often super hey Robbie I
love your hair tonight thank you we
didn't really have to read that on the
air could have just been a compliment
and yet here it is on air everybody
loves just giving an example Robbie's
solar panel personal viewpoints can be
seen in the my profile section yes but
there is no longer ranking page for all
users with their respective user points
it was a nice feature on the previous
sites yes viewer points have recently
been reintegrated into our website I'm
just getting in there okay here we go so
members my profile my viewer points so
for me it's you know I don't really log
my own viewer points that would be kind
of silly so but for you you know you
view somebody else's profile and you
know there's Swiss Andy with 2900 but
you're right there's no list of you know
who's winning and we learned and maybe
this is because this all the all these
questions all come from swiss and e su
sandy likes competition and likes to see
lists where Robbie's in the lead so
there we go but you're you're doing
pretty good there and then you know as
far as the list goes you're in our top
10 this week at number three so you're
on the podium so we do show the top 10
but we don't show anything beyond that
yet all of these things are coming
because you know it's it's all priority
stuff really we work on making sure the
show is is as good as possible and then
we trickle in new features into the
website as we can so we're all
volunteers here the show as you know so
that's that's kind of how it works
yes okay here's a hot question from John
hey John I recently joined what pulse
and noticed it was it has a heat map
showing the hotness of my keyboard all
right obviously it is pretty hot
although it mostly seniors to be the
backspace and spacebar they get very hot
is that because I am very hot I've
included a picture by the way a lot of
errors I want to know hit space a lot
when you're jumping it says is that
because I'm very hot I've included a
picture by the way I will laugh am NOT a
victim what is it I don't know yet
picture John my berry he precedes the
question is my statement about the
picture was okay I'm hot okay so let's
see okay oh it's a picture of his hair
it's a picture of the heat map what do
you think not a picture of John okay can
you show me while I'm gonna bring it up
okay excellent don't have your screen
tonight okay and then he says awesome
stuff about chocolate mmm which is why
we're reading this question Zach for the
record I give you chocolate before the
show you those who are wondering how
come she didn't get chocolate this time
I did yes she did yeah that's all taken
care of I ate it all though already okay
so we were talking about what Paul
Sandra Jamison and here's here's a
John's hot hot map and you can see that
okay he hit space a whole lot but I
don't know the order I can see that he's
hit 15 890 a fair number of times but I
don't know the order so I don't know
what any of that means all I know is
that there's this heat map I can tell
that he's a gamer hmm wasd cute shift
you know okay so which colors it mean
the coolest they're all that starts at
verbal starts at purple knows its way up
to read and kind of in a spectrum q
you're not pushing q a lot so you're
doing a lot of running
it's good using those keys a lot too so
moves around the keyboard and and does a
fair bit of deleting and out yeah yeah
cool that's something that what Paul's
also gives you as a heat map which is
kind of interesting to see where where
you type in a lot when I saw my heat map
I realized I really should switch from
QWERTY to Dvorak and you'll remember I
started talking about that pires rakia
you remember but never could get to that
point where I could take two weeks off
basically to learn dvorak mm-hmm because
I'm a programmer and there's no way like
a program 10 words per minute like I
type 180 so for me to sit down and and
slow myself down like that just can't do
it I want to them so what is that the
different so qwerty you look at your
keyboard you wer see why that's the the
positioning of the character so that's
what we're used to the Elm almena kind
of key set oh that's where the keys are
located Dvorak well qwerty was designed
for typewriters I knew that actually so
they don't jam up so I don't jam up
right um because they did the
mathematics and some genius figured out
that you're probably going to be
rotating between left and right left and
right so when these things are going
there going like this they're never
going like that at the same time in
getting clogged mm-hmm so that was kind
of brilliant but now that we're on
computers it's really stupid really that
we're using QWERTY keyboards and on our
phones and stuff it doesn't make a lot
of sense because we don't have that
problem anymore Dvorak was developed the
different keyboard layout to make more
sense to the computer user because we
don't have the problem of keys jamming
it is basically an ergonomic thing so
it's better for you physically to be
typing in dvorak rather than coordinate
qwerty will cause carpal tunnel syndrome
and all different kinds of issues of the
type a lot I found a way to rule yeah I
am gonna learn it apparently if you
learn dvorak really well you'll be way
faster I'd be afraid of the flames if I
learn to type Dvorak I am doing this I'm
gonna serve
can I just find a Dvorak keyboard you
see John's keyboard right that's a 40
qwe rty yeah so let's just get on to
google let's say and we'll type in
dvorak ha hi what's going on ok
simplified keyboard Wikipedia should be
safe so see it's a different layout the
keys are not where you would expect them
to be imagine the things I'll
accidentally type to begin with well
it'll be amazing I'm doing this yeah oh
the a is in the right right place my
wedding looks like a man it is possibly
in the right place to everything else is
kind of crazy this is gonna be fun the
colon would take a long time to get used
to did you / is in the normal place did
you learn how to type with mavis beacon
oh yeah a little bit yeah well yeah so
and Mario teaches typing way back and no
that was fun yeah so now i'm just gonna
undo everything Mavis taught me and I'm
gonna learn dvorak exactly okay I have a
question from gizmo at work thank you
smile he says hi there my wife has a
small reflexology business and a website
to promote it Getty Images has sent her
a letter asking for two thousand seven
hundred and fifty dollars for three
small thumbnail pictures within 15 days
or legal actions will occur searching
the web it seems the company is known
for this fear where for its fear where
practices and most of what i read
suggests to ignore them until official
action has occurred which could cost
them more for now I remove the pictures
from her website any other suggestions
yeah that's smart boom it's an
unfortunate situation because when you
build a website and if you're building a
website never ever ever grab pictures
off google or anything like that you
know google images is a great great
thing you notice that i actually brought
up wikipedia because i knew that that
was going to be a you know an open
source or whatever image but if i do an
image search for you know let's do the
the CN Tower and I go to Google Images I
say oh you know what there's a really
cool picture of the CN Tower I'm gonna
use that on my website well somebody
owns that picture and it's not you you
never took that picture you haven't
bought that
picture so you don't have the right to
use it it's illegal to use it okay so he
already took the pictures off the
website but it was on there in the first
place and Getty Images isn't is known to
use it almost a similar technology to 10
I wear it compares pictures and finds
other websites that are using pictures
that they don't have license to use
because when you buy a picture from
Getty Images you give them your website
address that is going to appear on so if
they find it on another website they
know that you didn't pay for it so you
would have to buy the same picture more
than once if you wanted raw more than
one website website yes so they know
that the artist who took the picture did
not get paid the artist knows that
they're not getting paid for your usage
of that image so it's it's a violation
of the policies of getty images because
they provide legal representation for
their artists the people who take the
photos wow that said they are a little
bit Shady three thousand dollars for
three thumbnails well sure thousand
bucks a pop no problem they operate on
the premise essentially that people are
going to pay whatever you do don't phone
them because they are masters of
manipulation and masters of making you
feel like you've done some unbelievable
crime yes it's illegal to use images
that that you don't have the right to
use but there's also the same called
fair use which is to say if you're not
making money off of something mm-hmm you
know like if you're not making money off
something then really is it it it within
a certain amount of reason and in your
case you've immediately removed them
from your website upon realizing that
you don't have the right to use them
that seems like a fair solution to me
Getty Images would probably say
otherwise but would it stand up in a
court of law not necessarily because
it's you know you you probably didn't
know that you were violating anything so
now you do so now you know that you need
to be more careful when you put images
up on your wife's website just take
picture
take pictures yourself that's the safest
thing mm-hmm the next best thing is
obviously you know we aren't gonna go
shopping at getty images yeah because we
just don't like their business practices
istockphoto is a pretty decent service
istockphoto okay so here I type in CN
Tower and I see oh look that's pretty
similar image right and it says here you
go what do you want you only want a
thumbnail it's extra small so it's only
going to cost you ten bucks sure what
you're doing there you're not buying the
image it's not yours you still can only
use it in one place but for nine and a
quarter istockphoto is selling me the
license to use that image so now I have
the right to use it legally and if
anyone ever gives me a hard time over it
i can say look i bought it a nice knock
hey that's awesome so you're protecting
yourself there you've got a legal
contract that is binding with I stock
that says you've purchased that image is
there anywhere you can get free pictures
you're in free images oh sure look for
GPL license stuff which you can you know
you can get into Google or any search
engine and type probably another term is
royalty free royalty-free means you're
not going to have to pay for its use and
when I do a search for royalty free
images you'll notice that the first
thing that comes up is of course I stock
photo mm-hmm because they're selling me
royalty-free there are a whole bunch of
other results too chances are pretty
good notice Getty Images is also one of
the royalty free because yeah you do
have to pay for the licenses a lot of
times you might be able to find GPL
right GPL images perhaps but it's it can
be hard to find harder to find free
stuff that you're actually legitimately
allowed to use in a commercial purpose
like you defer for a business website
versus just going to I stock and
spending nine nine dollars in a quarter
right that's if you pay per image you
can also buy credits which brings down
the price if you prepay 20 credits
you're actually going to save money so
that's an option
too so do you need to be worried about
this Getty Images thing technically you
know I would be obliged to say yeah
because they that is a legal thing do
you need to worry about it no don't lose
sleep over it it's not that big of a
deal they use scare tactics and they
will push they'll if they have your
phone number they will call and they're
like any collection agency right right
you can disagree with their practices
but legally they technically have the
right to give you a hard time over
you've removed the images from your
website though so they really you know
it's under fair use your kind of your
kind of like whoops that was an accident
and you know let's not do it again yeah
that ought to be enough in my opinion
will they take you to court over and I
don't think so not for three thousand
dollars that's not to say that it's okay
to do to use stuff illegally knowingly
but I don't think that's the case mm-hmm
I don't think that that's what happened
here also poor guy I hope that helps do
we have time for another question I
don't see so there are a couple of
suggestions there in the in the chat
room I see let's see here Jonathan in
the chat room thank you has come up with
a sock exchange ASX chue looks like okay
I know my way around it but it says that
it is a royalty-free free stock photo
site I don't know so it's called stock
exchange stock dot xchng in Google found
me there I don't know that's good to
know I feel like I would just copy and
paste pictures mm-hmm unknowingly sxc hu
also ostrov mentioning that's a good
idea to search through Creative Commons
will post likes don't worry we're going
to post lens on the show notes for you
Creative Commons is a huge repository
you know that category 5 is licensed
under creative commons attribution which
means you can download this for free
this whole show is free you don't have
to worry about somebody coming after you
and say
hey you didn't pay for that so you know
CN Tower let's see what happens CN Tower
oh that's not images search is it let's
see search for creative commons on
flickr because those are images there's
also fotopedia things like that let's do
that okay so here are some creative
commons licensed photographs of the CN
tower so far that none of them are stock
worthy they're not nearly the quality
that you would expect from a you know
these are home photos kind of thing
mm-hmm but you might be able to find
stuff that way and because it's licensed
under Creative Commons it means that
observed Creative Commons will say
Creative Commons Attribution that means
if you take this show and distribute it
you can't say this is the Safa show no
this is category 5 technology TV you
have to attribute it correctly otherwise
you're you're renaming rebranding that's
the only kind of stipulation that sounds
kind of cool yeah thank you for watching
yes thank you everybody for watching
such a special hmm so too mm-hmm 85 yeah
how'd you get here already that is like
it's literally all the time that we have
check out my blog it's bald nerd com
lots of interesting things going on over
there next week you have Abigail here
Abigail will be here we're going to be
continuing our series on how to create a
photo booth very haney we've got all the
parts you've seen the photos in our
Google+ community cat5 TV / g + or on
facebook cat5 TV / facebook seen the
photos of us actually going to the store
and we cut up all the PVC pipes and
we're ready to go no
oh yeah it's really really cool stuff
next week we're gonna actually be
building that making it happen so don't
miss it thanks everybody thanks for
sticking it out with me tonight thanks
Ashley thank you hey every week yeah
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcast live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at 7pm easter if
you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
