welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live and category five dot
TV and now let's begin here's your host
Rob a Ferguson welcome to episode number
217 of category 5 technology TV it's
Tuesday November the seven no the 15th
why do I do that every tuesday i forget
the date there it is the 15th of 2011
it's nice to have you here tonight we've
got lots going on we've got mark ruelas
joining us from brother canada he's
going to be talking to us about
establishing technology within our home
office is going to improve our home
office environment for us also we are
going to be we're going to be talking
about a brand new device from
thermaltake is called a doctor power to
and it is going to allow us to test our
power supplies to make sure that we are
going to get the best performance and
the best life out of our computers yay
our that's a good software dr. power
that's what's called dr. Pam we'll talk
all about it in just a few hey nice to
see everybody in the in the chat room
they're dead damn damn damn damn damn
damn cool thanks for the compliment
invisible mutant I am Robbie Ferguson
and welcoming your your questions in the
chat room or email us live at category 5
TV
hello Oh what the when did you get here
this is my really belated fell do you
think before the show is like make sure
I say my name you say your name and I
like gotcha and it yeah alright so
coming up in the newsroom can you trust
the app store find out why the answer is
probably no pogoplug is now offering
free online cloud storage entirely
compatible with their devices and
scientists plan to recreate recreate the
conditions of Earth's core so stick
around these stories are coming up later
it could be hot it's going to be a hot
news story I tell you wowie hey check
out our mobile site category 5 is
available on your device Denton Anna and
you can go to mobile cat five dot TV to
check it out and we are streaming live
right now to your ipod touch or iphone 4
or 4s device i wanted to say five you
know i wanted to say five we all wanted
to say five but alas and with mobile cat
five dot TV for our mobile site check it
out also you can visit our new online
store we we've updated our cafepress
store you can go to cat five dot TV /
shop you'll be able to get a category 5
mug a deck cow for your laptop it yeah
you know like a mouse pad a mug a mug
for drinking your coffee on let's go to
our store you can go to our store you
can get a t-shirt says category 5 on it
you've got a category 5 rupee you gotta
put a bit more in the store in that rub
e in the dark on it so check it out
count five TV / shop we got a good start
going on there cafepress for our season
5 merch and if you pick something up
make sure you take a picture of yourself
with that piece of merch and will
certainly give you some fewer points in
exchange perfect stocking stuffer for
mom cat five yes whoo what is this
category 5 Christmas to remember it's
like TV mom but it's on the internet
what TV on the internet what's that yeah
it's the hardest thing to explain to
people too but hey this is the way
things are going my friend
well so good to see everybody nice to
see some friendly faces that we haven't
seen for quite a while in the chat room
there Abby Abby Abby joining us John as
well John and Abby Abby Abby and myself
used to play quite a bit together on
planet calypso hmm which was those were
good times now it's like you know jots
off on another planet and I and Abby is
they had a hard drive crash or some
crazy thing so I'm in there and I'm
playing all by myself with other people
summer girl is in there and everything
else but what they've all gone to better
games no there's no such thing no gain
on the graphics no oh we're gonna have
to get her in cuz she hasn't seen it in
about two years version he showed me the
other week and it was just know him did
not gonna room he couldn't get out of it
he showed me and you're like I could
come back down the hall okay that was
when my computer was completely busted
that's why I was stuck in her room hello
seriously hmm bad example Rachel Wow
okay oh it is such a pleasure to have
mark Ruella joining us again tonight
mark it's good to see ya good to see you
again Robbie thanks for having me again
yeah it's been a while about a year ago
we had marked on the show you remember
and that mark talked to us about
organizing ourselves in our office and
mark one of the things that has always
stayed with me since the last time you
were on the show back last October early
November was that that one thing that
you said you said touch it once and it's
such a simple thing to say but it stuck
with me and I'll tell you the truth it
actually impacted my work ethics in the
office and and has really made a
difference that over time for your
family once meeting uh if you have a
pile of papers in front of you if you're
going to take something and do something
about it make sure that you go all the
way on that one document to make sure
that after you can throw either throw
the document way or spyler to whatever
but once it's handled it's done so in
other words still pick it up and put it
back down and pick it up and put it back
down mm-hmm and that's what we tend to
do in today's world is you get an email
and it's like oh I'll set that aside and
i'll get to it or I'll
my agenda to get to it and I'm finding
you know over the past year just
actually responding at least and saying
okay here's what's going to happen is
gently push things along so I appreciate
that and it's a real pleasure to have
you back on the show thanks thanks for
having mark of course i'll let you
introduce your company everybody's
familiar with brother mark joins us from
brother here in canada and yeah i'll let
you I know you're anxious to to tell us
about what you've been up to over the
past year and what what you're doing
these days well these days we've been
you know putting out new products and
basically geared towards home office and
small office that's basically our area
of expertise and you know the home
office is a growing trend right now in
Canada well there was a study that was
recently done by hipster sorry for
brother and it shows that fully half of
working canadians actually work out of
their home office at least part of the
time so and they do this for various
reasons so but namely the main reasons
are because it's more comfortable right
and also because it's very flexible
arrangement and more and more employers
are finding that that arrangement
flexible too so there's a lot of need
for technology to go into the home
office but one of the things that struck
me about this study is that only two out
of ten people actually enjoy the fact
that their home office was productive
and efficient so that's not a big
percentage of people who are satisfied
you know with the efficiency of their
home office so what I brought with me
today is it like a few tools that you
can work with in your home office to
increase your productivity help you get
to help you get on your feet and really
productive and organized in the hole in
my home office I one of the first things
I brought is a is an iPad to demonstrate
a couple of apps actually that are cool
for the home office let me just go into
them one of the apps that we found that
that works pretty cool for the home
office is called Dropbox you may be
familiar with it limb is you know some
lot of people listening might be
familiar with it but it's actually an
app that it's like a virtual hard drive
on the internet that you can upload
files to and share with people and the
cool thing about it's a free app up you
know up until two gigs of space you can
write that
and.and I mean for people who have email
and I will always run into the problem
of having a files that are too big to
email it's it's really a good solution
so it's a great app to have and another
app that we found that the well of
course is my favorite is the brother I
print and scan app which which is
enables you to wirelessly print for scan
from an all-in-one like this one while
we're here 825 this is one of our most
recent models that that came out it's a
jam-packed with with all sorts of cool
features and one of them being the i
printed scan and for example I'll just
grab a document here and I'll put it
into the Machine hit the Scan button and
we'll get a scan going and I mean
wireless technology is all about the
freedom of you know moving about your
home office and doing things inside your
home office free from being stuck two
wires and and it's good for especially
for the home office because you're often
moving between the home office and and
your house itself right so it's a it
helps in that flexible arrangement one
of the things mark that I found hard
when I was working from home was not
just that being able to have
multi-functions and and all that goes up
but clutter was really the big issue and
using Wi-Fi like this so you're actually
scanning directly through Wi-Fi I just
gettin that document directly into the
TV I've had that easily yes it was that
simple and you bring up a good point
about clutter because if say for example
you've got a lot of hard copy laying
around your office and I think as people
discover multifunction machines or like
all-in-ones one of the features that
they often are not familiar first with
is scanning and yet that feature has a
lot of power to it like I was saying if
you have a lot of stuff a lot of paper
lying around your office you can
actually scan that all into the computer
organize it in your computer and take
the hard copy and just shred it so you
can imagine how much more clean your
home office will be if you do that if
you get rid of all the hard copy and
just keep it on your computer obviously
you know you need backups as well your
your backup hard drive or maybe you're
backing up on the cloud but the
important thing is
is to you know is to feel more organized
in your home office and that's an
absolutely great way to do it as I'm
getting more and more into the mobile
technology of even something simple like
my ipod touch and your app obviously is
going to work on this device to and
Android as well I would expect yeah it
works with with the with the iPad the
ipod touch it works with the also with
the android powered phones greater so
what when I scam if I put something into
my brother scanner and I scan it to say
my ipod touch where is that file within
my cloud where does that actual file
reside well it resides first of all in
your image in your image application and
they are the device itself yeah with any
advice itself yeah and then you can move
it to to ever you wish you can email it
to someone or it basically it stays
within the image application so like my
image role for example my phone's acting
okay so and I'd like to draw viewers
attention as well to an app called the
pogoplug just because you were
mentioning dropbox and what i actually
uses a device / app combo called
pogoplug and with that device on like
Dropbox where you get the two gigs or
possibly more if you get a better deal
for free with the pogoplug i'm not sure
if you've heard of it mark but I read
about one of your your users was like
going crazy but he said I don't even
need it but I want to get it oh
absolutely well with with my poker plug
in my ipod touch I've got an 88 gig ipod
touch so now come combined with the
brother technology to scan in here now I
can transfer to my external hard drive
through my virtual cloud through my
Wi-Fi to my pogoplug connected USB hard
drive very much like the dropbox
scenario where you could upload
something to dropbox and it's available
to you now from your device from
anywhere it's a similar kind of scenario
but unlimited amounts of space because i
can add my own hard drives as I go so
it's it's amazing the way that this we
were talking with the zebra last week
about the cloud and how I've seen the
cloud really becoming personal with
devices like what you're offering here
with that with your new multi function
centres with the Wi-Fi and I know you've
been working on perfecting that
technology for some time how do you see
the cloud really and we're using the
term the cloud but this kind of files
just kind of floating and and being
available to you everywhere how does
that impact the Home Office well I think
it has some practical applications in
the Home Office for sure backup is one
of the first and more practical ones to
save you know the one that will help you
become safer but we've also noticed that
there's a trend moving from wireless
like a sub trend of wireless which is
web connectivity and for example model
like this one can connect and so you can
actually like scan for example a photo
and upload it to Flickr google docs
right Wow and another in other
applications on the web that are you
know that are designed for that kind of
use right also go and fetch them from
those applications on the web so there's
a you know we find that there's a trend
going from Wireless into connectivity
with the web directly from the Machine
and you don't even need your computer to
do that and that's one of the things
that we're seeing is that we're stepping
away from having to sit at a desk we're
sitting at a coffee shop with our tablet
or device now being able to do all the
things that that we're doing as janitors
network printing goes something that
I've always been curious about because I
see the option and i know my pogoplug
also supports network-connected printing
and stuff but i know also the brother
printers have the Wi-Fi capability
directly within my home how am i able to
use my brother printer to print from my
device well it's if so long as your
brother printers on your wireless
networking has its all its name on the
run on the on the wireless network you
can use your device to print to it it's
either of many many brother printers and
all the ones have wireless connection or
Ethernet connection if you want to plug
directly into wired router as well and
it's usually a very very simple
operation to set these up I mean one of
the things that we are constantly
concerned with is user friendliness I
mean you know we're talking about all
sorts of technology but in essence the
really important thing is that they be
easy to use and that that's what I think
that's one of been one of our hallmark
things that we've worked on in the past
years is to offer this technology but
you know stuff that only you need a few
a few simple steps to be able to use it
with right yeah and it's been very
intuitive i use a brother printer myself
and and the interface is very intuitive
very easy to use even for a really
novice user so I know I I'll just kind
of let you speak about about the the
home office and where you how's
technology don't yet and we got pretty
far into I know I get off on a tangent
I'm sorry yeah no no it's it's really
interesting stuff that's why we always
talk about it but there are also
technologies that are really a much
simpler but can be just as effective for
the home office I give an example I
brought this this is a right a it's
basically a p-touch labeler and it's a
portable labor that you can use in your
home office and the great particularity
about this machine is that you can print
on different colored labels with it and
if they're very fairly easy to change
its just a cassette like this that you
removed and put back in like that and
you've been able to change your color
well what's the application to that look
for example you've got a lot of hard
copy still in your in your home office
perhaps you have file folders that you
put them in well you can develop a
color-coded system where you actually
have file folders that are coated like
this for example and which enables you
to choose the right folder send me to
take the financial folder it just I I
don't even have to read what's on the
label I'll just grab the one that's blue
right I can do that in the blink of an
eye so color coding actually helps you
find things faster so it's it's a really
simple technology application but it
actually works it's it's something
that's that's very effective I keep
things simple and fast to find right I
realized like some people may think oh
well that seems so obvious and so but I
one thing i love my p-touch Laidler i
mean it can be used for so many
different things but when you're looking
when I look in my file drawer quite
often I do get lost among you know just
tons and tons of files and that that
makes sense that color
you even have the capability with your
p-touch laidler to add little patterns
and when I do my wine bottles I've use
it to label my wine and I put a little a
couple of grapes on the on the label and
it's all there so well yeah and where
the label it becomes really cool is that
we have a series in the line of labelers
that are that are connectable to your
computer really means that you can take
any any type of graphic or text from
your computer slap it on to the label
sometimes you can just take it by by
screen capture or you can type it in or
you can go punch it as an image
somewhere i have enough i'll put it on
the label and print it out so you can
basically have the freedom to print just
about anything on your label when these
when the machines are connected to pc so
it's it's a it's a great application you
to get creative in the Home Office to be
able to organize yourself okay and I
think organization really comes from the
sense of wanting to be organized and
having the right mindset when you walk
into the office I was saying as to a few
people i've met over the tour that we
just did and i was asking what would you
would you sit in your home office and
work in your pajamas you know how does
that make you feel so so what I
recommend is that you dress as if you're
going to real office when working in
your home office so it kind of a kind of
tunes you in I mean it's got in effect
that's uh that's beyond or i should say
it's not it's not really conscious
effect but it's it's it's really
something that that you feel when you're
in that that type of clothes absolutely
yeah I like I say I was self-employed
for nine years and I know exactly what
you're talking about and and Murphy's
Law there's something about it where if
I'm sitting around in my bathrobe you
know that's the day that someone server
is going to go down and I'm out the door
so but but there is that mindset where
yeah if I get up and I dress
appropriately for work as even though
I'm working at home it really puts you
in that frame of mind to be productive
it's a simple tool yeah that's one of
those the simple tools that you can use
for the Home Office I was going back to
what we were talking about to inkjet
machines and and all the features that
come on and one of the trends we solved
resolved we've also noticed in the past
past few years has been the trend
towards a business inkjet machines so
people in the home
office want to get more more serious
business inkjet machines that can print
more copies and we've come out with a
line that's actually 11 x c is 17
printing business machines and we've had
actually quite a lot of assists success
with them more than we we we actually
imagine what's the foot kind on a
machine like that because 11 x 17 is
pretty massive it's it's not much bigger
than well yeah livin by 17 is he'll just
show you what the actual size the
printout is this is like if you take to
a nap by 11 printouts that's what that's
what 11 supply 17 is so and i'm
obviously the advantage of this is you
can you you're actually doing your own
market in here you can write you can
create your own your own posters or
stuff like that with with an 11 x 17
machine and machine itself is a bit
bigger than the small one here the this
is sadie a 25 but the the home office
version but you can but this is a big
bit bigger and more business more
professional series right and it still
fits in your office pretty well if you
compared to say printers that existed
even 10 years ago it's actually it's
pretty amazing looking at this so that
one on my left your right is printing at
11 x 17 this one on my left yeah but
soon well yeah on your mylar and one of
the great things about it is that people
also have a you know concerned about
about saving money on ink and and
machine like this can address it because
it you can actually get super high yield
cartridges like this one for example
which will which will give you
approximately 2,400 pages per cartridge
so this is a big cartridges for for
business use or people just print a lot
you know yeah and certainly if you're
using this it's it's nice not to have to
change your cartridge on a regular basis
home businesses often it's it's it's
tough to get out and get to the store
buy a new cartridge and sometimes you
don't always have one on hand so there's
that that factor as well yeah that's
also helpful as well yo so these are
both duplexing printers I understand
right well yeah they both print on on on
both sides of the page which is an
obvious advantage because you can create
documents that look that much more
the printed on both sides say duplex
printing obviously is good for the
environment at it saves on paper and
it's it it also it'll save you money
because you're saving on paper and uh
it's uh it's basically a great feature
and something that people are asking for
more and more and that's why we're
integrating it into so many machines in
our lineup it's interesting that you
mention the the conservation of paper
and and eco-friendliness at what is you
know as a small business we want to be
eco-friendly we want to be a co
eco-minded as much as possible sometimes
it's not always possible we look for
devices and look for products that are
going to help us that way what is
brother's response to to that need for
for users who are looking to be more
eco-friendly in their home office well
we've been building features like duplex
printing recently into the machines but
also their features like for example a
draft print that we've built in which
which help you save on ink and obviously
if you're changing cartridges less often
you're throwing lesson to the
environment into the end of the garbage
we also have features like n in one
printing which is the taking of say four
different pages and printing them on on
one page for example if yeah exactly if
you have if you have a 70 page document
and you want to proof it before actually
printing it well print within and one
and use your state that you've cut that
down by F but you know one quarter to
one quarter of its of its original size
in terms of paper that you're using and
ink as well very cool i love the idea of
the super high yield characters as well
i was by high yield not knowing that the
super high yield is available that's
fantastic so that makes a big difference
to I mean people need to realize that
not only are we changing the cartridge
less frequently but that's a lot less
going in the landfill and actually that
can make a big difference as well the
cartridges are they recyclable as well
well yeah that's that's another
particularity of the brother products
that you'll find is well at least two
laser products obviously yeah sorry
obviously the the danger cartridges can
be recyclable if you breathing bring
them to your local your local equal wail
like a year local ego center okay yeah
so I mean and they'll dispose of them
there but we also have a recycling
program for certain of our laser
cartridges and the particularity of our
laser cartridges is that the drum and
toner is separate for example when you
buy a single unit a laser cartridge you
have the whole system of drum and toner
or integrated into wine but it so
happens that the drum unit lasts a lot
longer then then people think and we've
developed a system where the drum can
stay in your machine and you're just
changing the cartridge and the drum will
have to be disposed of recycled or you
know sent back basically after twenty
thousand pages or 25,000 pages so if the
drum has a much longer life and we take
advantage of that and we change the
toner instead of the toner and drum
every time we're good we're talking with
Mark ruell from Brother Canada and we
will be right back after this quick
message from one of our sponsors with
mark and we've got a great announcement
because we're going to be giving away
one of these one of these printers to
you as well so stick around they're
hitting the road or the dusty trails
liquid image Canada captures the action
with a true point of view HD video
camera directly into a high-quality MX
goggle it records every bit of the
excitement exactly how you
if my octane isn't your thing take a
relaxing underwater adventure and
capture it forever in high definition
video with a high quality underwater
camera mask from liquid image Canada
perfect for the enthusiast snorkeler or
the deep sea diver check out the entire
line of camera masks for every sport
liquid image canada.com this is category
5 technology TV you'll find us online
triple w category 5 TV i'm your host
Robbie Ferguson and I'm Rachel shoe
you've covered that she's getting quick
she's getting quick we are joined
tonight by by Mark ruell who's joins us
from Brother Canada and it's fantastic
having you here and now mark i'll let
you i'll let you chat a little bit more
before we we get going we've got to get
into our new segment here sure i would
say basically to wrap up i would say you
know if there's a lot of great
technology out there for home offices
and sometimes it's simple sometimes it's
really sophisticated but the important
thing is that to take advantage of this
technology to increase the productivity
in your office and you'll get more
organized for sure if you want to see
more of a more some of this kind of
equipment and kind of for the home
office you can go to brother dot CA as
well to have a look oh good i see that
you've also introduced a twitter account
as well brother canada so we did
encourage that viewers to to go follow
them they just started that account I
understand about a week ago so welcome
welcome to Twitter and and it's really
been great having you on the show once
again mark now we are going to be giving
away one of these multifunction centers
that are behind you here yeah that's all
right this is an mfc j 8 35 DW it has
two sided printing it's wireless it's
web connect so you can upload photos or
download photos from places like Google
Docs and Picasa and other such sites and
it also actually prints on CDs we didn't
talk about that but you can actually
hear you have a tray you can actually
put your CD in there and print on it
very gofte that's just about everything
except coffee well then I don't know
all good it's all good mark thank you so
much for being on the show if you would
like to win that beautiful printer there
from Brother Canada visit our website
right in my blog it's cat five TV / blog
for your chance to win mark great having
you on the show once again you take care
and I look forward to having you on the
show again sometime in the near future
take care this is category 5 technology
TV you'll find us online triple w
category five dot TV and yeah well it's
a it's very cool to to learn about that
kind of organization and how technology
can can drive our office to be more
organized no longer self-employed myself
but I know we do have you know you may
be self-employed or maybe you've got a
home office even if it's not for
employment it's good to keep yourself
organized and brother is is definitely
the forefront of that so cool stuff
really cool stuff yeah I was gonna say
what you said before me so yeah good
good so um you got what you want to hear
some viewer questions you know what I'm
looking at the time and we you know time
just flies by in that first first half
but we should we should probably jump
right into the news if the news let's
see if I can get through this so messing
everything up already giving anything to
overly complex I was kind yeah alrighty
so here a malicious piece of software
designed for iphones and ipads has been
created to show that apple's app store
is not immune to malware the code was
designed to look like a stock price
tracker but was also able to steal data
experts said that the proof of concept
program was a significant threat to the
app store apple declined to comment but
remove the app and barred the developer
from its store the software was created
by security expert and hacker Charlie
Miller to demonstrate apples
vulnerabilities Apple accepted the
program to its itunes app store in
September two months later mr. Miller
revealed that it contained malware that
could remotely download pictures and
contacts he says until now you could
just download everything from the App
Store and not worry about it being
malicious now you have no idea what the
app might do so mr. Miller plans to
present his research at a security
conference in Taiwan
thursday and pogoplug the remote access
service that lets you connect your
hardware has officially launched their
own cloud I just imagined them releasing
a cloud into the sky you free go free
okay so they've launched a cloud right
the cloud has been launched people this
is a free online storage service that
offers users 5 gigabytes of space to
store whatever data they'd like unlike
pogo plugs remote access services or
cloud offering does not require any
hardware components from the user I'm
sorry I can't get the image out of it
what is it with the news and new co-host
people hey hey shambhu there's a service
can augment products like the pogoplug
device and pogoplug software for
computers but won't replace them if
users would like more than 5 gigabytes
of oh its storage it's not even that
it's not funny at all Wow okay I we're
gonna talk about a little cartoon on the
foods then make an upgrade to paid
accounts 50 gigabytes of star shore go
friend have an ID you i gettin through
this right okay I'm fired okay they will
go for 995 month oh hi drew kike fight
well be 19 hang over my ok but of course
you just can add their own stove nothing
it's not gonna make my mother but of
course users can also add their own
pogoplug device to add their own storage
to the cloud using USB hard drives and a
high-speed internet connection all right
we got through it you did whoa alright
and now we have an experiment to
recreate the extreme conditions of the
center of the earth and this was
officially opened on Thursday the ID 24
beam line at the european synchrotron
radiation facility do I say that right
synchrotron cloud don't we'll use x-ray
beams to subject iron and other
materials to extra I thought it said
extra terrestrial temperatures
extraordinary temperatures and pressures
how the x-rays are absorbed should give
insight into the mysterious processes
going on at and near the Earth's core
the newly upgraded ID 24 makes it
possible to focus the x-rays to a much
smaller spot than existing facilities
just millionths of a meter what is more
the reactions that go on as a matter is
heated and squeezed can be monitored
with a resolution hundreds of times
higher with snapshots occurring every
millionth of a second the hope is that
the work could unravel mysteries such as
why the Earth's magnetic field can flip
the earth core which is around 3,000
kilometers below sea level can't be
reached directly by scientists in fact
research continues in an attempt to
drill through just the Earth's outer
most layer the crest is at its thinnest
between the oceans comparatively the
crest is just 10 kilometers thick so it
is left to laboratory experiments to
attempt to recreate the conditions at
the core to investigate how the Earth's
magnetic field comes about why changes
and house shockwaves from earthquakes
propagate through it experts fear that
such experiments may release toxic gases
from the car causing humans to mutate
into Hulk like forums wait a minute so
find out more about that visit esrf EU
the category newsroom is researched by
roy wa ash and simple 10 with
contributions by our community of yours
if you have a new story you think is
worthy of on ER mention email newsroom
at category 5 TV for the category 5 TV
news room I'm Rachel shoe whoo got
through it you got room barely barely
what is it about clouds that make you
laugh so I don't know wasn't that funny
i just got going and couldn't stop
hmm from now on every time I do the news
she's just gonna have like class it's
gonna be all about that word just
throwing it I'm just gonna I'm gonna
just do a search on Google News for
cloud and just see what I can come up
with unbelievable so if you if you
didn't know before now you know that we
are not a news broadcast but that we r
AQ &amp; a broadcast and we try to slip in
some news about the cloud but sometimes
we don't get through that's all good so
but we did receive some questions this
week and we're anxious to get to your
questions for sure okay so we have here
Scott Lewin and this question is I'm
thinking about purchasing a kobo vox
what do you think about it and you have
any concern sharing information between
the box and Linux know what caused the
cocoa PO Boxes android-based right so
combo box from kobo ebooks kaam KO Bo
there it is kobo vox I don't think
you're gonna have any trouble with
compatibility I mean it's it's Android
right look at their features lists
right here's the one thing that is a
little bit odd about the the kobo vox is
that it is android OS 2.3 and you know
that android is up to version four so
it's an older version of android but the
thing is is that maybe that's all that
they need because it's really it's
designed to be a reader that has some
enhanced features like a color screen
and and the ability to do more than just
read news and read your books so so
maybe there will be an update to a later
version of Android down the road who
knows but I wouldn't have any concerns
about that it's designed to be well it's
Android right it's designed so that you
can customize it so that you can access
your stuff and they're good price cool
specs too so kobo ebooks calm no
concerns no alrighty so we have another
question from Dennis West Paul can I
just say if you do if I made if you do
end up buying that I want to see a
picture of you watching category five on
that device cool alrighty so Dennis
Westfall he says hey Robbie and
surprisingly sexy co-host this must have
been men for erics week oh this was last
week yes yeah I understand so um I have
a boon to 1110 installed on my netbook
it's an IBL lenovo thinkpad x30 one i
have it turned tuned with 768 megabytes
of ram and i'm wondering if there isn't
easy to use possibility to have a zoom
feature like you you like you were using
during the show since i'm partially
sighted I'd really need that since orca
doesn't have that feature anymore and
it's reading programs oh and it isn't
reading some programs for me like the
software center and some parts of web
pages or cup being a text-to-speech
reader so um yeah and that's Senate
thanks for your help ok Dennis I mean I
know we already said that we're not
really a news show we're a tech and Q&amp;A
show
and when I say that I mean we usually
take tech questions and answer them with
tech answers but I'm going to give you a
little advice about the ladies if you
start your note with hey there you are
beautiful do not wrap up your note with
I am visually impaired that's what I was
thinking well at least it was for next
week by the way you're beautiful and I
can't see ok so the tool that I use is
of course part of comp is it's called
comp is zoom or enhance to zoom so when
I bring up my desktop and I can do this
kind of fancy stuff what I'm doing is
I'm holding in the super key the the
windows logo key on my keyboard and
using the scroll wheel on on my mouse so
because you're using a boon to the first
thing I would do is see if you have
compositing already running if compiz is
running you can just hold in that
Windows key or super key will call it
because we're we're you know we don't
want call it a Windows key and then
scroll your mouse wheel or on your on
your touchpad you can use the the scroll
just as if you're scrolling up and down
a website that will give you that effect
if you have compositing running which by
default you will in ubuntu if it's
compatible with your system and it's
detected and drivers are installed that
are needed and stuff like that so I
guess I'm the other real option if you
can't if you don't have compositing
which is you know comp is I'm going to
go into terminal here and we'll just
quickly install an application that may
be of use to you it's not going to give
you the same effect as what i'm doing
right there but we'll go sudo apt-get
update first of all one that helps if i
type right there we go enter your
password is going to grab all your
latest repository information okay so
that's just getting the latest lists
from the web of the latest versions of
all the software there we go ok so now
sudo apt-get install and there's a
program called x zoom just like that ok
and the reason I'm doing this in the
terminal now you can do this through
synaptic package manager but you'll
notice over the past couple weeks that
I've really been trying to get you to
try the terminal because I don't want
you to be afraid of it sudo apt-get with
a dash install X's zoom and hit enter
just going to tell me what I need in
this case it's just going to do it
because it just needs the one package if
you need more it might ask you to say
yes or no here we go alright so now its
installed so I'm not sure if it puts it
on the menu let's see I don't see it but
you can hit alt f2 I'm sure it may be
there somewhere but here's what we're
going to do from the terminal or hit alt
f2 i'm going to type in the word x z 00
m or z oo m hit enter and now I've got
this thing you see this okay so if I
click in this area now I can drag this
box and when I drop it now exim is
looking at that area of my screen if i
drag and drop it's looking at that area
see okay so it's a bit of a magnifier
what's cool about x-oom here is now I
can grab the edge just like any other
application and I can I can change the
dimensions of it now i can grab that and
i can go like this and i'm dragging
those that magnifier all over my screen
yeah so that may be helpful as an
alternative if you don't have
compositing again that one's called x
zoom and and it works awfully well and
it has it has the ability to run without
having compositing so if your system
doesn't support what I have with the
windows key and then scroll wheel on
your mouse then you might try axiom okay
I hope that that that helps you out let
us know if that's effective for you or
if you found that air if you found
something else however you solve it let
me know but remember my first tip there
my friend alright so I'm trying to find
it here Chris Reich I think was asking
how you get to that category 5 store
from your website oh it's it's well it
will be
on the website right now it's it's just
in kind of betta top secret stuff but
it's cat 5 TV / shop and and it will
find its way to the website within the
next couple of weeks as we populate it
with with more product so cool speaking
of new things on our website we now not
a new thing but something that was
recently kind of emphasized on our
website just so that people could find
it because one of the questions that was
coming in as well how do we know what's
coming well I get a lot of emails saying
what's going to be on the show this week
or Twitter questions what's going to be
on the show this week and and so last
week I actually add it on watch the show
you'll see our program schedule and this
is simply a calendar and it tells you
exactly what's going on each week and
you can see that for tonight's episode
for example there you are and you can
even see who the co-host is going to be
and that's available to you through our
website category 5 TV on watch the show
program schedule there's also the global
show times which which we brought back
for daylight savings so that people can
find the the times that the show is
going to be broadcast in their area very
cool stuff do you have time for any more
questions I do but first I'll just make
mention that this episode of category 5
TV is brought to you in part by pogoplug
and you'll find them online triple w cat
five TV / pogoplug and also planet
calypso cat five TV / calypso just don't
look at it when your computer's on the
fritz mm-hmm it's not the best time to
show anyone yeah check out this cool
game and he's just stuck and utter
stutter stutter my mouse wasn't working
and I had no I had to just strafe it was
really camera and that's see how she
judges it Oh time for one more question
and i'm going to show you this very cool
dr. power to from thermaltake as well
alrighty so this one's from leland hey
Leland and he says salutations cat man
crew how do i turn off tap to click for
my cordless keyboard using Ubuntu on my
desktop
what's tap to click google it google how
do i turn off tap to click then in
brackets he says tap to click for my
cordless keyboard deemed i just tossing
that with it do you mean how do you turn
off your computer using the keyboard
with just tapping to do it is he in the
chat room you in the chat room that you
can clarify if that's what you mean you
can hit control alt delete and then hit
up or just whatever it takes when you
hit control alt delete and linux to get
this screen if i hit enter right there
it will instantly shut down my machine
so from my cordless keyboard or whatever
keyboard it would do that if that's what
you mean no the touchpad from the from
the little mouse pad take it point to
the to the little menu thing and then
take it and point to the thing that says
shut down and then click it I have no
idea what you're asking do sorry clarify
he says no the touchpad yeah that's what
I mean I don't underst so touch and
point to the shutdown button I don't
know what you mean alrighty sorry dude
maybe it's a feature of that particular
notebook or something that I'm not
familiar with I've never heard of tap to
click maybe that's just a will rule that
one out to geographical differences cool
cloud alright well hey have you ever you
build computers all the time I'm sure
but viewers I know there are many
viewers who build their own systems and
one of the things that you may not
realize have you ever had to have your
power supply change in your computer I
don't know someone else comes and does
it all fiddles with it and it's better
but it's it's actually a common thing
where the power supply would go and you
think you know there's something really
severely wrong with the computer it can
cause you your power supply could still
work but your computer could be failing
blue
meaning if you're on Windows there could
be all kinds of weird issues it could be
crashing for no apparent reason you
could have data loss and regrettably
there's also a chance of with the faulty
power supply you could also have damage
to your system things like burned out
capacitors and things like that that
could really cause issues because if you
get a burned-out capacitor on your
motherboard you've got to replace the
motherboard probably the CPU if it's an
older system definitely the RAM if it's
an older system and then you get into
you might as well just buy a brand-new
computer so it all comes back to the
power supply and when we know if our
power supply is good or bad it can
really help us with not just
preventative issues but it can also help
us to increase the performance of our
computer to know that the power supply
that we're using is is good it's working
well and certainly is not feeding what
we call dirty power to the computer so a
computer is designed to receive very
specific power so you've got 12 volts 5
volts positive negative and it's got to
be really clean power if it's
fluctuating if it's bouncing around if
it's going up and then down and falling
then you wonder why okay well why did my
computer crash will you have you don't
even know that it's because your power
supply just went up to 13 volts and then
drop down to 12 when it's supposed to be
12 static right so a small investment
would be to pick up a power supply
tester there are power supply testers
like this one this is the one that I
used to use as a frozen CPU and it
worked pretty well it was better than
it's better than the kind that just
light up here's the thing you get a
power supply tester that will just light
up if there's power but it doesn't tell
you again is it going up to 13 volts is
it dropping down to 11 you have no idea
so then one upping the frozen CPU model
is this brand new device from
thermaltake this is the doctor power 20
dr. power so now this this probably
needs to be unboxed I know
let's go at nine our unboxing nine our
unboxing you all ready everyone what you
need to know about this is that not only
is this a power supply tester but this
has got all the features it is able to
test over this top line designed to
support every ATX power supply available
today up to 80 x 12 volt version 2.3
oversized LCD panel very nice accurate
voltage indication voltage indication so
it doesn't just tell you if it's on or
off it tells you what the voltage is and
also it's got built in output connectors
for every kind of connector that you can
think of let's take a look don't worry
we are going to demonstrate this device
really really simple stuff it's
available for you dirt cheap through
thermaltake USA com it's surprising how
affordable this is let's unwrap this
maybe Rachel if you could bring up
thermaltake USA com and find this device
with we're going to unwrap all of the
the stickers that they've got on here to
protect it and make it look new when it
arrives so this is going to support now
you can see at the top there I've got
CPU I've got molex and I've got PCI
Express I have serial ata up here and
I've got 24-pin motherboard connector
here so it's got all the connectors but
here's a bonus that this standard one
does not have is this got a little
switch there that allows us to not only
turn it on but also to rotate between
features so I have a power supply just
happen to have a power supply over here
that is known to be broken it's
thermaltake usa.com this power supply
came out of a system and it was actually
running in the computer system so the
computer remember the computer was
actually working but they were wondering
why was it crashing why is it having so
much trouble and then it turns out well
hey there's something up with your power
supply very you know what is a seemingly
innocent component in your computer so
I'm going to take this 24 pin just plug
it in right there I've got a blue screen
which tells me it's dead
I'm just kidding would that be ironic if
it was a blue screen of death ok I've
got molex here which is your component
you know your old style adapter for four
drives and things like that components
I've got let's see let's see what else I
can pull off of this I've got a PCI
Express okay there we go alright so on
my screen here as soon as I hit power
now the it's important to note that the
power supply is currently off there is
no movement on this power supply at all
as soon as I hit the power button now
the power supply has turned on and
you'll see the screen is immediately
turned red and things are starting to
beep I've got to failure on my 5 volt as
well as a failure on my 12 volt
everything else looks ok PG value that's
power good is is fine so a power because
power good is ok your computer still
going to boot up but you've got bad 12
volt and bad 5 volt that could cause a
lot of damage to your computer if i push
this button the game just so that you
have a little understanding about what
how this device works so right now I'm
looking at as you see on the left hand
side here we're looking at the 24-pin
now it's turned off for safety sake
because it knows that this is a bad
power supply I'm going to turn it back
on I've got my 24 pin is the first one
is going to test now I'm going to switch
over to I pushed that button again and
it switches to pci express again it has
failed the 12 volt is bad push that
button again switches over to my molex
adapter in a game five volt and 12 volt
are both bad so now I know that you know
what this power supply is going straight
to e-waste it's not safe for me to put
this in my computer whatsoever and you
don't want to you don't want to take
that risk kill the power and to check
all I checked all the devices you found
it there if you go to on thermaltake USA
com
this is just something that you want to
have in your in your kit bag absolutely
because you never know when you're going
to need it you never know when you're
going to have weird problems that you
want to determine if it is the power
supply and as I'm saying this thing is
an affordable piece of kit so go to
thermaltake USA com let's let's find it
on their website together power supply
I'm sure power supply tester there it is
dr. power to the price is surprising at
US dollars only 40 bucks and as far as
you know I've been in the industry for
many many years and this is this has got
to be the most feature-packed power
supply tester as i said i am deprecating
my frozen cpu power supply tester
because of this which i paid more for
incidentally but this is going to help
you to avoid damage to your computer by
even at plugging in the power supply you
buy a new power supply for your computer
plug it into this first make sure that
it's good I've had it happen where a
brand new power supply out of the box
was giving a bat voltage on one of the
channels so and this warns me about that
so definitely check that out thermaltake
usa.com it's called the doctor power to
and it's available for forty dollars us
cool thermaltake SAT products are
fantastic they build power supplies this
is not a thermaltake power supply
obviously we run all thermaltake power
supplies here and there there they've
been incredibly reliable yeah but you
can find them everywhere because they
are a very well-known company they make
some great gear so check it out cool hey
chat room this is category 5 technology
TV category five dot TV hey John garbe
and he greets to new viewers in the chat
room tonight don't forget we're giving
away that brother mfc printer
multifunction center visit my blog gar
be a good guy is asking in the chat room
if I can tell you the model number well
visit my blog cat five dot TV / blog and
when you're there you're going to see
that I've got all the information there
for you to qualify to win that cool
that's my little trick I could give it
to you but go to the blog and then
you'll have gone to my blog it's
important to me yeah nobody knew joining
us in the chat room nitro fish is saying
well I'm not new this week but I was new
last week welcome to the show so nice to
have you here where you from Nitro fish
Lewin no problem nice to have you here
slowin is also joining us that fairly
new here in the chat room nitro fish
joins us from Iowa we have viewers all
over the world it's so interesting to
see the viewership have you got any more
postcards no more postcards
unfortunately which we covet so send us
a postcard our address is on our website
category 5 TV I want to see one from
Timbuktu Timbuktu yeah that's a real
place that's what I want to know you
always hear in the movies all go off to
Timbuktu but I don't know if it's real
so someone from Timbuktu send a postcard
that makes sense that makes sense what
you got for me
there you go that's kind of weird no
well click it this one yeah I right
there we go slow and is going to send us
a postcard from Barrie Ontario that
would be cool alrighty so you're joining
us from berry nice to have you here
spread the word build up our local
viewership it'd be very cool we're of
course broadcasting from Barrie Ontario
Canada we had snow earlier this week Oh
razy stuff all you in the warm places
you're lucky well I post some pictures
on Twitter on a regular basis and this
seriously was taken from my ipod touch
just this week yeah unreal sorry yeah
but not too III wanted to mention about
viewer to a viewership this is how it
looks right now I posted this on on
twitpic because I just cannot believe
that I cannot see anything for Germany
Netherlands I we've got Ireland and the
UK and all these areas are just so
plastered in viewers right now like
these these are lie it's not what
viewers or at that who've ever watched
in the history of your show know if that
was the case then it would it would no
that's that is it's a roll off so as new
viewers come on it knocks off the other
ones right there's a limit as to how
many can be there and that is that
represents basically the week's
viewership so but that is that's just UK
Germany that area of the North Sea
you're gonna have to learn something
have you all here speak German yeah I
need to show there's so many languages
that are represented and that's that's
interesting as well because we are
predominantly English a little bit of
Klingon but predominantly English bit
doma Caen domic in as well oh that hurt
alright so let's see Rob wants me to
read some viewer testimonials so dear
Robbie and the crew I have been around
since season one Robbie although I
haven't been there for every show you
have not only are you consistent but you
have also consistently improved the
standard of the show in appearance and
content you seem to have a knack for
picking co-host or crew members who are
good at their job obviously this was
sent before my news tonight you have
overcome adversity time and again that
my friend is impressive I grew up with a
significant physical disability so I
know how tempting it can be to quit
rather than persevere you have taken the
high road and that deserves some
recognition you have literally brought
category 5 TV into your home and made it
a part of your family or maybe it's the
other way around but either way that is
quite a commitment on your part as well
as your family and thank you and as you
can see over here what did I do his head
you're like come on read all this good
stuff about homes I seriously hurt my
voice doing that how did that happen
okay so for the crew so nice little
thank you simply said you folks are
great in my opinion your contribution
and importance to category 5 TV cannot
be overstated like Robbie are committed
and consistent in your efforts your
professionalism comes through clearly ah
thank you for your commitment and
contribution to the enjoyment of
category 5 TV you all make it look easy
and fun when I know it cannot always be
either your casual charm is contagious
and fun to watch I look forward to
watching every episode either live truly
the best way to watch or through my row
it's more than learning linux but that
has been a big part of it for me it's
also being part of the community and
feeling a shared interest in what you
were doing you have my respect and
admiration keep up the great work ryan
AKA drumstick that's that's very kind
Ryan thank you so much I'm sorry that I
hurt my voice just before
that's crazy do you want water like I I
like like this but I did hear what time
will Rachel was reading there that's
very very kind and I appreciate it and
very cool to have you here all the way
from season one as we're in season five
now so very cool stuff but that's that's
all the time we have for tonight well
it's convenient right when you lost your
voice yes perfect timing it's starting
to come back to me now that's hilarious
that'll make the blooper reel hey lady
yes Chris Reich I am with you sir and I
will sign off on that note hey it's been
nice having you here once again yeah
it's been nice being here yeah have fun
mm-hmm they keep us good company in the
chat room yeah nice to nice to see
everybody nice to have you joining us
tonight and I look forward to having you
here next week don't forget visit our
website category 5 TV go to my blog and
find out how you can qualify and
possibly win that brother multifunction
center that we were looking out there
with mark so check it out category five
dot TV thanks again for being here this
week talk to you next Tuesday see ya
Bobby
