so we're driving to David uncle's for
New Year's dinner and I'm scared about
how like the connection might go so I
joined early just in case I get cut off
early
well I joined early because this is the
first time I've ever been on Google Bank
I had to download it myself
Oh perfect
and I think we beat everybody else there
except I I see Japheth in but I can't
hear him no I didn't either
oh here comes Robbie I think how would
your Christmas very nice I I don't know
Robbie ever said anything I had neck
surgery early December so I had I had I
was a tremendous amount of pain from
Labor Day to the beginning of December
down my arm and I'm feeling wonderful so
Christmas for me was spectacular
oh good awesome the year that you've
recovered I didn't I didn't have a clue
of surgery but but it's nice to see you
you look like you have good range of
motion and everything so it went really
well then oh it did it did it went
spectacularly well so I'm good I can
move around I'm not supposed to move too
much yet I go back in a couple of weeks
so you can tell me when I can go back to
work
well hopefully you get at least until
the spring because it's so really cold
right now
this is cold my coworkers are probably
calling me every name in the book you
picked a good time I'm like I choose
this how are the roads be brutal yeah
why should I even take the highway right
now maybe slowly yeah probably the
highways gonna need to clear it yeah
they usually do the highways down here
first this Turkey better be worth it
definitely will be I J I got an insta
pot one of those electric pressure
cookers nice for myself for Christmas so
I've been cooking up a storm at home so
now I have tons of leftovers in the
fridge so we're gonna go gonna go eat
more soon and you're gonna take home
leftovers right of course there's a way
I can put this on somewhere my arm I
know the trick I don't want it down here
you can feel a double chin action it's
not 1 o'clock yeah we're real or else we
are very early yes you see other people
flashing on the bottom of my screen here
but I don't see names
okay gotta get up and move around a
little bit mmm
here we go drive these somebody on
though something bad happened really but
at least now you're witness to the fact
that I was part of the hangouts because
I do know that where we're going which
is like a 40-minute drive I never have
service by the time we get there so are
you driving yours we're driving south
southwest stuff down in the northbound
Highway yeah yeah cuz cuz Robbie always
says he goes away he goes north and I
just like north of where you are come on
my goodness
[Laughter]
there is a little bit of that to New
York yeah I live I live 80 miles north
of New York City and that's north enough
for me thank you okay so is that close
to the border then oh no no no I don't
know I don't know geography at all we're
about to New York are you yeah Betty
miles world of the city which of New
York City which is the southernmost tip
of New York you can't get further south
in New York State
okay cool what's it called New Paltz
it's a little college town okay very is
that it's big now it's a city now yeah
yeah
nice holy look at the highway hold on oh
my god oh look at this it's crawling
okay so we'll be on the call for a long
time I dig this David Rohde maybe we'll
take the next exit then going down maybe
a it might not be too bad
let's I'm doing 40 shut up Greg in a
hundred zone what a day it is second
gear on 100 kilometer high way wow this
is really crazy and we are
[Music]
well that's what you should have slaw
yeah well yeah everything everybody's
driving slow widgets for the bastards
pretty white out oh yeah Oh Robbie
sunshine face oh yeah so he's not live
yet either
nobody else is live but I oh my god
totally different Street hunters wish I
had of something to drink like a hot
chocolate aliens put your around oh my
goodness
7:15 K and a hundred zone we'll get a
speeding ticket could explain why we saw
the helicopter how longs it take to cook
turkey kill now solo it yeah hey is
Robbie I see him Oh see there we go come
on Robbie doing doing like it now track
maybe
ten minutes we have cool in-car audio
I'm in recliner
yes exactly Oh put it in in context
usually to get to this point it takes
about three minutes from from getting on
the highway yeah you'll be fine yeah
Lowen turpis just this section or is
this gonna keep on going right into this
Florida State market it's actually best
to call I'm even giving me a headache
I hate not speeding usually has a
motorcycle well not in this weather
yeah worry buddy we tend to take the
highway because you get less interaction
with intersections and people pulling
out of places unexpectedly at least on
the high or you just straight yeah you
have a lot of holes they're really the
only part of New York I've ever been to
with a lot of tools New York takes your
money any way they can we have the the
EZ Pass tags so that you can drive right
through the tolls you know instead of
stopping money over and with the couple
of visits to the hospital because I go
to that I had the surgery in New York
City they refill my easy past four times
because of the tolls are so
it's crazy
now are there non tool options there are
and it will take you about ten times
longer to get there god yeah oh yeah
it's they're all you know state roads
with you got to drive through little
towns and slow down you know we take the
interstates if you ever been in New York
you know you have the Thruway out there
that ends up in Buffalo that comes all
but New York City is just it's crazy
it cost fifteen bucks just to get into
New York City over oh my god yeah Wow
I had a guy when I did training up in
Rochester New York a few years ago a guy
drove from Florida he says I can't
believe I can drive from Florida all the
way up to Washington DC with no tools
and then once I get Washington DC I get
into up to New York I pay like 50 or $60
in tolls Robbie keeps getting up and
walking away can he hear us I wonder the
judging from your reaction I guess you
guys don't have a lot of goals we have
one whole route and I don't think I've
used it even more than three times in my
whole life because are you hear nothing
but nightmares because you have to have
a transponder
it'll bill your your I guess based on
your license plate it takes a picture of
your license plate so you don't drive
through a goose at all but because of
that there's been problems with people
being double bills or you know I'm miss
reading the camera
it seems a little bit too primitive yet
with that they're starting that now here
and it's like keep moving you know if
you don't have the if you have the EZ
Pass it will deduct it from your account
if you don't and they will mail you a
bill I was like really
snail mail you're gonna mail me a bill
for a bridge yeah and there were people
to take that bridge you know they go to
work they take it five times a week how
often do you bill get the tag it's
easier yeah I'm happy Anatole haven't
been too much a thing here I just took
the train for the first time to Toronto
and they have a thing called a presto
pass or you can use a card and fill it
up sort of I guess like the same ideas
or anything hot and and if you take the
train a certain number of times you get
a discount on your actual trip itself
right right I did I've taken it one we
had those cards for the new york city
buses and subways a little max trip card
like a credit card you zip it right
through yeah
yeah very handy so soon there'll be no
cash for anything anymore no it'll be
all all cards yep
Bitcoin Bitcoin which we don't own any
of your too many horror stories about
that stuff it doesn't make it I tried to
watch the documentary on it and it
didn't make sense to me even when they
were explaining it slowly in the
documentary so yeah I feel like we'll
never be I'll never be a Bitcoin owner
yeah and it seems to be treated like a
commodity on the exchanges as I wait a
minute.what
thanks yeah I don't I don't get it
with all of these I'll let my daughter
I'm too old I'm gonna die with money
forget forget the computer so I spoke to
you soon the highway sped up and then it
slowed right back down into the Herbie
you look like you're moving okay we're
doing 31 kilometers
yeah usually this highway runs at about
110 kilometers an hour yeah moving is
good see in New York City usually stop
and then move ten feet then stop that's
that's frustrating constant moving even
if it's slow is still constant moving
and it's a standard so it makes it
easier if there's constant movement yep
Oh Robbie just went got his coffee so he
said still not talking to us though I
think he's grabbing his headset yeah
here we go
101 everybody else is late now
such a process because hey guys hey
we've been talking about you can you
hear me now as you can see Sasha and
Dave are on the road yeah it looks like
right safe oh my goodness
welcome to Canada just getting to the
studio a little bit it's not too bad of
a drive but even so my wife was like are
you sure you want to do this for bill
absolutely thank you hey Bill how you
doing I'm doing well you I am doing I
think your your clocks are a little
faster than mine mine says two minutes -
so are we late I got two minutes - one
okay so it'sit's sashes clock oh there
you go oh I would I'm punctual come on I
wasn't sure if I'd be able to actually
log on ice hey Dave hey how's it going
good you keeping her safe on the road
they're paying attention yeah yeah
terrible yeah how far out of town of you
guys we're not even out of town yet oh
really
on your way out yeah we're just passing
SRAM right now 15 minutes to make it
from Bayfield on-ramp they're not even
Boston
we're heading to Lefroy okay and not
that far but I will lose connection at
some point because before I doesn't have
any oh yes how cool is it though okay so
we can start now it's it's time for our
google hangout but how cool is it that
you can be on the road and doing this oh
here let me turn around turn this around
oh well yeah here let me switch that
actually looks bad
no it's moving yep yeah I'm still
learning how Google Hangouts works so as
soon as I manually switch a camera I
lose all control let's see if that works
there I like that
how cool is it that we can do something
like this in a like a small studio like
we have if technology and you're on the
road and here we can have a hangout with
some of our viewers and it it blows my
mind to like I was watching the the
countdown last night and they had people
cutting in from various points in Canada
and their technology seemed like there
was like a 20 second delay and you know
it wasn't that great meanwhile you're
driving in real time I love it but we
just finished watching this this
season's black mirrors so I love
technology but at the same time and now
I'm very afraid I'm not sure how far
into black near we are it was like I
don't know I think we're like season
what are they in now season four yeah so
we're probably like middle of season
three okay lounge it it's really
important to know you do not have to
watch them in order and I'd really love
it if everybody could just watch episode
1 of season 4 before the next show
ok before the next yeah spectacular
it's called USS Callister did the
episode mean we'll have to check it out
it always leaves me thinking okay and
that's why I can't be in a show like
black mirror because it leaves you at
the end of it you're like okay now I
need to ponder this for three days
almost first encounter was last year I
had not completely shared it with him
and now we're watching that's cool well
hey everybody
so I wasn't sure what what kind of
turnout we'd have today because this is
our first patron exclusive hangout and
category fives first hangout in as many
years I think the last one we did was
February of 2015 we believe it's been
that long but so bill it's nice to have
you here looks like you're our first and
only patron to join today so I hope you
came prepared with loads of questions
and comments and everything else this
will be posted for public viewing after
but of course you have to be a
qualifying patron in order to
participate in the actual interaction
with us so so hey Bill
i I see Jeff is connected but doesn't
have a camera or microphone so that's
kind of counterintuitive obviously on
the road and she's who yamaguchi is here
with us hey Cesar she's of course you
probably remember her she was on the
show fairly recently just back in the
summer I'm talking about organization
and you know you know more about it my
wife knows more about it because she got
a hold of the book and my sock drawer is
completely
now but she's who now has taken on the
role bill you know on the newsroom setup
we have the kind of the side graphics
and everything like that right so while
sash is speaking about a particular
story there's a nice graphic up there I
used to have to come in and you know I'd
find the images on Google Images or
wherever the source from the story and
try to put something together but it was
just one more thing for me to do and
then she's who took that on so that's
one thing off of my plate and she's been
doing a fantastic job she's doing a way
better job than I could ever do and so
that's been a real bonus for the show so
nice easy I can barely hear you
you guys Here I am from New Paltz New
York about 80 miles north of New York
City and as I was saying to Sascha
earlier
that's far enough in order for me thank
you very much
month and a half now I downloaded all
the episodes I recently had surgery at
the beginning of December so I had a lot
of time on my hands so I started
watching from episode one it's come a
long way I'm in season I believe eight
now
oh good time I'm there I've been jumping
around the new ones cuz you know because
they saw the whole dare I say it by
killer thing say again is that how you
started watching with just my killer
definitely one of the first but I'm
actually going into my basement now so I
can show you my pine killer see if I can
do this now now I wish that we were in
an arthouse I'd show everybody the
computer in glory yeah I got it I gotta
watch the episodes with the bill
alright I got lights on
I'm gonna see this Bell I'm just gonna
I'm gonna turn up my speakers because
I'm having trouble hearing you guys I'll
be right back okay this is my this is my
shelf unit down in my basement and so
here's the if I can get right up there's
there's the PI killer they owed ROI
system and that guy is replacing this
guy that that monster
so I've already called the oh my Oh
droid name - David so it's gonna kill
this Goliath of a machine right now
because I also did get the that little
unit where you plug into your
electricity usage and this beast uses
about $50 of electricity a month Wow
yeah so this this is going to be the Leo
droid unit I've become mine ass and it's
gonna pay for itself in about five
months
incredible yeah yeah I mean I don't I
don't really want to totally
decommission that giant because I mean
it's got two Xeon processors it's got 32
gigs of ram it's got a 500 gig hard
drive with the OS on it for one terabyte
drives in raid fives I'm reluctant to
just dump it so but having it on 24/7 is
just painful yeah so bill yeah you
you're what we're looking at is
something that you've seen on the show
plus you picked up the tester to be able
to to find out how much power it was
already found have you found the show as
far as showing you I guess relevant
technology obviously this is influenced
your purchasing decisions so yeah really
nice because you know it's funny I I
handle the financials in the house and I
noticed the spike in the electric bill
oh yeah I couldn't figure it out and I
saw that and I said alright let's let's
do this so I shut the I shut this guy
down
shut this this down this Dell and
plugged in that unit and left it running
and did the calculations and I said ah
that's where it is it's that guy isn't
that unreal to think that your
refrigerator is taking less energy but
possibly than that little computer for
now it doesn't help because you see
there's there's the oh joy is sitting on
top of another PC and then there's an up
PC excellent and yet another server
excellent this is this is just the
basement this is Wow this doesn't
include my Mac Mini and my my Red Hat
box upstairs and then there's oh yeah I
work laptop and my home laptop and my
wife's works laptop at home laptop and
now that my daughter's home from college
her Mac all the little gadgets like I'm
holding my iPad or five iPods and
Android phones
mm-hmm so what do you use in the servers
and the Odroid for the Odroid is gonna
be my ass it's gonna be my file server I
got I got 2 4 terabyte and drives in
hand nice and I'm upper grade one here
one thing I did notice it's funny though
the see if I can get this for me yeah I
probably can't see it when I opened it
up I looked at the pieces and tried to
match it up to the pieces that Edward
there are two different cloud shell -
Kate I don't know if it's ones for the Q
and ones for the 9 X 4 X u4q there's the
xu4 and the X you feel Q yeah I'm not
sure if they're different cuz if you go
on the hard colonel website they both
lists as for the X you for slightly
different I wonder I wonder if they've
actually just kind of changed because I
saw your post on on YouTube I believe it
was mentioning that the design was a
little bit different so I wonder like
any company they've they've improved it
a little bit or change something about
it
is the only difference with the Q versus
the non Q model of the XE for was just
the fan the fan wrestles they think
right right either one well we can now
yeah now I mean I got fight it's not
very difficult to figure out because
you're only talking about two different
pieces like you have the two little
hanger pieces that ya know used to
attach to the port there is no hanging
there are no hanger pieces it actually
hangs from the top cover now
oh and you had a like those of those hex
shaped standoffs or about an inch long
these are only about 3/8 of new song
okay now that the only thing is as I'm
looking between the because I am using
spinning hard drive there's only about a
quarter of an inch of space between the
upper spinning hard drive and the the
top of the passive heatsink so it's
they're real close to each other so oh
yeah I'm probably going to need to
remove the speed limiter on the fan I'm
probably good oh yeah you find the fan
is coming on because mine of course I
switched to a cess DS so the fan just
never even fires up but I did find it
was running quite a bit warmer when it
had the spinning hard drives in it
yeah okay surgery so I'm doing little
bits at a time yeah and how you've been
doing it it's been good real real good I
just got to get a good hose I don't have
to wear the dog collar anymore oh yeah
but I do have to keep my motion limited
and I'm not supposed to he said he would
have made me keep the collar on if I was
a tennis coach so oh yeah no back and
forth
no no nodding no shaking my head yeah
just take it easy take it easy
yeah binge watch lots of category-five
been doing that that's for sure
your fans your favorite fans you must
our biggest fans on YouTube biggest fans
on YouTube you begin the kick out of
that one I love it
so good there's somebody that's gonna
reply or yeah yeah I was I was tempted I
was curious whether we should tag the
people that were featuring I wasn't sure
if you know I wasn't sure what the
reaction would be because it is very
very tongue-in-cheek where am I making
fun of but at the same time we're
turning it into a tutorial so that you
can see yeah you know what the Odroid is
actually a little bit smaller than the
Raspberry Pi taking the creative spin on
that but so I'm glad that the response
has been good I think that you could
probably say the same and we weren't
really sure no no we weren't sure but it
has been going amazing well I love it
and I'm really hoping that the people we
actually do mention that they that they
eventually catch themselves like I feel
like right now some of them are just
drawn to that one particular episode but
as they watch I feel like they'll
finally start seeing you know I've been
in college well did the good thing is is
they're commenting on the on the
technology piece you see that it's that
seven minute video on putting the case
together which you don't do anything
you're standing off to the side they
need to watch the entire episode the
whole hour
to see how you get the next you get the
next 20 to 30 minutes to do I know I'm
very lucky and you know what well well
most of the tech stuff is going on a lot
of times I'm in the chat room you know
back and forth with the viewers then so
I get a lot of interaction right on the
spot which is fun yeah yeah we've we've
chatted a couple of times yeah well do
you have any like you know this is an
opportunity for you as you're
interacting with us to ask any questions
or any questions that have arisen as
you've been watching the show about the
technology or anything like that I know
the only questions I had were about the
nems
which unfortunately okay I think what
I'm what I'm gonna do is I'm just gonna
sign off now just because I know we're
coming into the tricky part and instead
of just wondering whether or not I'm
actually live I'm gonna go now such a
great time we have to do this far more
frequently absolutely all right all
right
Happy New Year and thanks for thanks for
joining us from the road that's really
cool guys so what are you showing us
here Dave this looks like a pie cluster
of some sort that's Mike that's my pie
cluster very nice eight Raspberry Pi 3
sitting on top of a managed switch yeah
where I run I was testing out some
parallel processing programs just
playing around
yeah hey that's fun that's fun what are
you using the cluster is
what did I end up with hey hi
for MPI for it's something oh yeah I
can't remember now
okay I remember now that's something
that that's something that I haven't
tried yet is clustering my pies and part
of that is because jumping straight to a
node Odroid you know there's so much
more power in there so right so it
almost seems like it's a fun project but
maybe not necessary at this point but
yeah there were some questions when I
mentioned in the chat room there were
some questions why would you do that and
I was like because I can because I've
got a dozen pies and I want to put them
up together make them into one super pie
that's it I got eight down here I got
three upstairs I got a couple of pie
zeros just sitting around I did give a
bunch of them away you know my daughter
in college she's had friends that were
mentioning it and I said here just I'm
giving him know what how much do you
want for my said I don't want anything
formed is the one proviso is is when
you're done with him you hand them off
to somebody else yeah that's cool
that was the idea of the Raspberry Pi to
get you know get kids involved with
coding for next to nothing you know it's
that's it's the whole point and and I
think that was what God everybody wound
up when you called the Odroid the PI
killer because there is so much so many
people behind the Raspberry Pi it's it's
yes ridiculous it's ridiculous what do
you think Oh bill I mean between you and
me not not like anyone else is ever
going to see this but between you and me
it's done very well for us I know right
like people don't realize as they
comment and they you know condemn me for
calling it a Raspberry Pi killer that
we've had half a million views on that
video well I had part about it is it's
there they are in short supply the Oh
droids because they're on backorder
again are they now okay yeah yeah they
went currently on
again if you go to Amazon if you use
your link it says currently on a bet
well they come from South Korea they're
making them in badges right you can
order them directly from hard colonel i
think that's probably the best way to do
it but of course doing it that way they
don't have a partner program or anything
like that for us so there's no kickback
but at the same time you know we'll work
on expanding you you know like it's
really tough for us to give links to
products because they're all always
changing right so I set up the shop
category 5 TV is an effort to give you
more options when you click on products
but it's hard to maintain it's hard to
keep up with you know we've mentioned a
thousand products in the past year and
then you know half of the links stopped
working it's pretty tough yeah yeah well
but even on hard colonel if you go to
the site you scroll down to the xu4
it'll say ships in 21 days so they're
even really you don't even have them you
know Wow yeah actually sure yeah I was
just curious about how he got into
building all of these computer techie
type things like what was your lead like
lead into it I have always been into
electronics I when I went to high school
and went to a specialized High School in
Brooklyn New York and and I took the
electrical course which was a basic
intro into electronics then I went to an
electronics college and I started
working at Xerox back in 83 and I just
it just kept growing and growing and
growing and then we got into the
computers and stuff and now I am a
system analyst at Xerox so but and it's
not the analyst type job that most
people think it's I help with the
presale and the implementation and post
sale problem resolution of Xerox
equipment so we put them in site in
customer sites connect them up to their
networks connect up third-party
solutions for scanning printing
copying is just we don't call them
copiers anymore that's there's so few
copies made nowadays it's all on the
scanning so I need to keep abreast of
everything so I know I have to know
Windows Mac Linux UNIX because some of
our some of our solutions are based on
UNIX
now that Solaris is gone son has dropped
Solaris I think we're gonna start moving
over to Windows but I still need to know
all the stuff so anything I can learn
just keeps me ahead of the curve yeah my
job wow that's really me because I think
there is that connection I met a guy who
was I had like started tinkering with
computers when he was a kid now he the
field of IT and it's just it's just
something that there's like this
connection from when you're young right
start with something about a party come
back together and then you understand
something fundamental about something
and then it kind of builds upon there
and feel so exactly yeah I was I was
always a tinkerer when I was a kid used
to drive my parents crazy because they'd
come home and see something and pieces
on the dining room table
oh that was me bill yeah but I always
got back together what did you do to the
VCR place all the tapes everything's
backwards
oh boy I was tearing things apart what a
world though now when you've got things
like raspberry PI's and OH droids and
everything Allison
like it's so far changed from when we
were kids like my son who's 10 years old
we just got him the old-style
electronic science kit you know the one
with the little Springs and you run the
cables I know right so this is a
throwback for me but it's also an
opportunity for me to instill in my son
some of the knowledge that I wish that I
had when I was a kid right growing up
and now I'm just now starting to
understand things like capacitors and
relays and all this kind of stuff so for
him to have that knowledge at 10 years
old and into his later teen years then I
think that's a good opportunity for him
to
be ready for being a builder and a maker
because these guys
classic but they're great for teaching
the basics of you know how conductors
work and how how you can create circuits
and things like that but these days I
think I find that kids are taught in
school and we're starting to see this
migration over to you know they're doing
hands-on stuff but for so many years
it's been learning the software learning
how to use Microsoft Excel but not
understanding well how do you work it if
the icon is gone right exactly how does
the computer itself work so yeah my only
exposure to circuits and that kind of
thing was in a physics class in high
school and we were given I don't blame
the teacher for this is a great teacher
but we were given a sheet and we had to
like figure out how all the circuits
were going to work and it took literally
like five hours for everyone and it was
hard work and it was but it was not fun
having some hands on would have been a
lot more interesting and having that
reward for having it work you know when
it did work would've been amazing yeah
I'm hoping that's what we're gonna see
with my son with this kit is that
there's a there's a payoff yeah you know
you're you're manufacturing a metal
detector or whatever else yeah yeah you
know another thing to do Robbie I don't
know if you thought of this oh he's
playing with his computer take away his
mouse and soon okay you you need to
learn keyboard shortcuts interesting
yeah yes there's a billion keyboard
shortcuts in in every operating system
and people forget that and it's like
they get so reliant on the mouse it's
like take it away that's a great fight
built on my Christmas list this year and
I'm just gonna reach over because I've
got it here I brought it with me to the
studio because it's gonna operate the
teleprompter but this is one of the
things that my wife got me and it's a
Bluetooth keyboard but I specifically
said I don't want a touchpad right for
that very reason I do not like using a
mouse when I'm setting up systems and
you know I'm in the terminal and that's
that's a really cool point yeah
I should get a new Bluetooth keyboard
because I don't use the touchpad it has
it but I don't like using it and my palm
ends up hitting it oh yeah I really like
this little hey I just learned less as a
party at my place that New Year's party
and you were just talking about keyboard
shortcuts and the literary press shift
apparently seven times I can hold it
down too long it locks a keyboard into
symbols loud mm-hmm okay I did not I
have never in my like 20 years of using
computers ever like come upon this ever
press the shift key for too long I've
just never done that I guess I've never
held it for longer than you know 10
seconds or number of times by accident
so a lot of people nuts is when your
keyboard automatically this happens in
Windows automatically switches languages
I get phone calls from people to say I'm
trying to put in my password and this
putting in all these crazy characters
and I'm like have you typed any words
like resume lately switch their keyboard
to French mode and now everything's in
the wrong place and you were trying to
get the the pipe yes on the Raspberry Pi
yeah I think that we're doing like a
retro pie setup or maybe Plex
yeah yeah it's it's because the pie
comes down to faulted to Great Britain
mm-hmm yeah and they they've got all
those special characters on the top row
are all different I'll tell you what
Bill it was pretty quick that all of our
biggest fans on YouTube let me know
about that that's what we're finding so
we keep a smile on our faces and
approach it with a bit of
tongue-in-cheek
that's it well I'm looking forward to
everything that's gonna happen in 2018
lots of stuff happening hey like we've
got the four
okay camera run I'm on a 4k tonight
today right here this is just the
Panasonic but it actually has the I can
talk about it now because she's gone
it's got the teleprompter it's got the
teleprompter on it and I tried it for
the first time the other day and it I
have a new respect for for Sasha it's
tough to run a teleprompter and read it
from the screen but it's kind of cool
when you showed it to me that's why I
made the comment because I know it's my
eyesight I would never be able to do
that no yeah are you able to do that and
I see she wears glasses too yeah good
for her so it's out its out of the box
but that's what we have on the camera
now yeah nice so but then I've got this
camera here this is the the HM 170 which
is slowly growing but the lens ring
adapter didn't fit so I had to order a
like just an eight dollar lens adapter
to extend it out a little bit so that
the the teleprompter will fit on this
one because this one we're reviewing in
two weeks so that's kind of quite mm-hmm
so lots lots you know the show should
look a lot better in the next couple of
weeks and I'm starting to move around
the set because we've lost the
green-screen here people complain when
we're standing up that the you know the
logo is down there right not realizing
that this is actually meant to be a sit
down set with interview seats and stuff
like that we've used it a few times but
then when we got this desk I had to move
everything here but then I never kind of
finalized it so it was always kind of a
temporary solution but ended up being a
little more permanent than I am then I
didn't intended so but the the
green-screen doesn't work on the 4k
because our server the computer that I
use for Wirecast is too slow for that
because it's you know that's a lot of
stuff to do live chroma key with a 4k
camera but it worked fine on the 1080p
so what I'm thinking about doing is
putting the green screen back to where
it used to be on the other side of the
room so that we've got a nice green
screen news room like we used to have
and then switching everything back to
the brick set
and then rebuilding this into an
interview set so so we should have a
pretty nice setup within the next
handful of weeks anyway so I'll be a lot
of work you really if you really want to
wind up your your your biggest fans
bring them back to episode one yeah with
the webcam it was 140 P now with 4k
we're like which 4k camera do we like
durable cam that was classic we have a
webcam on a gerbil cage I like that
going for a 4k run has a double meaning
there we're doing a 4k run this
afternoon right so you're also going for
a you're going for a run this afternoon
no no I just saying when you said that
you're doing a 4k run I was like I was
like no I'm not doing anything in the
snow it's like you travel even just
walking for the vehicle yeah great
message no Robbie does not do 4k runs in
the snow bill doesn't do 4k runs in the
summer well she's ooh Jeff well Jeff is
sorta here I think he's watching but
unable to actually communicate back with
us I see he posted a couple things in
the chat there said he's here says he
can see in here bill and said hi to
Sasha Jeff was in are you guys watching
the chat says he was in New York in
November he bypassed all the toll
stations his car is very fast yes Sasha
was asking about tolls down in New York
and they were just brutal yeah I think
they take our money any way they can
no I got you so he was he was listening
in a nice cute yep yeah he's there he's
there yes I don't see and this is my
first time ever using
google hangouts so if I start clicking I
might lose you so I'll take your word
that he's in the chat area this is cool
and we're gonna do this my plan as you
know is to do the this monthly so
hopefully we'll have a good turnout you
know moving forward of course bill
you're our only patron that is here
that's exclusively a patron but you know
we'll probably see this grow as more
people catch on and our patreon page has
been growing over the past little while
I hope that you've liked the changes
that I've made there it's been a lot of
us yeah so trying to try to make it more
interactive more exciting things like
the Google Plus the Google hangout that
kind of stuff mm-hmm
so hopefully we'll see you grow yeah I'm
reading Jeff says my camera on my
monitor is no longer functioning and I
don't have a mic hooked up to the
monitor there you go so he's here he's
here in spirit
thanks for being here Jeff she's always
a pleasure to see you we could do this
even as part of the show sometimes like
you know use this as an opportunity for
viewers to communicate with us and ask
questions or something like that that
might be fun yeah looks like it works
pretty good bill thank you for being
here
you broke the ice for our patrons on
Google Hangouts so thank you no problem
yeah we didn't have a great day happy
happy new year again and here's to a
wonderful year for all of us with
category-five and and personally as well
and all the best to to everyone yeah
Happy New Year guys thank you for having
me
see y'all take care
