here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom if
you're one of the victims of the
recently revealed hack of Facebook you
should be extra careful on the internet
and extra watchful of your other online
and offline accounts someone has
reportedly siphoned personal information
on 30,000 or more US Department of
Defense workers the UK government wants
to secure smart home gadgets and someone
used a deep learning AI to perfectly
insert Harrison Ford into solo a Star
Wars story these stories are coming
right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories with enslave Linux by us Jeff
Weston Gemma you're building a brand-new
beautiful website
aren't you alright you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
are you building a really cool website
just because Jeff is confused doesn't
mean you have to be visit cap five dot
TV slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host I'm
sorry Rick minute and here are the top
stories for following this week if
recently revealed a hack of Facebook you
an extra watchful of your other online
and offline accounts the data hackers
gleaned from the social network could be
used for identity theft and to access
accounts ranging from those at banks and
other financial institutions to online
stores it could also be used in
so-called spear phishing attacks in
which hackers use the information they
know about particular users to send them
personalized messages that convinced
them to leak their passwords or other
critical data some 30 million accounts
were compromised in the attack which
Facebook first announced three weeks ago
the hackers were able to gain access to
names and phone numbers of nearly all of
those users as well as personal details
such as birth dates relationship status
gender and education and work histories
for 14 million of them this data can
potentially be used to hijack accounts
on other services besides Facebook as
well the password reset feature on many
sites asks users to answer certain
security questions those questions often
ask for just the kind of personal
details that were revealed in the
Facebook hack but it's not just online
accounts that are at risk information
such as names and birth dates can also
be used to gain access to banking
accounts or medical records over the
phone you can find out whether you were
affected by the Facebook attack by
logging into your
count and by going to a security page
the company has set up we've created a
hot link for you at cat five TV slash FB
hack okay wow I didn't even think of the
fact that this information could be used
for for gaining access to other sites
right this leads me to like an
incredible real-life story as far as I
had myself locked out of my bank account
because I have a really incredibly long
password that I oh yeah you mentioned
this right so I I just walked myself out
with too many attempts because I was
trying to actually manually type in
which I should never do I should use my
actual password manager all of the time
and when I called in to the bank and I
said one when I called them I was like I
just need to prove to you who I am ask
me a series of questions I used to work
at this Bank so I I know the questions
are gonna ask me anyway ask me series of
questions and I'll answer them you can
unlock my account and I can log in and
the person on the phone said I suggest
you use a weak or password or less
complicated password he didn't see and I
just bank's come on
so I had the bank tell me the two
different banks told me twice in the
past week to use Internet Explorer so
now Facebook has had you know Facebook
users have had their data taken right
it's stolen and then people are calling
the banks perhaps I I'm not saying
happened of maybe and they're asking
answering the questions exactly the bank
is trained to ask any and that's crummy
when I was a kid I wasn't the most
honest kid okay I got ahold of my
brother's bank book and I know all the
answers to his questions right they
didn't they didn't they didn't think
that anything he knows the answers these
brother of course okay yes sorry bro
yeah it's just crummy that now you have
to if you have Facebook you have to be
careful of absolutely everything I mean
you can go to
our link and see whether or not you were
in fact affected cat5 dot TV slash FB
hack will take you there now whether or
not you're affected this is something
that maybe we don't really think on how
this can happen because if I've got
connections like my mom on Facebook and
my mom's account now we're not quite
there yet but certainly in the next
generation there is a historical data of
even the parental roles so my wife for
example before she was Ferguson on
Facebook she was her maiden name right
because we're from the generation where
Facebook existed when we were teenagers
right so the next generation my kids now
all of a sudden so think of that
generation and that data is gleaned and
my daughter has a bank account and you
know the first question that the bank
might ask is what's your mother's maiden
name that is one of the questions that
is one of the questions and that is
easily gleaned for that generation if if
her account is hacked okay and it's not
her account that was hacked it was
Facebook's data that was hacked and now
that information is available to those
hackers so so it's not even necessarily
that they're calling the banks they can
use the online banking service it's like
I say to folks like the very most
important password for you to protect is
your email because what happens when you
forget your password somewhere else you
click forgot password and guess what
happens next email you get an email so
if your email account has been
compromised the first thing you need to
do is change your email on every service
that you have right
but it's a similar situation where if
they know the answers to the dummy
questions what's the name of your dog
what's your favorite teacher's name well
I liked all the photos of my favorite
teacher and and told her that she's a
great teacher on teachers day maybe even
said this is my favorite teacher yeah
exactly so all that information is now
available for a whole different kind of
social engineering attack that can
happen behind the scenes before we even
know it's even happening mm-hmm we're
not taking a phone call the banks not
even taking a phone call it's all
electronic
it's scary and you have to be very
skeptical of absolutely everything now
the FEU recommends that when you get
those questions enter a lie right
well and I'll be grateful oh well your
computer at work I set that up for you I
and I had someone call me once and said
I don't know what color monkeys are
don't know what color monkeys are I've
tried everything
I tried Brown I tried black orange it
has nothing to do with the answer not at
all nothing at all
when I get those questions I'm like
mashing the keypad with my palms like I
don't want these question if I ever
forget my password well then I'm gonna
have to deal with that I'm not gonna
forget my password and that's good yeah
I have to leave true story true story
someone has reportedly siphoned personal
information on 30,000 or more US
Department of Defense workers according
to anonymous sources at the Pentagon in
Washington DC an unnamed individual was
able to access department travel records
earlier this year and would have been
able to log employees submitted personal
information such as names dates of birth
and credit card numbers both military
and civilian workers are believed to
have been caught up in the theft and the
current estimates said at roughly 30,000
people having their records exposed to
miscreants with that number sets to
climb as the investigation continues the
data theft is said to have occurred not
within the Pentagon itself but rather
within a third-party vendor it uses to
book travel the vendor was not
identified word of the data spell comes
as the DoD is looking to kick off a
major reorganization of its IT
operations with the awarding of the
ten-year 10 10 a billion dollar Jedi
contract program cloud vendors are being
asked to put together proposals that
would see a single vendor get the task
of creating a new cloud system to handle
operations for
entire department that an outside vendor
would be tangled up in the theft of
personally sensitive information just as
the Pentagon looks to offload the bulk
of its agency and employee data to
another third party with Jedi is not
particularly looking good still a mere
30,000 personnel records would actually
be a huge improvement from the
government's worst data fumble the 20
million plus records stolen by Chinese
hackers in the 2015 OPM mega hack I
think if this shows us anything it's it
if I think for a moment that oh I'm not
gonna sign up for Facebook or I'm gonna
close my Facebook account because I
heard they you know I don't want my data
out there these are DoD staff members
yeah they're not necessarily on Facebook
so if you think oh man this is just the
world we live in
exactly you just have to just know that
boy it's out there people are people are
siphoning information I think that's the
unfortunate truth is that our data is
out there anyways yeah I I said to my
wife because she has a family member who
is vehemently opposed to Facebook right
now because of all the things that are
happening with data breaches and
everything else
mm-hmm and I said what they don't
realize is every time they pay with
their credit card every time they pay
with their debit card they're being
tracked anyways right those transactions
are now tied to your person they know
where you shop they know where you go
what time you're there they know your
trends they know that's why they do it
it's not a conspiracy theory it's just
the truth why do you think that the
grocery store in town now has a points
program because they can keep track of
what you're spending and what you're
doing exactly and then they provide
targeted advertising yeah and actually
do that and it works it's how the world
works now so you have to kind of accept
that but be smart about it exactly we
have to get used to it and we have to be
protective of our very important
information we have to be skeptical when
outside sources come in looking to us
for things that's it right but then we
all
so have to think about the people who
pretend to be us out there in the world
and that's that that's the stuff that I
have a lot of trouble with because I
can't control that as easily yeah right
it could already be out there and I
think that's where regulations have to
come into place or guidelines have to
come into place with regards to security
because companies and we've had this
discussion about the gentlemen who had
their Bitcoin stolen because their phone
company had allowed someone to do a sim
swap fraud and it comes down to that
staff member who allowed it to happen
right well they didn't authenticate that
this was really the person coming in and
doing a sim swap which was basically
gave this person coming in and
pretending to be the other person access
to their phone service switched it over
to them you do those kinds of things
can't happen anymore
yeah because our data our confidential
personal information is so tied to our
accounts and our devices it's a it's a
whole mental swap we have to do really
we have to really change the way we
think about absolutely every step of the
process so I mean knowledge is power and
that's why we do these new stories even
though they seem really disheartening
yeah it's not meant to be dark
I know spooky but we got it we got to be
realistic and we got a we got to kind of
educate ourselves yeah preventive
information for you and I think you hit
the nail on the head of being more
skeptical of those who pretend to be
third parties because as soon as they
have information about our accounts
we're more willing to give them more
information because someone will call us
or someone will approach us or send us a
letter that looks all official and has
official information when I get a bill
from my Internet company I don't
question it I just pay it well what if
it's not really my internet company
right to put a real easy spin on it
well if I can give you a just a quick
example of something that's happened to
me this week which is funny because like
you're in my mind now I was I have this
project for school so I'm googling all
these images that I add that I perhaps
needing for my project
and I'm clicking on them but their
Pinterest images and I don't have
Pinterest right so I'm in Google and I'm
signed into Google right but I'm
clicking and I'm like oh I don't have
Pinterest and I don't want Petra so I
just like X out of them and go to
something else well today in my email I
had an email from Pinterest well click
here and I thought I don't have
Pinterest how do they know like I'm not
just clicking and signing into this app
right right
I mean probably it's just because I was
in Google on my profile and they're
linked somehow I don't know they
probably own each other but but I now
like I don't open emails like that that
I think hmm if I want Pinterest I will
pursue you right I won't I won't open an
email from somebody who is like my bank
right yeah you've got to be really wary
of that even if it looks official yeah I
will go to you you don't need to come to
me thank you I don't need to click your
links thank you very much and speaking
of regulations perhaps helping with the
security of our data yes
we've jump right into our next story the
UK government wants to secure smart home
gadgets makers of smart home devices are
being encouraged to make their gadgets
secure against hack attacks the UK has
published a voluntary code of practice
for manufacturers that show how they can
proof their creations against common
attacks it aims to stop gadgets being
hijacked and used to mount cyber attacks
in stamp out designs that let cyber
thieves steal data the government
initiative is aimed at makers of small
smart gadgets for the home such as web
connected doorbells cameras toys and
burglar alarms the so-called Internet of
Things an increasing number of
cyberattacks exploit poor security on
these gadgets the detailed code includes
13 separate steps manufacturers can take
to produce more secure products the
steps include securely storing customer
data regularly updating software
requiring users to choose stronger
passwords making it easier for users to
delete data and reset a device as well
as setting up a vulnerability disclosure
policy
to companies so far HP and high of
Centrica have agreed to follow the code
excellent okay well this is a step in
the right direction
I say yeah so the Internet of Things we
talked about this a little bit last week
as well mm-hmm it's really easy just to
go with your default passwords that's it
yeah right some manufacturers bringing
out we mentioned like ten thousand of
the same device and putting the same
password on every single one right it's
just easy to flash the firmware right
exactly so the UK putting this out is
actually really timely and great
practice so I mean it's voluntary from
what I understand the thing and some
would say maybe this shouldn't be
voluntary maybe there should be law
maybe this should be enforced
maybe these rules should be put in place
by the government and forcefully applied
to companies right but I think my take
on it Sascha is is it not a good step in
the right direction is it not a good
guide for companies to start and I
really want them to like tackle this yes
to wake up and say okay these are these
are some good rules to follow I'm gonna
start it so now we see HP saying yeah
we're gonna follow this so now me as a
consumer I can personally feel a little
more confident in purchasing a smart
home device from HP right so it has this
added benefit of okay well I as a
company if I adopt these security
policies that government has laid out
for us to voluntarily adopt now the
consumer has gained confidence in our
practices and it's better for our
business exactly
consumer confidence is all you all you
really need is a company right so say
there are you know five different
companies and two of the five have
adopted these these practices I'm not
even going to shop with the other three
absolutely right I agree so it just
makes sense I mean maybe it's too costly
for them to make it a law I'm not quite
sure how it goes but if if they have
this as a voluntary thing it makes sense
to me that companies would actively
pursue following these recommendations
in these steps because it's really going
to benefit them in the law
well will it eventually become common
sense will it eventually get to the
point where no company has to be told by
legislation that their device needs a
username and password to log in right
and now even more so two-factor
authentication is becoming more
predominant as well yes so no company
needs to be told that their interface
needs a password
no they just that's duh yeah so does it
need to be legislation maybe not maybe
it needs to become common practice and
to the point where we consumers would
say they don't even use a password
that's stupid I don't want people that
be able to access my network so I'm not
gonna buy that can you imagine a burglar
alarm having like a default like generic
n because it's real because it's real
Sasha
so ok I don't have a burglar alarm AHA
right but if I did I would assume I was
secure it would hope I really really
hope but it's not always the case I
guess not
this verse not have to be a pilot ring
someone used a deep learning ai to
perfectly insert Harrison Ford into solo
a Star Wars story casting anyone other
than Harrison Ford in the role of Han
Solo just feels like sacrilege but since
Ford is now 76 years old playing a
younger version of himself would be all
but impossible or at least impossible if
you rely on the standard Hollywood
de-aging tricks like makeup and CG
artificial intelligence it turns out
does a pretty amazing job at putting
forward back into the role of solo the
YouTube channel dirt fakes uses the deep
faked technique with free software and
has been posting videos that demonstrate
the impressive and at times frightening
capabilities of image processing using
artificial intelligence using a process
called deep learning and AI analyzes a
large collection of photos of a given
person creating a comprehensive database
of them in almost any position and pose
it
then uses that database to intelligently
perform an automatic face replacement on
a source cliff in this case replacing
actor Alden and Rachel Energy's face
with Harrison Ford's as we've seen
before like when deep learning was used
to race actor Henry Cavalli's Justice
League mustache the results are not only
good they're actually better than the
visual trickery that Hollywood visual
effects studios are capable of that is
nuts and it just is one of those things
where it's like okay once again fan
films and fan fan creations are doing
more than what they're able to do in the
studio it's unbelievable it feels like
it's something attainable like we can do
that now
yeah the technology is you've got to be
good at it like these dirt fakes are so
pro at using the software but it would
be so much fun like we have how much
footage on category 5 like could we
could we be like superheroes or
something in like the next big movie yes
somebody make it happen somebody in the
community please make it happen
all right before we round up tonight
here are the crypto market looks out
looks as of 1700 hours when we recorded
the show Eastern Time on Wednesday
October 17th 2018 according to coin
gecko Bitcoin hits six thousand six
hundred sixty four dollars and sixty
eight cents u.s. litecoin is trailing of
fifty four dollars and sixty cents
aetherium is at two hundred and ten
dollars and thirty nine cents Manero is
at one hundred and eight dollars and
eleven cents
stellate stellite at six point six three
ten thousandth of a cent and trailing
even further behind that is turtle coin
slowly but surely
at 0.3 to ten thousandths of a cent
remember the cryptocurrency market never
closes and it is always volatile that's
all the time that we have
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community viewers for submitting stories
to us this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slate Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom and Sacha Rickman and I'm
Robbie Ferguson
[Music]
[Applause]
you
