hi everyone today I'm going to be
playing cereal because why not um the
reason I haven't been uploading for a
while is because it was a really busy
summer and we didn't really have enough
time to record any other videos and
today I'm going to be doing a gameplay
of sidorio with mods this mod includes
all kinds of amazing features like extra
skins and zooming so if you think that
I'm cheating with my zooming you don't
have to watch this video my goal is to
reach first place in this video so yeah
let's get started right now the leader
has a really nasty name so I'm not going
to say it and right now I met around
5,000 mass because i was playing off
camera
I'm in 17th spot
yay I was just about to die
yemen i'm in the leaderboard at seventh
place and my my name is mango 70
his boss I'm scared into the room I high
score format was about 82,000 and right
now i'm at its at 13,000 so hopefully
we'll be able to beat my record I so got
in ok I gotta restart I was in third
place her place
people are dying left right in the
center
that was close communitarian can struck
this guy
eat
did you see that that little guy was is
going around nice speeds right into me
the leader is at 33,000 so I'm gonna try
and kill him
that guy just goes through me hi he died
that's what he deserves who are you it's
not Christmas yet add people
oh yeah that wasn't that was amazing
hate you I don't really hate him but
still
why is my skin this weirdo pink thing I
had the YouTube skin
this guy's right
if this guy just died so that's a lot of
math yeah that guy was huge get go away
Sammy snake get my mission is to one
make it to number two and to kill
chamois snake
yeah Sammy's Nick died mission
accomplished i'm at around five thousand
mass almost and i'm in number twenty
ninth place i need to reach around 8,000
mask to make it into the leaderboard
just got that guy and I got all of his
mask yeah I'm in the leaderboard and I'm
a number nine some guy died over here
I don't trust this guy he's probably
gonna kill me or something see he says
his he's horrible at it but then he
kills this guy he's lying
yeah he died I'm number seven with nine
thousand mass rest in peace her Andy
please what the that guy went really
fast
so what you think what I'm gonna do is
Lucy
which will make my hole tighter the guy
will die I get back
yeah oh no I have to reach to 20,000
mass 26,000 here's some big people
that'll die why do I keep spawning as
this pink guy hold on let me change my
skin see it's only YouTube 1 i'm kind of
work I kind of like this one though
that guy didn't even collect the mass
that was right in front of his nose this
guy must die
if I get tight enough I might be able to
construct him or her
whoo
yeah that was awesome and the Canada
guide died
uh-huh it's what you deserve we're
trying to kill me gonna get this guy
number 12 yeah I'm on the leader board
again
that was close ah
it's funny when people die especially
when they try to kill you
Oh
me
there's a guy named sword right there if
you can see my cursor I don't know if
you can
got someone I basically just ran into me
and by the way so Dario is free and it's
a website online so if you want to play
it there's no download and there's no
fee and it shouldn't be laggy if you
have good Wi-Fi so it's just called
sugar dot io I call it so do I don't
know why yeah that guy was huge he was
probably in the leaderboard her clothes
I thought I'd died then weird I need to
get this yellow dude
don't where I'm going to try and get him
again after I collect this
I wish that a people ran into my sword
they would die they'll be amazing that
guy if I see him again I'm going to kill
him it's on the same server so i might
see him again
hmm let's get this car his name is hello
there mission kill hello there and make
it to first place
I get this guy cuz he's bigger than
hello there
yeah he died it means free mass someone
else died here snake remains are so
tasty
it'd be and that's 3,000 almost 4,000
mess
primas
what what the that was like three times
that I could have sworn that I died but
I didn't we I must be lacking
I get this big worm
and that'll be easy no I blame the
little snakes they let him escape haha
what you get for trying to kill me you
to 6,000 mass and then spot 15 which is
good
what is this guy trying to do construct
me while I'm trying to construct in
hello Zachary this guy's new jutsu
I'm gonna get this guy because
was like the easiest kill in the history
is so there yo i'm also going to get
this rainbow dude and dude you do choose
getting really on my nose
I'm gonna do my thing where I speed away
oh I got you too it's what he deserves
for trying to kill me all those times
and I got the rainbow guy
what's the future what does that even
mean
let's get these guys or not there's a
mess over here don't kill me please I'm
just an innocent snake murderer how am I
not dying you so bad it so there you
we come in fourth place please don't
kill me
I drink your milkshake oh that guy's
number two
why do people always but oh you stole
malade aboard after he died for a sec
I'm in second place if the first person
dies we'll be in first place please die
Todd 5825
please spare me
I'm just an innocent snake why are
people trying to constrict me and it's
all the little people
I'm going to go to the end because once
your bag everyone targets you so it's
really hard to not die guess I'm in
first place yes yes okay now i need to
stay alive as long as possible it's
actually kind of lucky that i actually
got in first place during this video
because i don't usually get in first
place is the edge what's really weird is
when you zoom out you it follows you
it's like crazy stalker I'm going to
follow this trail all the other person
might beat me if I don't get some more
mass in
once there was a surreal server where
all of the records for 100 and I'm just
like what is this it's people so tiny oh
hello sweet mass I'm gonna collect you
there's 485 people on the server and I'm
the biggest of them all other person
isn't really gaining mass too well okay
I'm gonna kill these two big eyes
because this guy's named die yeah you do
die mr. die it's what you should do yes
this might actually work I don't want to
get this my gin ninja dude the little
snakes always mess up your plans wow I
was almost there twenty thousand and
then this little snake comes out of
nowhere and kills me kisses deluxe at go
clicks cat cool creepy I don't dude hey
I don't trust her don't addresses canon
layers of rich creamy milk chocolate
they're twice the size of the kisses
chocolates join me an ad for candy I'd
say more like kids deluxe picky oh it's
not the same server so I can't get my
revenge I'm gonna get this guy because
he's obviously in the leaderboard I
think he's number two yes he's dry oh
the easiest way to kill someone is when
they try to constrict you
hopefully one of these guys will die
because I really need to mash right now
is fine this guy's name is Ben or
something
one of you must die actually both of you
must die so I can have your mass
construction one of these guys is going
to die and i'm going to be ready for it
where did they die
hey like I disappeared what then must
die oh I'm only attend Mass which means
i can't kill them i have to rely on them
to die themselves hopefully one of them
will just run into me know that guy is
in first place now but got jacksepticeye
is bae too creepy hates me just a leader
then it's got a lot of mass so i need to
kill him please be there when he died
this later he's got PewDiePie skin must
die sir
yes will be part of the constriction I
love being constructed because then you
can kill the constricts just so easy or
someone else will kill the constrictor
and you get free mad okay wait for it
I'm gonna kill this dude that's not fair
and of course not the same server so I
can't have revenge haha that guy died
basically this this games weird cross
between a Guardians and snake who's this
no it's 22 how had you Jews died it was
due to again he died again he just had a
different skin but he was called juju
go away please spare me i don't know why
i still play this game to be honest Bob
the Bob kind of a user name is that and
then there's no I artis I've saw one of
those guys was someone that I was
deciding if i should kill them or not
and now they're in the leader board
because i decided not to kill them
should have killed him when I had the
chance
I swear I did not hit that dude Wow
what's this let me choose different skin
this guy is messed up I like pac-man
dude so our goal is to kill number one
person and get our revenge from being
killed by little snakes I hate it when
you're really big on mass and then this
guy spawns in right in front of you and
then you die and then he collects all
your masses in and is instantly in the
leaderboard oh oh I just got double
leaderboard kill that is amazing those
guys were definitely in the leaderboard
they were huge and then as this guy
who's not in the leaderboard but
probably will soon will be so I need to
kill him da new king you gotta die
what the ice I swear I hit him like I
swear I should have died weird I mean
I'm not complaining oh yeah this is
amazing I'm getting so good at this game
kind of already gotten like three kills
that are people from the leaderboard I'm
already bigger than the new king and
he's been online for longer than me
that was the stupidest thing I could
have possibly done searching my skin
that skins unlucky I think that might be
youtuber skin but whatever if you know
what this skin is you can comment and
make me look like a fool if if it's not
a youtuber
there's a fake master OV here and nether
King 121 again juju's back juju's back
oh my oh my my enemies back huge it must
die already called them I twiced wanted
to come with done the witch is dead I
need to connect back to the that server
so i can called you too hmm i'm just
gonna click a random service there the
passion was instilled through my parents
watching them far mesenchyme attachment
for milk maybe
these usernames are getting weirder and
weirder hold on I have a great idea for
a new user name brilliant still not on
his server or her server
ah now i'm laughing because he was going
to die
it's always sad when you're about to
kill someone and then they don't die
oh so close no okay i'm getting
constricted so i can show you my
constructing tricks no it's always
annoying when there's another person in
the construction though yeah I died how
did I I didn't hit them wrong okay
hopefully i'll be on duty server oh no
i'm not on his server
I'm beautiful now
I'm even more beautiful now this is a
greatest skin of history in history of
slow their skins nor show could have
gotten that guy Oh
die you need to die
this video is really long
you must die I didn't kill you the first
time but I'm going to kill you now that
was close still gonna get him though I'm
an idea
the guys left oh I can strip them you
must die
hopefully i'll be in doo doo server and
anyway I need to wrap up the video now
so thank you for watching this random
video because usually we do mind tests
and such but thank you for watching and
please check out my other videos goodbye
