we're looking at a Bluetooth speaker
it's super cool it's super tiny this is
actually it's called the mini h2o from
altec lansing and you can pick one up at
cap five dot TV / bluetooth but why do
we want to look at this tonight well
first of all bluetooth has come a long
way there's very low latency in music
these days when you're streaming audio
to headphones we've got you know we've
looked at the some great headphones here
on the show so these this particular
speaker is going to allow you to stream
your music from your phone from your
device and it's it's going to do it
quite well what I like about this though
is that it claims to be very very rugged
right at this price point you can take
it on your motorbike and not have to
worry about it you know if you drop it
or something it's probably going to be
okay you can take it on vacation you can
hang it on vacation I apparently you can
take it swimming which is interests me
like a little tunage love ya hey let's
get a look okay so the mini h2o from
altec lansing it says waterproof sand
proof everything-proof floats in water
six hours battery life and includes
hands-free speakerphone operations so
what that means is that hey if you're
swimming if you're in the bath it's
probably a lot safer to use that for
your speakerphone than to actually hold
your phone we've heard stories and you
know don't don't do it okay so let's get
into the box let's get a look and we're
going to actually test this thing there
we go okay what do we have unboxing this
kind of stuff is pretty basic whoo
stickers you'll find those will find
their way to the back of my laptop okay
we've got a USB cable we've got a
carabiner you know something is rugged
when they include a carabiner mountain
climbing and we've got an exhilarating
into a headphone jack if you
have an Android device or an older
iphone and then we've got just
instructions which maybe you'll need it
maybe we won't think these things have
come a long way and they're pretty easy
to use all right there we go and for the
next class there's next half of the show
we will be just reading the instructions
that's rough just been okay yeah let's
figure this out there are three buttons
on this fashion what do you take me for
the instructions are there just in case
you're stuck we're going to just see if
we can just figure this out tonight
pretty basic stuff here folks but what
makes it fun is that it is you know
apparently very very rugged so you can
see it is ruggedized it has a nice soft
rubberized feel to it the buttons are
rubberized and down here i assume is
where we're going to charge it there we
go so we've got the charge port for USB
and the auxiliary input for audio from
something basically what that does is it
means hey you can use this speaker with
the device that does not have bluetooth
so right so that's decent nice little
addition anyway all right let's fire it
up and see what happens I'm just holding
the power button whew altec lansing how
can you guys hear that welcome to altec
lansing this is Al Capp 1980s grammar
police are like going crazy right now
this is speaker that's not altec lansing
okay so it looks like its weight in two
pair so let's see what happens here I'm
gonna grab my phone and I'm going to
bring up blue too so I'm just going to
get there for you before I put my phone
down mmm that's some good TV right there
okay okay so I fired up bluetooth can
you all see that okay a little bit out
of focus on the camera we've got these
lights above us which makes it difficult
okay so I'm going to search for devices
let's see if it comes up just up there
it is mini h2o speaker so it didn't
really take much I'm just going to click
on it pairing
and it's done it says connected to call
and media audio up at the top there so
I'm going to just throw on some music
and see how this sounds you rockin yeah
lil bit of dubstep because dubstep is
traditionally released under Creative
Commons a lot of it is here we go okay
so let's plan on my phone there we go so
just hired right dance party oh yeah
here yeah okay so let's check out the
sound here Dave's way over there I'm
going to crank it so that volume I do
get a little distortion little bit I'm
good about their which is louder than I
would listen to that I feel like I'm
yelling oh that's unexpected you feel
that yeah it's got some good kick to it
okay honey bees kick yeah okay so this
thing is rugged right so they say all
right so what are we gonna do the test
batter oh I don't know
this is the moment of truth folks altec
lansings mini h2o ah it's like the sub
something that's not bad at all I don't
if you guys can hear that that's amazing
what's the water completely submerged
and it's lotion actually and there you
go so if you drop it in the water you
don't have to worry about losing it
that's kind of key I mean take it on
your boat kind of perfect for that there
we go so that's the altec lansing if the
altec lansing mini h2o you can pick one
up actually on our website go to cat
five dot TV / bluetooth now that was
really really easy to set it up yeah out
of the box I just held in the power
button and then just shut off so there
you go we're going to let that drip dry
for a little bit but perform well under
water it floats it's proven itself I
like it it's on my list and that is a
cap five dot TV / bluetooth
[Music]
