[Music]
with you every day with Jeff Westen
commands crews
welcome to new every day on Jeff Weston
and I'm Lawrence Cruz so glad you're
here it is our talkback episode now that
doesn't mean that you can talk to us
you're gonna look kind of silly talking
to your TV or computer monitor however
what that means is you've had the
opportunity to ask your questions for us
to answer now we mentioned this a couple
of weeks ago on one of our past episodes
and so we said hey you can contact us
either through the Facebook page comment
on YouTube you can send us an email
check us out on our website new video TV
all those various ways can get in
contact with us nobody sent a carrier
pigeon
there was no pigeon showing up at my
door but that's okay but we did get a
ton of questions that came in from
across North America well then which is
very cool I like that some of our blue
team echo nothing from Mako yeah nothing
from Mexico no is North America okay but
a lot of good questions and some of them
when I they came in I'm looking I'm
going who I don't know so okay John I'm
leaving if you know but they're great
questions some of them I would say are
some basic fundamental questions some of
them are really hard heading
hard-hitting and very current topics
like within a couple of weeks old and so
we're gonna try and unpack them all
thankfully we've had time to digest them
and do some research and I like that
part of the talk this is my very first
talkback episode ever
you've never done anything like this not
well no not quite like this it's great
so this is the premiere folks let's go
imagine doing this like a Sunday sermon
imagine like saying to the church hey
send your questions to me what do you
want to hear about yeah that's a concept
I don't know this is just a whole lot
different and I love it but it has been
it has been it's been good to have just
a little bit of time to look at the
questions in advance as certainly by no
means are we the authorities no not at
all in fact what I've enjoyed this
mm-hmm
I've enjoyed the privilege of interact
with your questions and I think it's
going to be another great show yeah now
one thing I want to say is our responses
please don't take them as as like gospel
truth fact it's our opinions and so in
no way should you see us as the
authorities on it well anything he says
please don't pity that's really anything
I say please that's right that's what
I'm saying no I'm not saying that to
discredit what we're saying but what I'm
saying is we're not the authorities we
are just two schmoes in front of a
camera right kind of flapping our gums
but at the same time we've got enough
time in the bank to have some experience
and in answering kind of questions like
this and so we're gonna do the best that
we can to answer the questions that have
come in and but at the end of the day
always encourage you to fact check to
yourself and make sure you go to
Scripture that's reminds me of a Bible
verse which says the Bereans were more
noble than the Thessalonians okay
because when they heard ordinary schmoes
telling them things they listened to
what they heard and then they went to
the scriptures to see if in fact it it
agreed with what the Bible says the
Bereans more noble than the
Thessalonians wow that's a mouthful so
there you go ahead yeah be more noble
than us okay so we're gonna jump right
into it and so one of the first
questions comes to us from Sasha in
Barrie Ontario Canada and she says a
Canuck
yeah the first question from Canadian a
that's right she says is it enough that
I pray every day or do I really in
quotations have to go to church
over to you Jeff no I love it I've been
asked that question quite a lot over the
years yes and I think even with today's
culture more so now than ever because it
used to be within North American society
Oh even the unchurched you go to church
on Sunday well I see you mean yeah you
mean in culture Church was a little more
except that's right and yeah today's
culture it's well I got to wear
on Sundays and so it's a very topical
question and I know like when I used to
work in the prison system my schedule
would only allow me to be off one out of
four Sundays so 75% of church services I
missed and I struggled with that so it's
a very real question and one that for
myself I tested at one point going okay
God if I'm missing Church because I'm
actually going to work to make money am
I putting money before you or should I
be looking at another job and did you
see a great big eraser and he was
erasing your name from the land no no I
never saw that land Jeff Weston Lamb's
Book of Life here I don't know let's see
we get it but no at the end of the day
what I you know I spent time in prayer
and my wife prayed about it as well and
basically what it came out to is God
blessed us with that job he he led us
into that job from a path that we never
would have gotten there any other way so
we know it was ordained by God that we
ended up in that job and it's led to a
whole new avenue of career for me that
is full of blessing and I know that's
part of God's plan for our life and so
the fact that God put a plan in for us
where I was missing church didn't mean I
was any less a Christian that it
impacted my relationship because there
was a reason for it and God set that up
now that was for work if I just wanted
to go visit pastor pelo and sister
sheets and just sleep in on Sunday
mornings that would be another story but
at the end of the day I think a couple
weeks ago we address this best when we
talked about the body of Christ and we
are meant to be in community right and
so I think the big question is for Sasha
what is your definition of church is it
the building yeah and and certainly that
and that's that's a great question my
guess is that the question Sasha you you
were referring to attending a service in
a building that we call a church
and so at least that's how I'm going to
approach the question now suffice it to
say we did a little bit of research and
you can see the church is not a building
that's right so here it is that I
understand the question but really in
order to help answer it
the Bible teaches so clearly that the
church isn't brick and mortar it's the
pitch people it's Laurence Jeff insert
your name here those of you who know
Christ as your Lord and Savior you me us
we we are the Church of the Living God
so what where are we getting that it's
it's the Assembly of Christians gathered
to express the unity that they have what
found in Christ Jesus hey guess what my
sins are forgiven are you a follower or
two
yeah and we share that together well do
I have to be near this guy Jeff no but
there's a wanting to be near Jeff and
every other follower of Christ where you
know when we can gather together on
purpose to do what a common goal to give
thanks we just had an episode on
Thanksgiving about Thanksgiving we
gather to give thanks to our God who's
worthy and to celebrate all that he's
done give Him worship and glory and
honor like wow like that's that's so man
it's what I do it's it's the lifeblood
of everything that I am right you know
so I think that's good so the Bible says
in actually it is first Corinthians 12
what do you know that scripture that we
were talking about a few weeks back it
says now you Christians are the body of
Christ and individually you are members
of it so coming together that's the
Bible verse / first Corinthians 12 27
coming together in various assemblies is
essential says this author you know who
it is it happens to be a man by the name
of John Piper many of you would know him
and I've not met him personally but boy
he's a well-respected theologian in
Bethlehem United States I believe we
have viewers from Bethlehem in the show
I shout out to you from Bethlehem those
of you who are watching you certainly
know who I'm talking about
Piper rights so coming together in
various Assemblies going to church do I
have to this is what he says it's
essential to giving expression to the
fact that Jesus died to create a united
people and not just isolated Christian
individuals so we find that the Bible
then describes descriptions of those
first century Christians gathering
regularly those those brand-new converts
when Christ died rose from the dead and
appeared to those people we learn
historically guess what they did they
regularly went to church as it were to
use our lingo and I you know as you're
reading that one of the thoughts that
popped in my head is you know a chord of
two or three strands is not easily
broken come on now and so from a
relationship standpoint for being a
Christian we are stronger when we're
together with others and so if that
means coming to church on a Sunday or
maybe you've got a home church maybe you
can't get to church on Sundays and so
it's a matter of just hanging out with
other Christians yeah so to answer the
question is it enough that I pray or do
I have to go to church I would say the
safe answer is yeah you have to connect
with the body of Christ but does that
mean the brick-and-mortar church no but
you have to connect with the body of
Christ to have a solid real growing
relationship yeah and that's that have
to it's kind of like your car and fuel
you don't have to put fuel in your car
what it's going nowhere but if you want
to go somewhere well you don't have to
but we strongly recommend that you want
to go anywhere really you know what
that's a that I think is a good
illustration we don't we don't have to
do anything we'll talk more about that
in a few minutes but that's because
there's a question related to yeah you
know
and it's great but I think I think
that's a good a good start to a very
very good question thank you to Sasha I
believe it is yes Sasha from Barry for
this question yeah
now oddly enough like we're one question
in and we already got to take a break
like this is this is moving quick we
might have to pull two episodes out of
this well that's good I'm like a hoarder
maybe three who knows so we're gonna
take a quick break
we'll be back in a minute with more
questions stick around for more for new
every day for a limited time get your
hands on limited-edition shirts from the
category 5 TV network these high quality
shirts are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts
hi friends we're back and just before
the break Jeff and I were discussing a
great question from a gal named Sasha
from baryon tant very Ontario Pamela
that's right my first talk back show and
yeah do I have to go to church great
question well let's hopefully we'll do
this with every question we'll get the
Bible involved yeah hey Jeff there's a
couple of verses in Hebrews chapter 10
happens to be my favorite chapter in the
Bible I might say another one but it's
definitely it rivals others for first
spot okay so right now it's very
convenient this is my favorite chapter
Hebrews 10 verses 24 and 25 say this and
let us consider so give some thought to
this how to stir one another to love and
good works it's like okay I got that
yeah comma not neglecting to meet
together Wow as is the habit of some
people who what we're starting to get
this habit of not getting together with
other Christians
okay weren't being encouraged and
stirred up in their walk with Christ and
they certainly by their odd sense we're
not encouraging others and stirring them
up what that's a huge factor to what
this church is who we are as the people
of God is sharpening one another loving
one another stirring each other not just
going to church saying what are you
gonna give me but here I'm in church
what can I do to be a giver mmm-hmm oh
my goodness what a game-changer that is
by the way as I'm still paused on this
verse once you get a hold of what you
can do to be a giver in the Assembly of
God and even though I hope that doesn't
sound Church a giver to the people of
God to others to human beings and not
just to the people of God to anybody man
when that gets inside of you and that
catches fire that there's no way you'll
want to stay away from people right when
you can you can exist to make somebody
life better oh my goodness that's a drug
man that's it's uh man you get a taste
of that you'll you'll want more and more
for sure yeah it's the truth right so I
was in the habit of some says don't stop
getting together but instead encouraging
one another and all the more as you see
the day drawing near Jeff one of the
things I've noticed certainly with the
people I talk to you that there's a
general sense in the entire world that
man they think that the temperature is
rising yes
economically politically internationally
like what's going on right right that
lends itself many people to be thinking
is the end close at hand well right well
certainly not getting any farther away
well exactly we're one day closer today
than we were yesterday and all the more
it says as you see that day drawing near
we ought to be with one another so that
we can courage each other that's just
one verse from Hebrews well there you go
I think that's pretty much answers the
issue right there all right okay no we
got another question another one that
came in from Barry from Luke and it's
how come God doesn't always answer my
prayers how come what you guys are just
going from the community and they're
very over the place but you know I think
you know with the amount of time we've
got left I think we can get this one
unpacked pretty quickly sounds great how
much time do we have left that's a good
question more than two minutes less than
30 listen listen somewhere in there all
right okay well it says yeah how come
whoa why doesn't he answer my prayers
Luke from Barry thank you for sending in
your question good question one that I
think everybody asks well I've been
there
yeah and I've wondered hey God like yeah
that phrase the heavens are like brass
mm-hmm Lord it seems like I'm praying to
you and I know you're way up there and
in the heavens but why are my prayers
only going to my ceiling and maybe not
even that far yep I've felt that way
before it's like oh I can see them all
just stuck to their
yeah going nowhere so it is it is a very
good question again searching on the
internet and the reason I'm saying that
to you we want to just a great place to
go don't believe everything you read but
be like the Bereans right that's
research it
hey what's out there and one author says
sometimes it does seem like our prayers
are just bouncing off the ceiling but
what we feel isn't always the same as
what really is true well what really is
true the this writer continues to say
the Bible teaches us here it is Luke
that God does answer our prayers and one
verse that supports that is John chapter
16 and verse 24 but the writer continues
assist but there's a few things we have
to remember God's answer may not always
be what we are hoping for and that's the
key that's probably behind the question
right it's like exactly right hoping for
something else but you know you know I
think of all the prayers that I prayed
if God was to answer every one of the
way I wanted I'm pretty sure this world
would be messed up I think there was a
Jim Carrey movie years ago where's he
from he gave up a citizenship I believe
oh he did yeah yeah he surrendered his
Canadian citizens but he did silence
yeah but he had a movie called Bruce
Almighty and in that you know in that
movie he God hid transfer powers to him
to vacation for a week not really real
but so Bruce had to start answering all
these prayers and at one point he just
said yes to all like it did a reply all
and it was yes and it screwed up the
world everybody won the lottery and they
all got like two pennies and it led to
riots okay if you think of it that way
yeah if God answered every prayer the
way we wanted to boy would the world be
messed up yes oh yeah I'm just hey
that's Hollywood but that's a good point
yeah
yeah there because there's a lot of
people praying calling and and actually
their prop they're asking the total
opposite things right exactly yeah
so imagine hey be thankful you're not
God having to put all that together yes
but he's got a good and perfect well and
he does a good and perfect will is that
you said yes absolutely Jeff I and and
there's a Bible verse that says surely
the God of all the earth will do justly
he'll do rightly and I believe that Luke
I believe that every time I'm praying to
God he's listening to me in fact I
believe he knows what's on my heart
before I even ask him that's right oh my
goodness how about the Bible passage
that talks about God sent the answer to
your prayers nobody calls out and says I
sent the answer to your prayer but you
need to know something
there was a WrestleMania match going on
in the heavenlies right when the powers
of darkness sought to interrupt the
messenger with the answer are you
kidding me
Wow and so here on earth we're wondering
God you even heard our cries as yes I've
heard but there's a skirmish going on in
the heavenlies that's that's trying to
interrupt the answer that I have sent oh
my goodness wrap your mind around that
exactly so what do we take away from
that
yeah God's answering there's
principalities and powers of wickedness
and darkness that are seeking to
interrupt the answer which is a biblical
reality it has been in the past it's
certainly possible and real that it
happens yet today and and that would
encourage me to say oh that's going on
then I'm gonna add more of my prayers
and keep on trusting and we know the
Bible says what's that God says what is
that he they like him through a sweet
smelling savor that God says all the
prayers of the Saints oh I love what I'm
hearing it's like a beautiful smelling
scent to me keep it up and all of those
prayers rise to heaven to bring bring a
smile on God's face
well he's inclined to say okay
I've heard enough just answer them
already move heaven and earth on behalf
of my children well that's the power of
prayer oh for sure and I mean you know
with that concept in line I mean as a
father I love hey you know when my kids
come in like that can you do this or can
you do that and I love being able to
answer them but sometimes the answer is
not what they want to hear right and the
answer is no sorry you you cannot go
through all of your candy right before
bedtime because there's a wreath there's
a reason I don't want that because sugar
high right at bedtime yeah and so that
falls in line with the concept I
remember being taught in Sunday school
what back when I was a kid sometimes
God's answer is no sometimes it's you
need to wait and sometimes it's yes and
I think a prime example there's two in
the Bible one is right before Christ
went to the cross and the Garden of
Gethsemane and he's saying God if you
could take this cup for me I don't want
to go to the cross but it's not about my
will that's your will so to be clear
Jesus knows he's gonna go and get beaten
to a pulp yep they're gonna kick him
spit on him you're gonna stick like hit
his side with a spear
you're gonna whip them beyond
recognition so he knew what he was
facing and he was saying hey God if it's
possible not me can be exactly called
Jeff yeah one 800 card yeah call the
Canadian that's right but God's plan was
no you have to go through this because
you are the way to salvation for all of
my children and so Christ went through
it another one and I think this is this
is the one that really sticks with me is
a story of Lazarus
so Lazarus passes away and his family
has sent people to Jesus to say Lazarus
is sick mmm you know he hasn't quite
died yet when they sent them and so he
dies when they're on when they're on the
way and they come to Jesus and he's like
'hey i'm gonna hang out here for a
couple more days okay this is Mary and
Martha that's right okay sisters Jesus's
personal friends with this family yes
okay
and so he's told that he's totally sick
and he's gonna die and Jesus is like
yeah I'm gonna chill here like I'm
hanging out with my people just give me
a couple of days Lazarus dies
then Jesus is upset and that's where you
get the first jesus wept
yeah like he knew what was coming in
this story but he wept because this was
a friend of his who's passed away and so
Jesus then travels there and he's
standing in front of Lazarus grave after
four days
this guy's like his body's starting to
rot the stench is kicking up and Jesus
goes hey Lazarus come on up out of there
and Lazarus gets up from the dead four
days later and comes out and I mean it
would take those grave clothes off
exactly and so in this story you've got
Mary Martha saying Jesus if you were
here he wouldn't have died he's like
it's not about me it's not about Lazarus
it's about God's glory and so in this
story their prayer was don't let him die
hey Luke
these girls well I'm gonna add this I
think they were upset at Jesus they were
ticked off Jesus how come you were here
because we know that you can do this and
if you had have been here
then our Lazarus man he wouldn't have
died what's wrong with you God's you see
that finger coming out Lord yeah that's
the attitude when I'm hurt right I have
to watch out that I'm not gonna wag my
finger against God and this is a great
question Luke God how come I uh and I
believe you can we know you can but you
didn't yeah and in this case Jesus
didn't that's right four days you say
four days oh now before the show when we
were talking about this you mentioned
something about theologians in the four
days when why four days was important
and I love this fact I remember here two
years ago and I forgot about okay this
is and it was probably me it was a good
Jeff yeah that was good no I
same thing I remember I was being I was
loud and I believe it was from a friend
of mine who's been back and forth to
Israel like literally close to 40 times
maybe even north of that now I don't
know but point is he's had a lot of
chats with like one-on-one with rabbis
and he's learned so much but there is
this understanding
I was taught that even magicians of the
day remember the Old Testament story
where the staff would turn into snakes
and Moses did that and I'm on the
magician's they did the same thing
there's it's like I've rise like how in
the world did they do that but then the
good thing is is that Moses snake ate
there so you know it's like okay we're
all good but how did they do that well
similarly there was a belief in this
time of Lazarus when he died that the
magician's were able to raise a man from
the dead or a person from the dead as
long as it was they were that person was
dead three days or less she was like why
and so I was taught that one of the
reasons why Jesus waited for the fourth
day is because he knew in that region
that when Jesus knew that when he walked
in and commit Lazarus said get up and
Lazarus rose from the dead that
everybody there would have been saying
wait a second it's been four days he
must be the Messiah which is exactly
what Jesus had been naming which is the
good news of the gospel this Jesus who
had no place to lay his head who who
didn't come with great pomp and
circumstances he was just a carpenter
from Nazareth his saying guess what I'm
here because the Father has commissioned
me that gets I'm here I do in my dad's
will and I am the Messiah they're like
how can you be well when he rose Lazarus
from the dead
it was unmistakably clear that he must
be the Messiah cuz only the Messiah
could do that Oh Jeff I uh so are we
willing to allow God to manipulate the
circumstances of our life even over the
death of a loved one in order to bring
him glory ooh easy to say now harder
when we're the ones enduring that pain
but can we I remind you what Jeff said
it's a shortest verse in the English
translation anyway Jesus wept only two
words in the English Jesus wept he's an
agony over the fact that his friend has
died and he's an
over what his other friends his Lazarus
family he is feeling it and Luke you who
asked the question I want you to know
God is very very very interested in the
cries of your heart and the prayers that
you offer to him the Bible very clearly
says he ears every one of them but the
Bible also says God's ways are so much
higher than our ways and so we get to
say God no matter what the circumstance
I'm gonna keep on trusting in you
because I don't get it all but you do so
I put my hope and my trust in you great
answer oh man I'm enjoying this it's so
alive we're at a time though are we at a
time it like we've only scratched - of
all these questions so if you're okay
with it I think we're just gonna have to
do another episode I think we should do
a second talk back yeah I love it okay
that's all the time we've got for today
if you have questions by all means send
them in to us Jeff a new everyday TV
Lawrence a new every day on TV you can
comment on YouTube Facebook however you
watch us we want to hear from you and
we'll continue to do more talkback
episodes that's what we got for today
god bless you bye catch a new episode of
new every day every Friday morning at
new every day TV
we're also on roku cody flex youtube
google play music podcasts and news
or if you're in Southern California tune
in every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb
TV channel 33 television for the high
desert
you
