welcome to category five technology TV
we've got a great show planned for you
tonight we've got your comments we've
got your questions that you've submitted
to us over the past couple of weeks
we're also going to be taking a look at
what it means to find a fake SD card
what kind of red flag should we watch
for and why does it even matter to us
stick around this is category five
technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only the
solid state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters
cat5 TV slash ia IB category 5
technology TV is on the air episode
number 570 I'm Robby Ferguson I am Satya
Rickman and if you are already a patron
well hey just want to first of all say
thank you very much for supporting
category-five TV we had a hard drive
crash we just before the show we had a
light bulb blow up which is you think a
light bulb blows up but in a studio
light bulbs are really expensive and so
we have these kinds of expenses that
come up all of a sudden and then they
have to be dealt with so our patrons
really helped us to be able to to afford
those kinds of little they come yeah and
did you know it only takes one dollar a
month to become a patron yes I did know
that yes incredible rose act more
surprised like why that's one dollar one
dollar but I bought a coffee today that
cost me two dollars exactly
right right so if everybody we're able
to come together and say hey I'll give a
dollar a month to category five TV then
all of a sudden all of the expenses are
covered and we can take this thing to
the next level folks right so we do have
some hardware needs right now at this
very time so I'd encourage you if you
haven't already done so check out our
patreon page it is patreon.com slash
category-five and of course you can also
visit our tip jar if you want to throw a
little extra in there
it's simply donate dot category-five TV
which is good if that one's good but i
feel like you want to do patreon because
because of the extras you get from it
right what like vlogs log-log behind the
scenes laughs and some would say what is
a vlog that doesn't even sound like a
word
it's a video log I guess is what it
means but basically you get to join me
behind the scenes see what's going on
learn about upgrades and changes here at
the studio before they occur learn what
we are going through here behind the
scenes and what it takes to make
category-five happen great I think
that's a really cool thing yeah now
that's not to say like everybody can
watch this is a free broadcast like
there is nothing and and no matters will
be - no matter what we love you a
regardless of anything if you give zero
dollars a month one dollar a month
twenty dollars a month it's fine it's
just that it's helpful for us to know
that the money is consistently coming in
so that we can do things consistently
like pay their rent yes and I hate
asking for money and so I want to move
on okay let's go know that I am with you
there okay so if you think y'all they're
talking about money again
no I want to say thank you I want to say
hey I encouraged you to become a part of
that but let's move on let's yeah cuz I
hate talking about it - okay we've got
to take a really quick commercial break
now when we come back we're gonna be
talking about SD cards on Amazon and
eBay that are fake can you believe that
such a thing exists I'm far do you
imagine what that could mean we we've
also got lots of your comments viewer
questions that we're gonna be sharing
with you tonight as we pick up on our
second part of our viewer a question
extravaganza don't go anywhere
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts
welcome back this is category five
technology TV it's actually ready for a
sad story I am ready for a sad story
okay
now this I'm gonna completely anonymize
this story but this is absolutely true
so a person who was doing a family favor
was asked to film the wedding of a
relative uh-huh and being the
videographer and the photographer in the
family said I would like to do that for
you right but what do you do before you
shoot a wedding you make sure that
you've got enough space on your SD cards
yes because you're shooting on your your
DSLR in this case or maybe a hand camera
and you realize that I don't want to run
out of space so what do we do we get on
Amazon we get on eBay and we find a car
that has a lot of space that's not going
to break the bank right and then we go
and we shoot the wedding in its entirety
in its entirety and and then what
happens if that SD card doesn't work
taking it one step further what happens
if that SD card is fake then you hope
people took pictures on their cell phone
exactly you've probably got everybody in
the congregation holding their cell
phone and it probably takes pretty good
video these days yeah getting that
footage and stable it's probably not
gonna be the same quality that is a
heartbreak yeah how does it happen right
well I can imagine that happens with
trust right it happens with trust and
lack of experience like I would just
order an SD card because you see a great
deal and you know a great deal when you
see one right I just scroll through the
comments like the first four or five and
I'm like other people like this I'll buy
it yeah okay yeah so like and I'm
telling the real truth about Who I am
right like I will impulse buy without
asking you first
you know you don't need to ask me but
tonight we're gonna look at some of the
the red flags that we can look for okay
in this particular scenario of buying an
SD card and of course it transcends a
lot of different things now taking your
approach of looking at the first few
comments and and things like that the
first few reviews looking at the star
rating the problem that we run into with
that is that we get a lot of pop up
fly-by-night stores selling on eBay and
selling on Amazon that I have only been
around for a couple of weeks and there's
red flag number one right but they get
other people that are part of their scam
right to rate and comment on the
products that they're selling right so
backing up a little bit what is a fake
microSD card so it's not that it's fake
in that it's not actually an SD card no
it is an SD card but what they do is
they'll print on it that it is a certain
capacity even though it is not so in the
case of our wedding videographer they
were shooting on a 256 gigabyte micro SD
card I'm going to bring up Amazon here
and I'm gonna do just a quick search
like you might do for a micro SD card in
that capacity so 256 gigabyte micro SD
and here on Amazon so know that this is
not about Amazon being untrustworthy
this is that we as consumers need to
realize that when we're shopping online
especially we have to be the quality
control in a lot of ways so we have to
watch for red flags we have to be
careful and it's not Amazon's fault it's
not a bays fault this is the nature of
the world that we live in where sites
like these allow other people to sell
products through their service ok so in
this case unfortunately it was fake and
I'm gonna talk to you a little bit about
that in just a moment so first the first
thing that we see a sand disc comes up
and sand discs are in this capacity 200
gigs is $69.50 Canadian there's a 256
gig which is what we're looking at it's
$100
105 dollars and 61 cents okay so the
first thing that we know is that the
first couple that come up are in around
the hundred dollar range okay if we keep
going through the list we're gonna see
that the cheapest one in that capacity
now here's a samsung here for a hundred
and seventeen dollars and so we start to
think wow these are really expensive so
what other options are there so let's
sort from low to high price and whoa lo
and behold ladies and gentlemen a 256
gigabyte card for just $9.99 Canadian
which for those of you in America that's
about three dollars okay so red flag
number two not possible okay
so just so you know not possible let's
look at this card itself looking at the
picture of the card we noticed it's not
Kingston it's not SanDisk it's not Tran
transcend it's not PNY it's not any
brand that we can recognize whatsoever
now when this first went up it had four
or five stars it's starting to go down
as people start our ordering it let's
look at some of these reviews and we can
see that do do okay first one I use this
in my phone for the weekend transferred
files on to it and then it corrupted
everything think about that for just a
second just hold that in the back of
your mind it worked fine so you plug
this in and it's working fine now for
our videographer they plugged it into
their camera and of course like anybody
would do they shot a couple of videos
around the house they tested it it's
working great yes I got a deal at $9.99
for a 256 gigabyte card right jumping
back to the profile let's see what else
we can find about it here so there's
nothing really about the brand or what
it is if I highlight over top of the
seller we can see that they have a high
rating so that's good oh this is compare
offers no that's not this
either so that's not even the seller so
a little bit deceiving a little bit
deceiving right because that is a
different offer from a different seller
so looking at this of course we see it
is extremely cheap it looks like a
legitimate carton and it does actually
physically look like a legitimate card
in person when you hold it in your hand
but we know that it's missing a couple
of things so another thing that we
notice is that okay at this capacity it
doesn't have any markings that it's like
UHS ultra-high-speed which it most
likely would at this capacity but
certainly no brand name is offered
so my red flag my biggest red flag with
this one and why I would move on is that
it's too good to be true right so then
we think but I can buy this I'll take
that risk it's only ten dollars and
Amazon allows me to return things if
they're not good if it doesn't work if I
have a problem with this card I can send
it back right because the card itself to
my pocketbook is only worth ten dollars
right what is that wedding video worth
to you yeah it's everything what are the
photos that you take on your phone worth
to you those things are priceless in a
lot of a lot of times those things are
priceless you can't replace them you
can't in the case of a wedding and
pictures the family
you can't retake them right right so
what happened here so this is this is an
example of a very very likely fake card
on Amazon having ordered this card
mm-hmm and shooting video as I said it
worked the first review said at first I
started transferring files to it so it
worked right but then all of a sudden it
corrupted the data because the card
itself
now I physically had this in my hand and
I plugged it into my Linux machine and I
ran it against fdisk and I did a little
bit of math the card showed that it was
256 gig up
according to the report from fdisk right
it's a 256 gigabyte card now looking a
little bit closer at the sector count of
that card and doing a little bit of math
and figuring out what the card really is
is physically not what the file system
is telling me it is right the card was
2.4 gigabytes
okay how does that happen
so a malicious party has manufactured
cards that are 2 gigabytes in capacity
right
they've relabeled them as 256 gigs
they've actually connected them to a
system that has overwritten the file
tables to make it look to your system to
your camera to your computer as though
it is 256 gigs everything that you see
about this card shows you that it's 256
gigs right as you start working with it
as you film video on this card it works
until you hit 2.4 gigs and then it keeps
working because your camera still says
this is a 256 gig card that's what the
card says it is in the file table in the
filesystem table and it keeps recording
but where's the data going into the
abyss of nothingness and so then having
shot all that video on this card yeah
plugging it into the computer after the
event and realizing I only have 2 point
4 gigabytes of video and everything else
is lost
the filesystem says that they're there
because remember the file allocation
table is only a reference it's like a
it's a list of all the files that are
currently on the card so the file
allocation table tells Windows when you
plug it in or your MacBook when you plug
it in or your Linux machine when you
plug it in here's a list of all the
videos you took here are a whole bunch
of MOV files and they amount to a
hundred gigs but you try to click on one
and then the file allocation table looks
for the data on the card can't find it
and spews out either an error message or
just a bunch of garbled video
the data itself it doesn't exist with
anything salvageable no in this
particular case not at all the test
videos before the wedding
salvaged abou not what they're looking
for now so we have to watch for red
flags again this isn't a problem caused
by Amazon that's the the nature of
purchasing from any vendor like a man
think of Amazon we've used the example
you use the example of calling them a
mall right you walk into the mall and
you don't automatically trust every
little kiosk in that mall just because
they're in a mall that you trust hmm
because the kiosk is really the person
who's selling this product and did they
even manufacture it who knows the
company that's selling it may think
they've got a real great deal on 256
gate guards right and then maybe they
don't know any better
the fact is in this particular case the
cards were fake and as you can see on my
screen a ten-dollar 256 gigabyte not
megabyte gigabyte card is not a real SD
card so it's best to just spend more
money and go with a brand you know and
trust
absolutely Kingston yeah exactly like I
said look for the brand in this
particular case because we're looking at
SD cards yeah yeah we're looking at
Kingston we're looking at sandwich we're
looking at Samsung and and even then
they they can be rebranded too right so
it's a danger so you know how do you
possibly know if you're safe it's like
you've got to buy from legitimate
sellers watch out for that price because
if it seems too good to be true maybe it
is and this isn't just SD cards but this
is a good example we really need to be
careful what we buy we ran into it on
the news right there was a was it a fire
a smoke detector monoxide detector yeah
right and I mean really in truth if the
test button if you press the test button
test button makes a noise you think oh
this thing works yeah because you
wouldn't hold it up to something with
carbon monoxide spewing out of it to see
if it would go and now you think you
would but who would yeah
has ever created a fandangled carbon
monoxide box to hook up to the exhaust
pipe of their car bought a new carbon
monoxide you press the test button you
see okay it's making a noise you plug it
into your wall and Bob's your uncle
right except dad's exhaust they're fake
exactly H was the case again on Amazon
exactly on ebay on various other sites
that we're selling that product yeah so
I hope that through this that you
understand that we need to be smart
consumers we need to be careful where
we're purchasing from the products that
we're buying and certainly if you're
going to be shooting something like in a
case of like a wedding or shooting
something like that I always have
multiple SD cards handy and I always
test them first I will actually you know
what here's a good test for you put it
in your camera and push record and let
it run for four hours see what happens
if you're not sure like if you got an SD
card and maybe you've got a couple on
hand and you're I don't even know maybe
one of these is fake why not just run it
through a record process for as long as
you will ever need to so just fill it
right up yeah and and then watch back
the video and just skim it over and just
make sure that everything's good and
then you'll know whether or not that
card is is good and there are other you
know smart ways to test it using dde and
things like that but not very intuitive
from a user standpoint so you know what
plug it into your camera press record
let it record for as long as it can hold
and then check it back and see before
you actually need that card when you're
not it's good thank you
we do have to take one more quick break
and then when we come back we've got
viewer questions and comments yay coming
right up
[Applause]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV sascha
we've got lots of viewer questions
comments to cover tonight last week we
tried to get through the list and
tonight you notice we're really trying
to rock it out because we want to get
through these tonight and especially
with Jeff not here you know taking up
all our time with his banter I know we
can do this I think we can make it
happen
ok so Jay JG electus spotted our review
of the power locusts headphones and says
bought them a month ago and for 35 euros
it will be almost impossible to find
anything better they sound good for
movies also
that's called a you remember the power
locusts headphones that we reviewed here
on category 5 TV they are bluetooth
wireless 4.2 EDR headphones yeah but
they also have an FM radio which I don't
know if anyone really cares about
anymore but nice feature I guess but it
has an SD card reader in it which is
perfect make sure you buy legitimate
desk okay speaking of so you load it up
with mp3 files pop that in your
headphone and then you're not having to
use your phone right which is important
for things like on an airplane weren't
some some airlines are not allowed to
use devices like straight up it's like
ask your attendant if you can yeah well
that's perfect you know where I thought
you and we've made
that comment you made that comment
before and and I thought that's that's a
great a great example but then it hit me
when I was jogging that I don't want my
phone on my hip
right I don't want my bluetooth
headphones connecting to my phone while
I'm trying to jog and this thing
slapping me in the hip right so now with
these I just load up the the mp3s
but it also saves me on data because
when I'm jogging I don't get I don't I
don't have to use my data to listen to
music right so it also saves me money I
like it yes very very good SBS 5130 saw
a review of the Edifier r12 ATT speakers
Jeff and I did this review that was a
lot of fun how do you review speakers
right but they were incredible you gotta
check those out
they say impressive product for the
money but I wondered about the brand so
according to Wikipedia Edifier is a
Chinese company founded over 20 years
ago they quickly grew to dominance in
their domestic market fun fact
they acquired Stax in 2011 well what do
you know
so now now you know thanks for the
thanks for the info SBS 5130 I love the
Edifier line of speakers I really
legitimately do that's they look good
they sound great and and I guess with a
20-plus year old company they've got
some you know exactly you know you're
getting a good quality product
mm-hmm yeah oh I'm not going to do well
with your name let's see Joe Cuttino
cooler took us pretty close let's see
take a look at flex PI dot-com and
wonders what's up if my files which are
encoded what's up with my files which
are encoded h.265 Raspberry Pi supports
that format note that I'm not mentioning
format conversion h.265 runs in a
Raspberry Pi question there's all
question marks all right so the question
if my files which I think I understand
what you're asking here and is it Hal
I don't know something we'll call you
Joe can we call you Joe no we can't now
so h.265 so you're using Plex PI comm
which is my build for Raspberry Pi to
allow you to run Plex on a Raspberry Pi
microcomputer right so you plug all your
videos into that and then you stream
them to all your devices but if you've
got videos that are encoded in h.265
format now that is a compression format
that is a much smaller file but it is at
the compromise that it uses a lot of CPU
power to decode it so if you encode your
files in h.264 h.265 format it will take
a lot of CPU to decode so on a Raspberry
Pi h.265 would not be recommended plain
and simple because you don't have a very
powerful CPU so with that being the case
if you tried to stream h.265 video it's
probably gonna stutter mm-hmm and that's
because it's trying to decode the video
in real time right the CPU on a
Raspberry Pi is pretty small I mean it's
not really meant for that we're pushing
on table 4 ready yeah so you might try
Rhian coding your files to h.264 or some
other format that is not as CPU
intensive as h.265 do a little bit of
research see what's going to work the
best you might play with different
containers to see what what is going to
work well for your environment and get
into like Raspberry Pi forums and start
asking around about you know what
formats play really really well on a
Raspberry Pi and then you'll know and
really what it boils down to is finding
codecs and in containers that do not
require a lot of CPU power in order to
playback so that again h.265 is a
smaller file right at the compromise
that you're using more CPU in order to
decode it ok so keep in mind if you go
with a file that doesn't take a lot of
CPU to decode it's probably going to be
a larger file so that
to create a difference yeah exactly so
so do keep that in mind you're gonna
need to use up more space for those
h.264 files good question
okay couple years back Kelsey and I did
a feature about how to rip our DVD
movies and it kind of comes back to Plex
Pi because now that we've got a plex
media server how do we get our movies on
to it so that we can actually watch them
from any device right start with DVDs
and we import them to our computer and
then put them on our Plex PI systems so
we did a video that has been doing
really really well it was called rip
copy protected DVDs for free with free
software for Windows 10 Mac OS 10 or
Linux and dalek dancer has some comments
do you want to read those certainly this
process worked to treat good to have an
explanation as to what we were doing
I tried wondershare and something else
that did not work on another note I was
thinking of transferring all my DVD
collection onto a hard drive what's the
best way of doing it since you didn't
mention this in the video also will you
still be able to keep everything from
the original DVD like the extras etc
appreciate your knowledge okay so two
questions there yeah in a comment first
of all the comment that hey this worked
excellent I'm so glad to hear that one
of the comments that we get on that
video a lot is hey you guys talk too
much that's where I point you out the
skimmer at the bottom and because
certainly you know there's a lot to
describe when it comes to that kind of
thing so I'm glad that it worked for you
and it's working for a lot of people and
it's helping a lot of people to be able
to figure it out how do you transfer
those videos now to a hard drive so I
like to have an organizational structure
that is quite organized so what I would
do and I'll bring up my computer here
for you just to kind of give you an idea
how I would do it so I'm gonna create a
folder here don't worry I'm gonna show
you my screen in just a second it's
creating it so I'm gonna just pretend
this is my drive so I'm gonna call this
my drive and now I'm gonna hop over here
for you so this is my drive so what I
like to do is I like to create a folder
on my external hard drive and I'm going
to call this
murder mysteries right and then I create
another folder and I call this sci-fi
and then and so on and so forth so for
every genre that I might ever want to
watch or rip so I do that kind of thing
okay so then once I've ripped my DVDs I
jump into the folder that's appropriate
so there's comedy and I simply paste it
in so I cut it from wherever the
destination is so if I saved it to my
desktop for example now I'm going to
paste it onto my external drive in that
folder and and then it keeps it kind of
organized in such a way that I can go
back to it easily and if it's a show
then I make sure I number it so if it's
like season 1 episode 3 I call it s01e02
and then the name of the episode or the
name of the show something like that and
then and so on so then when I'm
organizing things by title sorting them
by title it's going to show them in
order for me so that it's easier for me
now to find s01e02 watch it just by
double-clicking it on my laptop or
something like that and sorry Sasha what
was the second question there the last
question the second question is will you
the original DVD like the extras ok so I
know this isn't your question but the
question has come up can you keep can
the question and what that brings to
mind is the question that we've had
quite a bit which is does it cause any
damage or make any changes to the DVD
itself the physical DVD DVDs that you
buy that have videos on it are read-only
so what we're doing is we are ripping or
copying and and making a duplicate of
the data that's on that disk but we are
not changing the data on the physical
disk itself ok I know that's not your
question but it just kind of alludes to
that question as well so then yes right
then you could just have the extras
couldn't you can you have the extras
that's where I'm going with this I'm
like where am i ok I think then you
could write the extras are showing as
other videos within the DVD so you look
back at that video the tutorial and
you'll see that
we found the one that was like an hour
and a half long because we realized that
hey if it's an hour and a half long
it is the full length movie right the
disc but then you'll also see some other
videos that handbrake has detected that
are maybe 5 minutes long and 10 minutes
long and you can preview them within
handbrake to find out what they are push
play and see what they are and you'll
see that those are actually your extras
so then you can rip those using the
exact same process and and just give
them a name like extras or behind the
scenes or whatever it is that you want
to call it that keeps it organized for
you so absolutely you can keep those
things some DVDs will hide some content
Oh
sometimes you will not be able to find
that content it is possible certainly
that is often the case on DVDs that have
multiple videos on the single DVD you'll
find those in like bargain bins that
have like four movies on one DVD for
example yeah for some reason sometimes
some of the videos are hidden from the
file system in such a way that you can't
get them through the tradition I know
Garvey mentioned in the chat room about
the subtitles so you could rip those as
well yeah handbrake will actually rip
those as part of the video or you can
save them as external files like SRT
files and those files can then be used
in in future when you want to use the
the right yeah you're not stuck with
subtitles every time you watch it if you
don't want to if you embed them yes but
if you go with a container that supports
subtitling that you can turn on and off
or change the language of for example
m4v it would be a container that
supports that you can embed the the SRT
the the subtitle format within the video
in such a way that when you're playing
them back for example in VLC right
you'll see an option that you can change
under view I believe it is you can turn
the subtitles on or off and you can even
select the language of the subtitles if
it's supported by the video that's cool
too yeah and that can all be a part of
your rep as well that is a very good
question that's dialect answer thank you
for it
bang Kent I saw the same video and says
my fearful tasket loading my collection
of DVDs to the smallest possible way to
transport them to my retirement
destination in Asia has been answered I
have been battling in my mind what to do
my collection is large and a lot of
money invested since they first came out
my outlook was to sell them which I will
know will only bring a fraction of my
investment than buying only a fraction
of the main ones which I like and buying
them as new shipping them separate or
transfer with me which is cost
prohibitive this morning I began my
search for answers in this video was the
first I saw and the only one I needed to
see I followed the instructions exactly
as described and as I'm posting this
comment my very first attempt is
successfully converting to my laptop
while it is converting I will go out and
purchase an external hard drive to sell
to save them in one location since I am
sure the conversion is OK Roku I have
and I will see about Plex later that day
thanks you guys thank you guys so much
the cost zero dollars
I saw a cube video to do the same thing
which I played just after this video
finished but you must buy the cube and
more why these are my DVDs which I've
already paid for why should I pay more
for the privilege of storing them in a
different format keep the Yaak going I
learnt a few different tidbits from you
guys talking which helped me out I'm not
that advanced on computer stuff but if
your house is on fire or a loved one is
in cardiac arrest I know without
hesitation without what needs to be done
the heart is like a harddrive they don't
last forever enjoy life I love that this
guy appreciates the fact that we were
yakking it you know everybody's
different right and so that's that's
kind of part of it and that's the fun of
having a talk show we try to try to give
a little something for everyone and we
appreciate that comment that is a
wonderful wonderful point that you can
take your entire DVD collection right
put it on an external drive and bring it
with you as you travel that's perfect if
you have a vacation home well you can't
bring boxes and boxes on the plane it
just ain't gonna happen and
if you try to bring them in the car
you're probably gonna get hit with some
kind of importing taxes yeah yeah so
here you can put them all on a drive now
I guess there's the caveat that maybe if
somebody stopped you with that drive and
plugged it in they might think that you
have pirated videos so that could be a
problem I don't know how you would
address that perhaps take a picture of
all the DVDs laid out on your floor so
that your if it happened maybe have that
JPEG in the root folder and you could
say look these are my I took a picture
just to show that I actually own these
DVDs I'm not bootlegging I'm not
illegally transferring files or right
importing them to the country that kind
of thing right yes that's a that's a
first stretch for how far they would go
but of course you wouldn't want to get
stuck right yeah absolutely so there is
that so do keep that in mind that's I
think for sure that's a comment what a
great uplift in comments and I do enjoy
life thank you Cheers
all right caliber wants to know if you
can use more than one stream deck
connected to just one computer so we
looked at the stream deck a few weeks
ago this thing is awesome
can you guys see that I'm gonna I'm
gonna push a button on it to zoom in so
these are buttons that are associated
with our different camera shots and you
can see the picture of me there there's
a picture of Sasha and if I push it it
actually zooms in on Sasha and there's a
picture of me and I push that and it
zooms in on me but the question is can
you plug more than one of these into a
single computer to have multiple
different macros feel like you would
never need to but correct okay correct
and we showed this during the review
reason I say that is because like if I
click on Wirecast and again this is it's
kind of tough to to show you but if I
click on Wirecast it takes me into the
Wirecast folder and I've got all these
buttons within the Wirecast folder and
then just for good measure to test I
create an another subfolder within the
Wirecast folder and it takes me to
another folder and then I created
another subfolder within that
or did I yeah I did and that's actually
taking me into another and yet another
and then there's another button right
there so you can create subfolders
within subfolders within subfolders
within subfolders so do you need to have
multiple devices connected to one system
that's for you to answer can you plug
multiple into one system and while I
don't have one to test with Sasha I
would say that the answer is most likely
no right and the reason for that is as
soon as I connect this stream deck to my
computer and as soon as I bring up my
broadcast suite which is Telestream
Wirecast
it automatically loads the profile for
wire cast which I created and I told it
to do that right but then if I plugged
in a second stream deck it would
automatically load the profile for
Telestream wire cast right so then if I
say oh well I want to change the profile
so then I change it to a different
profile it's going to change both of
them because they're both stream decks
on that computer so right I don't think
it's going to work I don't have proof of
my answer because I do not have a second
unit but that's that's my theory anyways
it's a program that's running on the
computer and there is no option within
that can that program to support
multiple devices that's all there you go
thank you everybody for sending in your
questions comments we always appreciate
it we love it and we hope that you enjoy
it when we bring them to you as well and
hopefully we're able to answer some of
your questions
tonight's was a lot of comments a lot of
great comments yeah fewer questions and
comments like that's my favorite episode
yeah absolutely so every time we do a
show folks she says what we're doing
here it's right is my favorite every
song I listen to is my favorite song
next week we're looking at single board
computers and I guarantee I love that
her favorite yay basically this is just
your favorite show this is my favorite
right exactly right and speaking of
favorite shows it's time to jump over to
the newsroom after rickman this is my
favorite part of the show is
your favorite part because it's all you
and I just kind of stand over here and
switch everything over to you right okay
but you control the yes yeah I can take
care of that for you for sure here's
what's coming up in the category five TV
newsroom hackers are now turning to
in-store kiosks to have your SIM card
swapped so that they can access
two-factor authentication on your
accounts a security plug-in for the
firefox browser is under fire after
users discovered it was collecting and
uploading their online activity linux a
4.18 is now available after a number of
well-documented hiccups and you're not
the only one of feeling rundown by the
news of the day the folks at Google
apparently believe we could all use a
dose of good news at times - the company
has announced it is testing a new Google
assistant feature called
tell me something good that will allow
users to hear a summary of more
uplifting news stories stick around the
full details are coming up later in the
show
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand new beautiful website what are you
you're terrible actor what does where
acting comes into play you're supposed
to act okay are you building a really
cool website are you building a really
cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap 5 dot TV / dream host to sign
up for unlimited web hosting for your
website with unlimited email accounts
MySQL databases the latest version of
PHP WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat 5 dot TV / dream host
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
with a slight linux bias
I'm Sasha Rickman and here are the top
stories were following this week
a Bitcoin investor is suing AT&amp;T for 240
million dollars after it allegedly
ported his his phone number to a hacker
allowing the criminal to steal 224
million dollars in cryptocurrency
Michael Turpin is suing the phone giant
for the value of the 3 million
electronic coins plus 216 million
dollars in punitive damages after he
claims an AT&amp;T employee at a store in
Connecticut agreed in person to transfer
his personal phone number to a new SIM
card despite the account having a high
risk protection following an earlier
hacking effort the anonymous hacker then
used his access to terpenes phone phone
number to bypass security on his
cryptocurrency accounts
thanks to 2 factor authentication sent
by text and transferred millions of
dollars to a different account an
approach known as sim swap fraud Turpin
claims AT&amp;T admitted to him that the
employee in question agreed to shift the
SIM card despite the security
requirement that they ask for a valid
form of ID and having ignored an
additional VIP requirements that they
provide a special six digit passcode
before changes are allowed on the
account that six digit extra security
stuff was introduced after turpan says
his account had been targeted and hacked
six months earlier through the same
approach that time he says a hacker made
no less than an eleven in-store attempts
to steal his SIM information before
finally succeeding on both occasions the
first turpan knew of the hack was when
his phone went dead the second time he
says he knew instantly Oh what had
happened and immediately tried to
contact AT&amp;T to shut the phone down but
it was stymied by the fact that it was a
Sunday and a TNT's fraud Department
apparently does not work on Sundays by
the time he regained access 23 point
eight million dollars in Bitcoin had
gone missing by failing to follow
procedures and giving the extra security
on his accounts Turpin claims that AT&amp;T
had broken
multiple Lauzon lists no less than 16
claims for relief ranging from
negligence to breach of contract to
insufficient security and providing on
lawful access to personal information
AT&amp;T for its part has promised to fight
the lawsuit a representative said we
disputes these allegations and look
forward to presenting our case in courts
come on now AT&amp;T has a lot of money so
if they're ok they're fighting in court
this poor Turpin guy is gonna be out all
of his millions of Bitcoin we got a big
problem here in this world right now
because a company like AT&amp;T may not look
at cryptocurrency as a commodity right
so you know you should have protected
yourself there are so many problems with
this now first of all we're giving the
benefit of the doubt to the person who
has had this happen to him right of
course it in itself could be fraud right
that's saying oh somebody stole my SIM
card and blah blah blah
that could be fraud but we're giving him
the benefit of the doubt and saying okay
well let's pretend let's just say that
the news story is correct and this
actually happened in the way that he
described which could happen then we've
got a few problems with AT&amp;T first of
all we know that their staff those who
are working at the kiosks are not
necessarily trained in anti fraud right
and if that's the case why are there not
things in place that say okay this
person is subscribed to our ultimate
security package right nobody absolutely
nobody who works for us is able to make
any changes to that account without true
authentication first of all we know that
the ID is a factor yes so think about
that hold that in the back of your mind
for a moment but why is an employee able
to circumvent the requirement that is
put in place think about that for a
moment guys
so we live in a world of entitlement
people are entitled and they feel
entitled and staff are taught that the
customer's always right
okay so in in in this world we also live
in a world that is very well-versed at
how to use social engineering in order
to control those who are on the
receiving end so social engineering is
able to trick the victim into providing
something that is giving that person
information that can be used to then
trick the employee into believing that
they are the person right right social
engineering can also be used on the
flipside with the AT&amp;T employee
remembering that we live in a world of
entitlement and we live in a world where
AT&amp;T employees are taught the customers
right right and I walk in it my phone's
been stolen I need you to cancel that
SIM card immediately I don't have my
wallet like come on like let's make this
happen like this has to happen now I I'm
right okay sorry sir okay let's see what
okay let me see let me see how I can
help right the employee is a victim as
well all right yes so AT&amp;T the company
obviously doesn't have something in
place that an access denied
right I'm sorry sir I'm trying to
override it but but I can't there the
message on my screen says first of all
now it had I as the AT&amp;T employee had
training in anti fraud I'd say okay hold
on one second sir I'm just gonna pick up
the phone and I'm just gonna call the
number for this phone okay I'm gonna
okay I've got an answer hello
okay what's the answer to your security
question okay the guys standing here
before me didn't know that answer what's
this and that right
right okay there's something going on
here I need to push that button under
the desk that's had I had anti fraud for
training I would have known to do that
that's obviously that doesn't sound like
the case here so but had AT&amp;T had
something in place that says no you're
not allowed to override this it's not
possible for the staff member who could
also be in on it right to override this
then it never could have happened so
AT&amp;T is liable don't kid yourself right
they certainly are
but is it true that they also don't have
fraud prevention on 24/7 my dad seems I
mean recipe because you've said
everybody's weird yeah right in a world
where fraud can happen at any point in
the day I think when it comes down to is
like kiosks and stores are extensions of
the actual company when when you go in
and you order a service they pick up the
phone and they dial in to the head
office and they order that service on
your behalf and set it up with with head
office and really they're just an
extension or a third party in a way
right so they should not have the power
to do what they did they should have
better training when it comes to
anti-fraud but that's not an end-all
be-all because you could still have a
malicious party working for you right
they should have something in place that
says no there is a process this person
had the ultimate security package and
yet the process could be overridden by a
minion if you will somebody who works at
the kiosk in the mall ah how is that
possible there is a definite failure
there on AT&amp;T s permanent turf in you
have a fight to fight but you're gonna
win regardless I mean I'm i regardless
of being on his side or not on his side
it's the company needs to realize that
this cannot happen this cannot be
possible to happen mmm taking it to a
case completely away from the 18c side
had I realized that my phone which I use
for two-factor authentication was
Singh or had gone dead right his first
step should not have been to call AT&amp;T
absolutely not absolutely not he should
have been logging into all of his
services no I guess he couldn't
two-factor authentication wouldn't allow
him to log into a service right
hopefully those services would have a
way to know the PI install ESET mobile
security which has anti-theft that
wouldn't work either if your phone was
stolen it would ah this is a real dilly
so that it all comes down to AT&amp;T
there's nothing have done better that's
a a heartbreak a security plug-in for
the Firefox browser is under fire after
uploading their online activity the
outcry began after Mozilla featured the
web security extension on its blog with
a post title to make your Firefox
browser a privacy superpower the plugin
developed by german company creative
software solution bills itself as a tool
for blocking malicious pages and
phishing sites it also allegedly logs
what web pages the user visits shortly
after the post went up you block origin
developer Raymond Hill noticed that the
plug-in was gathering and transmitting
the address of visited websites to a
server in Germany word got back to
Mozilla and the org moved to strike the
link to web security from its blog and
investigate the matter the reference to
the extension has been removed from the
blog post as part of the investigative
process the developer of the plugin
creative software solutions Managing
Director Fabien Simon says that the
collection of browsing information is
only done to check a site against web
Security's global blacklist he says his
company does not know why Mozilla pulled
the link to web security but creative
plans to submit an updated version of
the extension for a review to prove that
it is not doing anything untoward
untoward or not you're not doing it
right well that makes me indignant
okay so this this is obviously not how
security should work but I don't exactly
know the answer of how sure I mean
obviously don't collect your house and
send it rashes checksums
right you know like the the information
that I'm entering into my browser should
not be transmitted in any form that's
readable by a server so they're saying
okay if you visit a web site your
computer now needs to notify our server
of that web site that you're visiting so
that we can then send a response whether
or not it's compromised or safe mm-hmm
right that would be the theory right so
that's what they're saying okay well
your computer has to send us that
website address so that we can then
respond that's a good thing yeah
no no if you've got a blacklist so if
the if the service provider has a
blacklist they can have checksums
so they create an algorithm write an
algorithm that creates check sums for
those web domains that it knows are bad
right okay and then your computer the
plug-in creates a checksum based on the
the site that you're visiting and
compares checksums
right and in such a way that you're not
even sending the checksum to that host
server because then they can reverse
engineer the checksum that you sent and
see where you've been which yeah it's
your private activity you should not
have to send it anywhere I I run NEMS
Linux as we all know and one of the one
of the issues that I ran into yeah not
an issue one of the challenges that I
faced because my users wanted to have
encrypted off-site backup service
off-site backup services what they
wanted I knew it had to be encrypted
because I didn't want anyone being able
to steal their data right but I also
don't personally want access to their
data how do I do that I want them to be
able to access their data but I do not
want access to their data if I decided
to go row
and access this data I don't want to be
able to do that right right that's how
good programming is done so without
getting into the intricacies of NEMS
off-site backup service the checksum is
created on their server and the checksum
is shared with our server the encryption
is created on their server the
decryption key is not shared with our
server right so my server now has the
checksum which it associates with the
user account so I do have an association
and I can cross check whether it's a
website address or a user's account
information they're associated right but
the files the data the information is
not accessible so get a checksum upload
it to the server for the plug-in the
server says ok this checksum matches
this send it back right now my computer
gets that checksum response and decrypts
it using the key that is only available
on my computer and not on the hosting
server so there are all kinds of ways to
do this without sending information
that's private and we live in a world
where there's technology that's way
beyond me I'm basic by the terms of
what's available out there
so this creative security solutions
company is just kind of kindergarten in
their approach because they believe what
they're doing is right that's why
they're saying just show you another one
and you'll see that we didn't really
mean anything by it right so they don't
mean malicious Ness in their actions but
it's not it's it's their intent is yeah
their intentions are pure I was their
program their programmatic approach to
security is as moot right so Firefox
just trusted this and threw it up on the
unfortunately yes yeah which can happen
right I mean we're looking at you know a
plug-in repository and hey here's a
cool-looking plug-in let's feature it
let's talk about it right somebody could
feature names Linux and they don't know
the inner workings of
underlying code of how it works somebody
says to me why is it touching github
every five minutes and so somebody would
say well why is it touching github every
five minutes
so I explained we use github for our
update system and so your system
actually checks with github whether or
not it's responding if it's not
responding it doesn't do any updates if
it is responding you get your updates
right but it has to check but thank
goodness there are people out there
there are absent these questions doesn't
send any information right keep that in
mind so there are people out there
checking hopefully everything always
that's it but not always the case open
source is the way to go
exactly yeah you got more for me I do
have more for you yes yes after a number
of well-documented hiccups Oh Linux a
4.18 is now available the release
includes a raft of new toys including
support for the snapdragon 845 chipset
found in high-end mobile phones and a
small number of Windows 10 laptops the
inclusion should mean that the normal
all wipe that and install Linux comet
that follows many a hardware review can
now be applied to Microsoft's latest and
greatest arm-based devices two other
notable enhancements include support for
the raspberry pi 3 v + 3 b+ computers
along with some early work on in
upcoming AMD and intel graphics chipsets
in the form of vega 20 and ice lake 11
chips respectfully the the gift that
keeps on giving Spectre also gets some
attention with mitigations for the v4
variants on 64-bit arm architectures and
v1 v2 mitigations on aging 32-bit arm
hardware other hardware such as USB 3.2
and type C also see improvements plus
new support for a wider array of sound
chips
I don't know how Elena's does it I mean
come on
yay so Linux of course is an alternate
to Windows Linux the kernel which is
what we're talking about here with 4.18
is taking Linux to the next level and
making it so that it's available on more
platforms always having open source
wins again and the community for Linux
itself is
huge and people find ways to make it
work better make it work on other
architectures make it work on new
platforms and they patch Linux as kernel
and then leanest Torvalds he looks at it
reviews the code and approves the the
pull requests and releases the the final
product and so it's a real collaborative
effort and it's what we're using yeah
works great good community yeah love it
you're not the only one feeling rundown
by the news of the day the folks at
Google apparently believe we could all
use a dose of good news at times too the
company has announced it is testing a
new Google assistant feature called tell
me something good that will allow users
to hear a summary of more uplifting news
stories Google says the stories will
focus on people who are solving problems
for our communities and our world to
activate the feature assistant users in
the US can say hey Google tell me
something good to kick off the daily
briefing of happy stories Google offers
some examples of what the good news may
include like a story about how Georgia
State University stopped students from
slipping through the cracks or how
backyard beekeepers in East Detroit are
bringing back the dwindling bee
population or how Iceland curbed teen
drinking the stories are selected and
summarized by the nonpartisan nonprofit
solutions journalism Network an
organization that helps train
journalists to better cover how people
are responding to problems and how those
actions can have positive results the
stories themselves meanwhile will be
chosen from a wide range of media
outlets Google acknowledges this feature
won't be some sort of magic bullet but
the company says it's an experiment
worth trying because it's good info
about good work that may bring some good
to your day the Google assistant feature
works on any assistance enabled devices
including mobile phones smart displays
or Google home devices but I understand
it's only in America turns out it's only
in America so I read this write an
America you need good news today so I
get in my car which I hook up to my
phone and then I have Google everything
right and so I asked my car I just press
a little button I'm like
tell me something good and it's said to
me I'm sorry something good does not
exist in your area dad give it a try on
your phone see how it see how it works I
think it's a great concept yeah and it
kind of plays into remember how Facebook
was manipulating people right so that's
the dark side of this where they're
posting specific stories to manipulate
the global mood right we're here it's a
choice
- hey you know what I want I don't want
to hear what media is giving me I want
to hear what is uplifting I'm gonna hear
what's good okay you have a lot of good
folks so here's a I might I you may have
noticed ma you know glass half-full sort
of person I don't like to watch the news
in the morning because and I understand
that tragedies do need to be reported
upon but I don't want to start the day
thinking about all of the ills of this
world I want to help everyone I don't I
don't not care about you
I just I'm drinking my coffee and I want
to be lifted right I need this good news
thing to work now there needs to be
balance I think is what it comes down to
like we need information but we live in
such an information overload right now
and when that information overload is
skewed toward the negative because
that's what sells news news had space I
don't know what cell what's the phrase
now you can't say sells newspapers
that's nothing sells newspapers anymore
sells attention I don't know what makes
you click on the website there you go
yeah when it's we need balance it's true
because if you were to just randomly
pull people out there after watching
regular news or listening to regular
news they would probably give you a
pretty negative pretty glum outlook on
the world and that affects our mood I
mean if you if you have a bad start to
your day yeah it's not true there are so
many good people out there I mean I even
I had a patient call me I work at a
chiropractic
and she said I'm gonna be late for my
appointment I can't even get out of bed
but don't worry my neighbor is gonna
come over and help me get off I will be
there that is newsworthy right it's
newsworthy that somebody out there came
over to someone else's house and helped
them
I think because it's so rarely reported
on and it happens all the time or at
least give us something that motivates
us right to want to be that person
exactly you know cuz when I start the
day and I turn on the news give me the
news but give me a little positive peace
that's going to uplift me yeah I know
it's it sounds cliche and cheesy but I
think but you can tell the same news
story in a positive way right so for
example the beekeepers in Detroit right
you could have a news story that says
bad the bees are dying which is sad and
true but you could do that or you could
say listen the bees are getting a
helping hand and a chance at life
because there's these people who are
fighting against the the bat and so then
by taking that good news approach do you
think people would say oh wonder if I
could do that right that sounds like
something I could do exactly here in
Barry if I could have a bee hive how
hard could it be
yeah but I'm so big thanks to Roy W Nash
in our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson
it's been great having you here this
week and look forward to seeing you
again same time next week that's right
take care everybody
