last week we looked at Debian 9 Debian
stretch right really really excited
about this release because it's the
latest and greatest stable version of
the Debian Linux distribution the
response has been fantastic on YouTube
thank you very much for all your
comments your thumbs up and your new
subscriptions we love hearing from all
of the viewers who have been saying hey
I really love this show love what you
guys are doing
I appreciate that we all do and one
question in particular stood out to us
this week maybe you can take that for us
I can take it okay oh except the blue is
not there so I don't know who way
somebody watched last week's episode I'm
going to get it okay can you believe
that the blue ink went out of my printer
and your name happened to be in a blue
I'm guessing dark garbage no no it's not
Garvey see maybe to see see who is that
see it looks like it ends in a one all
right oh I was ready cam hen one if your
question the man I'm serious blue ink
gone on the fridge know what you would
know that because I said so to the CNN
to the one you already knew it with you
guys landed me it's gotta be me it
would've been great if we were like it's
Charles eleven okay so tell me again
it's camp camp in one and before we move
on just making sure just skimming making
sure there's nothing else typed in blue
very good alright whatever
watch last week's feature on Debbie and
nine and said I'm really enjoying this
channel why don't you guys have more
subs can you do can you guys do a video
comparing different desktop environments
I think it would be an interesting video
it will be alright
desktop environments we hit on it a
little bit last week and hitting the
that first question why don't we have
more subs hey get the word out spread
the word about Linux tech show spread
the word about category-five technology
TV and that's how we build it a lot of
you know a lot of youtubers will buy
subscribers and we don't we don't play
that so
so we appreciate each and every one of
our subscribers our supporters click
that subscribe button if you've been
watching the show maybe you've been
watching for some time and you haven't
subscribed maybe you don't even have a
youtube account so you just haven't
gotten around to it make sure you sign
up and then hit that subscribe button
and that really that helps increase
those numbers I am and one can go wow
look at how things have really been
taking off around here I did it it was
easy so you can do it TV thanks ok so
hitting the question we talked about
desktop environments what it means to
the Linux user what's funny is I thought
we had already done something like this
because a while back we were comparing
what I thought was linux desktops in my
mind and it was not the next we were
looking at various Linux distros I am
pairing Debian - boom - and and so along
with that comes yeah well we're looking
at gnome 3 vs. unity sure and so on and
so forth but here's what what it comes
down to Linux is as we learned last week
on episode number 509 of category 5
technology TV Linux is the operating
system and then on top of that the
developers the people who put everything
together choose which packages to
include with the operating system so
that can be you know do we go with
LibreOffice as the office suite do we go
with GNU image manipulation program what
do we include with this and with that
comes what do we use as our desktop
environment de as it's called so that's
what makes a distro is all of the stuff
that they've packaged together into this
particular version of Linux so Debian is
a distro of Linux Ubuntu is a distro of
Linux as well as Fedora and open SUSE
and any of the other ones that you've
ever heard of they're all different
distros of Linux so different packages
all thrown on top of Linux so the
desktop environment is probably
one of the key considerations when it
comes to what makes a distro look and
operate the way that it is hmm but that
said because Linux is the the way that
it's set up you can have multiple
desktop environments installed and
switch between them without ever leaving
the operating system no yeah so during
our Debian stretch installation last
week I simply checked off all the
options so it has all of the available
options in in Debian and let's I'm going
to pull it up on the neck here so that I
can kind of see and show you will just
log out to the login screen oh you know
what the netbook doesn't have it all so
my dad my laptop here does so let's
first take a look at what's called
cinnamon and as I'm saying the the
desktop environment is what you see so
this is the the way that your operating
system performs how you interact with it
where your menus are how you open things
how you navigate the entire operating
system that's what the desktop
environment is mm-hmm
okay so I touched on this last week when
I said if you don't like the way that
you know files open or you can't figure
out this or that with the way the
operating system interacts with you with
your mouse it's probably the desktop
environment quite likely okay so you can
switch it to the one that you would like
to choose the foo says cover the dangers
of mixing different desktop environments
under a single user login so there is a
danger of that I wouldn't call it a
danger if you have a small hard drive
then these are considerations but when
you install a desktop environment it
comes with a lot of packages that make
that desktop environment what it is okay
so one desktop environment will include
a whole plethora of applications and
things that this desktop environment
uses to make it what it is okay then you
install another one and you get all the
same kind of stuff
added to it added to your computer but
for the other desktop I think so it's
just kind of read that might be
alternate versions you may have some
redundant software you may have multiple
versions of different things that are
similar I don't you know I don't know
all of the applications that are out
there but just to throw at a really
simple example maybe one uses OpenOffice
where the other one uses LibreOffice so
if you install both desktop environments
you now have both and sometimes you can
have a conflict they're usually apt on
Debian in particular and boon to other
Debian derivatives it's able to
reconcile those dependencies the
conflicts between them and and it just
means having extra stuff on your hard
drive that maybe you don't need if if
you're only going to use one particular
okay it's a fun experiment though to
throw them all on there and see what one
you like the most
that's what we're going to do here
tonight so that you get a sense of the
difference so this is the default one
fashion is that cinnamon that isn't
cinnamon yeah so you know right out the
bat what I do like about it is from a
Linux partly from a Windows user
standpoint the navigation right out the
gate has a bit of a Windows 10 feel
without all the clutter right right
we've talked about how not the crazy big
tiles yeah we don't have the crazy big I
actually have the super I hate those I
hate them too okay everyone who brings
in a computer for service that has been
upgraded to Windows 10 so can you get
that right everything is your way to get
that awesome classic shell and we
actually have a video about it on our
website
Larry five.com we did it on Windows 8 to
show you how to get rid of it but
classic shell works great on on Windows
10 as well but you could just take it
one step further and install Linux with
cinnamon how do you like that ok so
we're going to take the same approach to
each desktop environment I'm switching
back and forth we're going to look at a
few of the different things that we
would commonly do with the computer like
creating a document navigating to our
files getting on the Internet let's get
started
with cinnamon okay so first of all what
do we want to do create a document so
here I see office so I'm going to I'm
going to play like I don't know I'm
going to play like I'm a novice user an
end user who's never done this but I
understand the LibreOffice writer is my
writing application see at the bottom
there even when I hover cinnamon says
create and edit text and images in
letters reports documents and web pages
so I know that that's what it is if I
point to calc it says perform
calculations analyze information and
manage lists in spreadsheets
that's like except Excel right yeah so
what would happen if I actually typed in
Excel look at that so even as a Windows
user I'm able to find the Excel
equivalent let's try Word LibreOffice
writer is in the left so let's use the
Excel example and click on it and now
I'm creating a spreadsheet just like I
would expect to so that was a pretty
good experience for a first try at
getting into a spreadsheet or a document
worked out pretty well so you could even
type like if you had a document saved on
your computer you could type the name of
the document in that search bar and it
would pull out that I don't know I don't
know this an application searches oh
yeah in my life okay well let's get to
that when we actually have created some
documents but let's let's make one so
we're going to go word just because I
want to pretend like I'm a Windows user
trying to learn Linux and let's create a
document and just hello world and I'm
going to save this so save as and my
friends use Microsoft Office so I'm
going to actually select to use a docx
file so that it's compatible they can
use it as well
and I'm going to call this hello world
test do they have to if they're using
like word did they have to save as a
docx for me to be able to open it and
Lindos I just have to save it as a docx
to be a friendly neighbor to them
because theirs is dumb yeah yours is
clever okay good so
okay as long as you're going in that
direction as long as you save it as a
file format that they can access okay so
in our case it's asking are you sure
ODF is a little better I'm going to say
no I actually want to use Microsoft Word
format because that's what my friends
use in the office okay
close that hello world so this is an
application search search Sasha not a
document search so you notice that your
document is not coming up anywhere in
that okay let's see if there is a search
there is one called desktop search hello
world do you search on Windows I have
never used search ever in my life
okay files oh really yeah but what I do
use is I want to be able to find like a
computer my computer or folders access
right I never know where I document save
anything so I just search you just
search yeah okay well let's take a
different approach let's see if we can
find our way to the files now there's an
icon here that there's an icon here that
looks like a file folder okay I'm
automatically thinking I'm going to
point to that and it says files if it
opens a list of recently saved files and
that wasn't enough for me
there is a list of folders documents
sounds about right yeah and there's my
hello world now let's go back one and
push the search button here and I'm
going to type in hello world there it is
okay see that's the route I would go
there's the search that you're looking
for right so okay that was pretty pretty
straightforward now when I click on that
regard me saying there's a tool called
launch e that searches files
you know Linux is fantastic because you
can add these little features here and
there and that's part of the excitement
of getting onto Linux as you can
customize things right and add features
and all that kind of stuff
the approach that we're taking today is
out-of-the-box experience house cinnamon
going to feel for a novice entry level
user and what is my first impression as
that novice user so my next step is I
need to get on the internet now I see
that there's an Internet button over
here on the start
menu or the menu or the applications
menu whatever we want to call it
I do see Firefox which I'm familiar with
so I'm going to click on that and go
into I don't know Google and it works
just out of the box very fact yeah so
I'm able to get on the internet and
that's fine we Sasha you would mention
you like to use things like a calculator
so let's see you know that was easy does
it do date conversion date conversion
like time zones no no okay so on my work
right I have to do care plans for
patients and it's like 13 weeks of three
times a week and I so I have to subtract
how many adjustments that they've had
for how many they're supposed to have
would that be like a feature of a
spreadsheet or something I've used a
calculator before before but I you can
just select dates convert like date
calculation I've never heard of such a
thing in it okay it calculates the
difference between two dates which is
perfect probably like four weeks yeah
three months can I can I just be
straight up real with you that nobody
else uses that no no I'm not saying that
but what I would do in a case like that
so what's the question like if how many
how many weeks between now and September
9th September 9 yeah I know I'm lazy but
it's just like we just live in such a
world that you know when there are ten
weeks until the ninth of September it's
like the answers are just everywhere now
what would be an example like years
since 1979 it's like every answer is
there I don't need to learn math anymore
I'm so darn lazy it's not lazy isn't it
now isn't it it's not you're good all
right okay so I need to have a calendar
a calendar yes okay so these are program
features of the operating system these
are things that are added like
application okay that's specific to the
desktop environment but
what is important is how would I find
that athlete yeah now that is it there
is it they're out of the box I don't
know so I'm just going to type in
calendar there it is oh I see a couple
there's calendar which is exactly what
you asked for there's evolution which as
we talked to the last week is like
Outlook it has a calendar built in but
let's just click on calendar and that
looks like a calendar that's kind of
cool actually I like that a lot
I'm kind of jealous I don't have that oh
yeah that one's better
nice and easy hey synchronize what does
that do this is what I'm wondering about
is Kenneth no but again this is an
application on debian 9 that came with
it so this is not part of the desktop
environment necessarily this is just
part of Linux so it will sync with an
online account nice so I could I could
do exchange I can do
Google Calendar how is that add an
online account so I'm even finding what
I need to get this thing up and going
pretty quick this is like that that's
what makes it for me all sorts of things
that are what makes being able to find
yeah I like that I'm having no trouble
finding applications here one of the big
things with Windows 8 and even into
Windows 10 is that it was really tough
for people to figure out how to actually
shut down their computer so you end up
closing your laptop and then realizing
that it's not shut down it's just in
suspend mode I haven't rebooted in 10
years and it's a big problem right so
how hard is it to shut down this system
in cinnamon that was easy
you want to shut down shut down and
we're done so cinnamon first impression
looks pretty darn good mm-hmm
pretty darn good indeed I'm going to log
out and then I'm going to check what the
next one the debian has for us is as we
look at Linux desktop environments as
introduced as brought included with
debian 9 okay so you guys can't see my
login screen when I'm changing this
let's hit LXDE because Sasha likes the
name of
like into that one when I would solid
pick oh yeah
OSCE is very very lightweight it was
built specifically to be a lightweight
and fast fast fast interface so it's not
going to be as robust as far as feature
set goes you notice that the it's a very
Windows 98
kind of interface but it is fast it is
lightweight it is perfect for things
like like a older computer it's just
quick and zippy nice and simple
getting on things again really
straightforward getting on the Internet
all I did was just point to Internet and
I see Firefox there so that's cool so
the background picture doesn't change we
can change the background picture so I
can imagine that they all would look
different I mean I guess they are like
not going yeah no no no this is Linux
the desktop environment is is using my
profile okay if I want to change my
background if the process may be a
little bit different for each one but on
this one if I right click and then see
if there it is wallpaper then I can
change my wallpaper just like that okay
so I mean a right-click on your desktop
and then preferences that's pretty
traditional yeah hmm
but you probably need to download some
nicer wallpaper in order to actually
make this to make this reasonable
there's the default and the ones that it
comes with are pretty much identical to
that so that was easy finding my office
suite under office there's my calc
so having swapped to the other desktop
environment you see that my file is
still there very cool and that calc
allowed me to open a writer document and
I'm not sure why it's separating see
when I maximize it's not actually
maximizing my screen
that could be you can tell me if you're
able to emulate that it could be our
video capture is causing a bit of a
strange behavior there okay so this
looks pretty straightforward pretty
simple so this is the basic LXDE I like
to run this on servers and that lets me
run without any overhead when it comes
to the desktop environment so I'm sorry
I was saying solo saying one test that
is relevant for this is what happens if
you plug in a USB device in each one try
that yes okay so I have a USB flash
drive here that has Debian install on it
so let's plug it in in LXDE what do you
want to do in calculator in Linux does
two days just saying oh yeah not not
that I'm saying it Dennis Kelly's taking
it nice ok so there you go I've never
heard of such a feature it's such an
important leader in my in my ever you
are you're going to teach this I'm gonna
do this on the next show all right so
that just brought up the w-9 USB stick
ok rectly no problem do do we want to
see what it looks like now let's see
what logging out and restarting and
shutting down looks like again shutdown
is really easy we've got reboot suspend
hibernate switch user lock screen if you
want you know to step away UDV okay so I
going to switch user which allows me to
switch environment ok and let's see what
the next one is do I get to pick the
next winner yeah absolutely no you want
go with gnome yeah ok ok so this is
gnome 3 now I'm going to have a little
bit of trouble seeing things because
gnome 3 we had some little troubles
there getting it to broadcast to you so
I'm watching it in a very small screen
here but that's what it looks like out
of the box so you'll notice first of all
that the activities button is up at the
top here and things a lot different so
first of all I always recognize the
Firefox icon so I can get on the
internet no problem
it does have evolution on there as well
which is like the outlook clone with
email and all that
it even has writer just already there
oh that's neat so good that's cool I
maximize the window okay on here oh it's
a little different I notice I don't have
like a maximize minimize button but I
can double click on the top bar in it
and it goes there so if I open I'm going
to see my hello world document it's
there no problem okay so the other
things that we want to be able to do and
that has a cool kind of effect to it
doesn't it looks kind of different so
how do we get into things like your
calendar application so I'm going to
type calendar this it has a really sweet
kind of look to it doesn't it yeah I'm
partial to this one yeah already yeah
okay so let's bring up calendar there
you go it looks really clean like the
decorations everything looks like it
yeah it's a uniform it looks really good
I like that
what about task switching so if I have
multiple tasks open I'm curious about
how gnome 3 handles this so if I hit alt
tab yeah I get a task okay good
if I hit the windows button and tab I
get a tabs a task switcher what about
things like I have anything else looks
like that's that's kind of it when I hit
my window button like the super button
it gives me that can you do that half
screen split thing where you do like the
windows button and then the left key or
the right key just to throw it to one
side I like to oh oh I see what you mean
like - yeah okay it actually operates
just like Microsoft Windows that way
that's a handy tip yeah I wonder if the
other desktop environments can do that
too but it is nice to see that gnome has
that so I can position things like that
right that's kind of cool and from there
I mean the the underlying OS is the same
so it's really just the environment it's
strictly how do I interact with the
computer and you can start to see that
and as the tutorial goes on as the
demonstration goes on like I don't need
to show you that I can get on Google
because ok we know we can it's already
in fact an exit Firefox on Linux it's
the same software it's really just how
do I
there that is different so how do I get
to my files I'm going to just tight I'm
going to try that file and there we go
we've got files right there there's my
file manager I do see the search button
there just like before so I can type in
hello world and there's my document
okay so just like you would expect
everything looks pretty good and then to
perform a system shutdown how would we
do that here so let's first of all look
under the activities menu because it is
an activity what does it have here show
applications oh there's a whole list of
all kinds of applications wholly not
organized the way that I like with the
other desktop environments that I saw
did you notice how they had like
internet and games and everything this
looks like a like we would call this a
cluster yeah this is just yet just a
mess of all my applications how is it or
is it organized alphabetically is there
a way of sorting easier or is it well I
got this novice user I don't see any way
to do that I don't see any like internet
there are some things I don't think I
need on there oh certainly there's a ton
of stuff there's maps on there I like
that okay so if you don't know the name
of the application or what it is you
want to do it might be a little
difficult for me to find my way here I'm
dragging with my mouse and it lets me
kind of slide that's kind of nice I
don't know what I just did though so if
you have a touchscreen that might be
kind of nice but again not not too keen
on the organization of it know what's
down here frequent or all applications
oh that's okay okay so I can see my
frequently run applications or all
applications
that's something but what I'd really
like to see is like an organizational
structure there and I still don't see a
shutdown so I'm going to look over here
and there's nothing that is obviously a
shutdown thing to me I'll start with
that Inlet it's like a little
notification window and again nothing
really
stands out as shut down but we recognize
that symbol right and if I push that it
gives me the power off option or restart
so so we can find our way there a little
bit a lot as super friendly but really
beautiful really gorgeous as a matter of
fact so I'm going to actually log out
here so that we can check out the next
one which is going to be KDE plasma how
do I get how do I get out seriously like
I just want to log out of my my system
here settings well there's my name log
out nice oh there you just said click
your username once you find your way I
not that difficult I like that one it is
kind of pretty yeah okay so let's get
over here I'm going to login let's see
what else we have so Debian nine Debian
stretch comes with the options to
install you can install one or many LXDE
cinnamon gnome matei open box plasma
plasma being KDE so we've already looked
at Matea on the show with a boon to
matei you're familiar with that it's
like the gnome to 22.5 look it's great
for experience linux users who like the
old feel of linux but we're going to
look at today plasma which we have not
yet looked at so let's get into that
let's see if I can get the screen up on
your screen here so far so good
a little slower to load mm-hmm maybe
because it's more powerful do you think
it's more powerful fashion you think
that's what it is slow and steady wins
the race
it can't seriously take that long to
load my favorite it seriously did so
immediately I'm like that took a long
time to load yes and here it is and
there it is it's up on the screen okay
let's take a look at what KDE plasma
looks like so there we go I've clicked
on the K because I just assumed that
that's what it is I'm curious what this
thing is show desktop add widgets ooh
that sounds fun
oh that's kind of cool whoa right out
the gate I can add a couple of them oh
yeah god I feel like every single one
I've seen is my favorite until I see the
next one and then it's not yeah this is
my case how do you do it just drag oh
nice oh cool
now I don't know how to move it it's not
where I wanted it oh and you touch it
there's a oh this I added two of them
nice when it's got the date remove this
one okay okay
desktop options uh so I don't know now I
have something to play with yeah now you
know the time-lock widgets lock widgets
unlock widgets No so that's something to
play with I do like that there's a kind
of a fun fun thing right of the gate you
can press and hold widgets to move them
and reveal their handles how did it know
what I was trying to do could see that
you were doing exactly what I do and
frantically just pressing everything
pressing it okay hold it in there we go
can you make it like a different size ah
when I say it once like that no yeah you
can oh my goodness
see we're figuring this out right on the
fly here okay so uh if your calculator
won a calculator widget so this is very
much like a like a phone interface you
have an idea
so there is a search here calc yes so
drag that onto the desktop so what is it
obviously isn't a working calculator at
that size can I make it full size what
if you make it bigger if it changes what
functions your tonight it's just like an
icon of a calculator okay which to me is
kind of it's like whoa I'm not know yeah
that's kind of a letdown
okay can I remove it all right so what
I've done is just hold in the button and
that lets me manipulate it okay so let's
get a look okay favorites I have none
yet but it thinks I like Conqueror
system settings file manager and
advanced text editor that's where we see
that this desktop environment has
defaulted to different applications I do
like the movement the animation the
fading the text editor is Kate which is
a KDE text editor versus maybe GE editor
pluma applications oh that see that's
what I like Sasha see in menus where I
can go internet and when I want to find
Firefox I'm not going to have any
trouble there it's actually called web
browser here with a little sub header
that says Firefox that makes sense to me
I like that works a tree good okay
so getting into our documents let's see
so this would be like a good
transitional for like all of those
people who only use their phones right
now true and now I have a touchscreen
yeah I clicked on computer and I would
expect it to bring it up at a dozen so I
assumed I have to go up here to home
then I have documents Oh gross sash it's
opening things with a single click Wow
so there's where the paradigm is just a
little bit different here every time I
single click it it does what I click on
searching I've got find hello world the
other ones had like it okay that that
was just slower I didn't hit Enter it
was slower to search than the other ones
were they were very very fast to just
show the results
I kind of had to sit and wait edit
single click in the system settings
so as the Edit the novice user I'm going
to guess that's under control because my
approach here is that you know we're new
let's say we're new to Linux and we want
to know you know how hard is this going
to be to change or to manipulate make it
the way that I want it because single
clicking to open stuff is garbage I
don't see anything there that lets me
change the way that it interacts but
there definitely is so that's all to say
you know Linux is you can change things
you can change the way that it interacts
but you may have to do some digging
configure no see I don't see anything in
there see how I do that alright so what
else do we want to be able to find out
here Sasha so you can see the difference
in in each of these different desktop
environments how it it almost feels like
a completely different a completely
different operating system doesn't it
mm-hmm and yet it's the same OS just a
different desktop environment that's it
different suite of applications that
come with each so now I want to shut
down there's one here called leave and
then I've got suspend hibernate shutdown
there we go
so we found our way around KDE plasma
pretty well as well yeah so you kind of
have to look at that and say ok well I'm
going to install Debian stretches Debian
org to download it absolutely free
choose which desktop environment you
really love or if you're indecisive you
can actually check off a couple of if
you want during the installation process
and set up each of those and you can
change them just by clicking the little
gear before you log in before you enter
your password and then even change back
and forth between them then pick your
favorite and run with it there you go
Linux is very configurable very
customizable and as you can see even
though that's the same computer the same
Linux running w-9 we're able to
completely change the paradigm
completely change the interface by
simply changing our desktop environment
[Music]
[Applause]
