it is time for part 10 of Sasha builds a
gaming PC today oh this is it this is it
this is the main unveiling well we are
actually gonna game yes
stage - 9 . co uk check it out
these folks are working really really
hard to recreate the Starship Enterprise
NCC 1701 D from the next generation now
so much effort has gone into this it's
using Unreal Engine 4 and it's literally
a tour of the Starship Enterprise now
we're using tonight we're on Linux and
we're using a pre-alpha release so that
means it's not even alpha yet it's not
even ready for primetime that we're
probably going to encounter some
glitches we're probably going to
encounter weird things that are going to
be fixed but it is it's so nice that
they're releasing versions that we can
give a try - first of all it works on
Linux Mac and Windows cool if you're a
Linux fan like us please get on over to
stage 9 co uk
make sure you reach out to rob there and
let them know that you are a big
supporter of stage 9 on linux because we
really want to see them always bringing
out versions for linux i know they're
going to do it but they need to know of
course that there is a Linux gaming
community as well and we want to see how
this goes so it's it's a game that we're
going to run on the gaming computer
rights but it's not quite a game yet
like we're not interacting with people
we're touring the Starship Enterprise
this is awesome you folks ready get into
the chatroom category 5 on freenode let
us know where you'd like us to go now
this is what they endeavor to do is
eventually this is going to be stage 9
is going to be a full tour of the
enterprise that you can walk through
that is true to the blueprints that is
true - attention to detail based on
episodes of the show so when you walk in
the rooms you know decor is what you
would expect it to be so this is a
really really exciting project
and before we get into it we do need to
say that it is a fan project it's
provided absolutely free it's not
endorsed by CBS Viacom or paramount and
all of the trademarks to do with Star
Trek are of course property of the
copyright holders so this and the
project itself are provided absolutely
free and both the project stage nine and
this broadcast our fan productions that
are provided with no monetary
compensation okay ready yes let's spin
the camera around and hop into the
holodeck so here we are are you ready to
take the tour chatroom tell us where you
want us to go first of all we're gonna
head on up to the main bridge let's see
if we can find our way here now of
course we're walking down a corridor on
NCC 1701 D jr. once this wants us to go
to rands quarters Rams quarters yeah
that's an option now here is now we're
in a turbo lift and the way that it is
working at this point is they've got
designations set up on kind of a
computer type screen because it needs to
make sense for us to be able to find
where we're going so up on deck 1 we've
got the main bridge let's head on up
there we want to see all the detail
that's gone into that and off we go
we're there
Oh anyone else feel that Wow this is
like my boy but boyhood fantasies right
here what does that tell you about me
all right let's get a little bit of a
walk around looking out here oh we've
got some destruction out there what have
we got
look at that folks just beautiful
attention to detail this is incredible
all right I'm going to show you before
we really get into kind of gameplay and
touring the enterprise let's look at
some of the options that we have here so
first of all we're on the gaming rig
that has been built on the course of 10
episodes so let's look at around low
quality setting so this is low up pardon
me I didn't hit okay that is not a
weakness there we go so that's our low
quality setting which is still pretty
fantastic but if you've got a poor fret
a frame rate you might you might need
that now of course Sasha this is the
gaming rig that you've built we're gonna
try epic
we're also going at full 1920 by 1080
resolution we've got everything just
cranked absolutely full I've turned down
the motion blur just a little bit
because I didn't want you to get dizzy
and I've turned up the gamma just for
the sake of your tvs because it makes it
a little easier to see things like the
Stars so now that I've done that now of
course there are some other things I can
turn on NPCs so if you want to see some
some folks on the bridge and throughout
the enterprise you can actually turn
them on they are not presently
interactive but they are kind of cool
but they can sometimes get in the way so
we're going to turn those guys off and
let's restart and take this right - what
you're going to see when you first
connect to stage 9 here we are in the
turbolift outside of the main bridge and
you'll see that when you restart it
actually resets a couple of the settings
I'm going to turn off MPC and we're
going to turn on animated L cars which
apparently has a performance hit because
of the way that it's done right now but
it performs well on your system sash
very cool all right so let's head on
over here we're gonna see what what was
out there originally before I did a
little bit of plan before the show look
at that
that's deep space nine folks so we know
where we are that must be beige or
that's what I was gonna say where's the
wormhole
okay so let's head up up here so you get
some of the interactivity that you would
from a game we can oh dear do I do it do
it do I do it no it should never happen
who is the Joker who made it so that the
only thing you can blow up is ds9 come
on should have been a Ferengi cruiser
out there or something
Romulans all right let's take a tour
folks the captain's ready room here you
look at that so you're watching category
five technology TV and tonight we are
actually taking a tour of NCC 1701 D
this is the enterprise from Star Trek
The Next Generation and it is powered by
stage 9 and you can get it it's a free
download at stage 9 dot coat UK there's
the captain's fish not yet animated it
looks like but cool again great
attention to detail
looks just like the show it's such an
incredible job on this alright folks
let's see where the turbolift can take
us all right so we've got deck 2 is the
starboard bow with data's quarters
wharfs quarters cargo elevator escape
pods and a crew lounge
we've got decks 6 min ship is the
transporter rooms the science lab deck 7
is the stern with the Arboretum deck 8
is the battle bridge and we've got
stellar cartography on deck 9 Captain
Picard's quarters on deck 8
the computer core look at all these a
six-page shuttle they - and the brig and
the cell store and the cell control
which is the warp engine control going
to give us some of you there main
engineering ten-forward
in holodecks we've already been to the
holodecks you know what I would love to
see main engineering that's somewhere
that the majority and data spent a lot
of time and just love so let's see what
we can find here now you'll see these
force fields throughout stage 9 and that
simply means that they haven't completed
that area yet so you can't go there just
cool nice way to do it and the corridors
just look absolutely incredible geology
lab and here we are ladies and gentlemen
main engineering of the Starship
Enterprise
it's stunning
[Music]
Wow you can hear it's incredible
no one else got goosebumps
it's rarely we get a chance to do this
kind of thing on category five
technology TV but being our Halloween
special hey it felt right there's
another turbolift over here now when a
door doesn't open it means that it's not
part of the network or it hasn't been
completed yet so you find the doors that
have been completed and eventually this
project is going to have an entire
representation of the Starship
Enterprise where would you like to go
let's go to the sickbay all right let's
check it out on deck 12
how much of your day today did you spend
to her and around me more like plugging
in cables and making sure things were
going to work okay so it looks like the
only way we can go is forward all right
now this again is true to the blueprints
of the enterprise so if you really
focused on episodes of Star Trek The
Next Generation you're really going to
have a sense that Wow they've they've
turned the the set into an actual
interactive environment just amazing
so here we are in sickbay folks let's
head on over to Beverly's office here we
are I think we can sit down if we
right-click yes there we go
no way
Unreal Engine 4 beautiful can't go down
there here we go we're gonna have the
weirdest dreams tonight the best dream
for two next let's check out now I'm
very interested in the Arboretum and
stellar cartography ok let's head on
over to the Arboretum which would be
kind of like a garden on the ship which
would be pretty cool a nice place to go
read a book or something
we are beautiful artificial sunlight now
I'm looking at this and I'm wondering
what kind of settings where currently oh
you weren't in at all my goodness
folks if you thought it was incredible
before now it's epic no it is truly epic
Wow
holy cow I want to like go back and
start over this is just gorgeous and I
was like that's beautiful anyways but
look at that oh wow it's very one of the
things that they do need to implement is
like saving of settings I think would be
quite helpful let's you know what can I
head back to main engineering just to
see what that looks like you know
certainly the code because that's kind
of a big deal
all right you'll learn your way around
okay now we've got all was that a lens
flare ha Wow
Sasha I thought this was impressive a
few moments ago when we were here now
look at this so if you've got the
horsepower folks we've got lighting
effects and blooms and things like that
see that just awesome Wow
all right let's let's take the tour keep
going make sure you in the chat room
Sasha and I are watching as best we can
to see where you'd like us to go what
what you'd like us to do next let's go
over to stellar cartography and see what
things look like over there I'm just
mesmerized by this it's incredible I
feel like I've been here like it's a
deja vu feeling having watched so many
episodes of Star Trek The Next
Generation so it kind of feels like this
is like living the the the fantasy or
the dream of what Star Trek has created
so we've got to find the right door
because only the doors that are in
active rooms are going to actually let
us in
this looks like from generations cool
that looks like a bit of a work in
progress
absolutely beautiful though look at the
textures there this looks awesome all
right now where's the turbolift there is
an emergency transport feature so if you
get lost you can actually use emergency
transport or if you get outside and you
know up the enterprise and you can't
find your way back in through a glitch
or through jumping out of the shuttle
bay or something like that
speaking of shuttle bay do we want to
check it out yes let's and we're off
see how the door opened but didn't open
that's that's like one of those kind of
pre-alpha glitches so you just back up
and go go back again
Oh a rig nice if you can lower the force
field or not I don't know how
interactive things are just yet it's
more just for the tour of it than
anything awesome
looks like a shuttlebay to me no way oh
oh you cannot go back it's active yeah
get out of my way being a nuclear waste
whatever it is okay let's see what we
can do open
I think those forcefield generators are
there
oh now I'm wishing I didn't blow up ds9
cuz we'd go and explore it
oh sorry bad advice bad advice
shoot it it's fine yeah yeah
alright let's see if we can actually
operate a shuttlecraft
we open can you open it
must be away
I'm right-clicking and left clicking on
the pad open the dad will do it
Oh something wrong oh yeah you did it
sweet I think once the NPC model is part
of my person it might be a little bit
easier to to see things like where my
hand is actually pointed because I'm
kind of just aiming into space and
hoping that I'm clicking on the right
spot there we go all right let's take it
for a drive Oh
okay
how do we maneuver
w is not going
oh there it is okay w after I pressed
space
it's controlled by the mouse itself
see we can get a view of enterprise oh
I've got like a rear view mirror kind of
thing
there it is very cool
Wow are we still in epic mode system
failure just want to be absolutely sure
there it is folks the Starship
as per stage 9 so we're taking off from
a shuttle bay in a shuttle and and it's
true to where the shuttle bay would be
located there's the bridge up at the top
there nice
get on over to stage - 9 co uk if you'd
like to check it out
let's see if we can find the shuttlebay
entrance again
can I dock it
[Laughter]
coming in a little fast there lieutenant
Robby
oh nice good job thanks thanks
buuuut oh okay now how do i oh there we
go
right click to stand up
you open the door no we're stuck in here
forever forever we can always just press
restart if you're stuck and it can
sometimes happen
or you can try the emergency transporter
which is in game in your game menu which
is accessed by the Escape key the
emergency principle however sometimes oh
it worked beautifully look at that
sometimes the emergency transporter will
take you and place you somewhere you
don't want to be in a corridor where
there's no escape things like that and
we've got time for one more location so
chat room tell Sasha where you'd like us
to go let's see here let's go to ten for
where does it end or not what's being
said yes linden ten-forward
all right Linden here we go
that looks like an interest to
ten-forward I ever did see one oh no way
this is the bar this would actually be a
really cool bar I'll tell you
ten-forward is a really cool bar let's
see if I can so if we're in ten-forward
we've got to pull a Ryker nice pulling a
Ryker there you have it folks at stage 9
from stage - 9 dot KOA dot uk' awesome
yeah wasn't that fun that was amazing
your gaming computer even in epic mode
is sick as the kiddos say I love it ah
so I'm gonna pack this thing up and take
it home with me now nope
this one is for Dave so Dave you are in
the audience awesome yes dave is right
behind the camera thank you so much this
is both a wedding gift and a birthday
gift and it's not just for me but it's
from all of category 5 so we've had it's
from all of category 5 so we've had all
of the viewers from Everett just helping
pick the parts of the computer
Robby guiding me through building it
we've had countless I was like don't do
that no now now that this is over you
can watch the entire series you can like
us on Facebook a game Dave yeah so it's
a sweet gaming rig let's go over a
little bit of the hardware here just so
you know what you're getting the CPU is
a 7th gen Intel Core desktop i7 7700 K
it's overclocked it's four point five
gigahertz it is sweet the motherboard is
in a soos republic of gamers Maximus 8
that's the hero and it is also sweet
it's a gaming mother
the cooling system is like a thermal
take contact silent 12 nice and quiet
the RAM this is beautiful Kingston
HyperX fury gaming Ram not only that but
32 gigabytes of it the system can take
up to 64 but we put 32 in there so to be
dual channel it'll be as fast as can be
and it gives you the chance that if you
ever need more than that which I know
you're never going to need you can go
that route we've got an MDOT two solid
state drive which is a chip on the
motherboard the sash installed it's got
the operating system which is Linux game
gaming OS of Linux it's awesome it's
based on Ubuntu and it works great so
that is a Kingston Kingston digital 240
gig SSD now m2 6 gigabits per second
sweet little thing and that's got your
OS but we knew that you'd have liked
family photos videos things like that
that you're gonna need to be able to
store on here and an m2 at 240 gigs is
gonna fill up pretty quick so we stuck a
terabyte Kingston Drive in there as well
it's an SSD it's the HyperX savage so
that means it's super fast is ready for
gaming it is screaming for you the GPU
this is a killer unit that's the
graphics processing unit we are ready
it's got several HDMI as well as
DisplayPort VR output and a DVI so it's
ready for headsets if you ever want to
get into VR gaming things like that in
the meantime it'll hook up to your big
TV as well that's the gtx 1070
overclocked edition and that's ready for
4k right out of the box then we've got
the power supply is a dreamy corsair rmx
850 X it's an 850 watt power supply
fully modular so the cables are nice and
hidden you don't have you don't see any
extra cables there the chassis is this
beautiful Thermaltake versus c22 black
edition the lights up you can change the
colors whatever you want to do then
keyboard mouse we've got a wireless
gaming keyboard and mouse that's pretty
sweet
then we've got that's it that's yeah I
mean I don't need to mention arctic
silver that's great boring stuff we've
got the little paste stuff yeah yeah
and we glued a thing on a thing so the
one final thing we need to know what
you're gonna plug this into when you
take it home so like do you have a power
bar or something like that yes yeah it's
um it's like a surge protector password
marketing like the bar thing like it's
when you bought it you didn't really
know what you were looking for it just
had enough outlets to plug your TV in
yeah yeah okay so that's why category 5
and viewers of category 5 have come
together to get you a cyber power CP
1000 a VR UPS so this is a battery
backup that you can hook up your new
computer to it also you can plug your TV
into it as well
this has five battery backup ports and
nine surge protected ports it's
guaranteed that it will protect your
data your fire your hardware I should
say from lightning and surge protection
and it's got the LCD it's got auto
shutdown software all the the works and
I got you one that was nice and small
even though it's a thousand volt amps
it's small so it can fit behind your TV
cabinet and things like that so folks
your donations your contributions to
their kind of wedding gift fund for this
project also went toward this so that's
the thousand volt a upside with power
ups with AVR so that's automated voltage
regulations so that means if the power
Browns out it will also protect you nice
you still watch TV when the power's out
gay nice
I want to absolutely personally thank
each and every one of you for your kind
words your support your advice your
donations your time thank you there's
one so much it was a blast it was a
scary blast but it was a blast and Sasha
built this thing with their own hands so
just so you know and watch the video to
see that if you haven't seen the series
yet you're wondering what are we on
about this sweet gaming rig that we
played on tonight is a beautiful gaming
computer Sasha built it it's her first
computer build and I just kind of
oversaw things to help make sure that
things went in correctly and the right
way
and stuff like that you can find out
more about it you can see the entire
series and find our shopping list at
cat5 dot TV slash cpu 2017 it's all
there folks so I hope you enjoy the
gaming rig have fun hope you enjoyed the
show folks and we'll see you next
Wednesday night take care
