hi friends welcome to new everyday I'm
Lawrence Cruz I'm Jeff Weston and we are
in the middle of a seven week series
called the seven rolls of the Holy
Spirit today we're gonna talk all about
the Holy Spirit as our empower don't
miss it this is new every day with Jeff
Weston man screws
[Music]
so glad to have you here with us we are
in the beginning really of a seven part
series on the seven roles of the Holy
Spirit
now we're getting this from a devotional
on the YouVersion Bible app from J Lee
Grady Grady right yeah so this is our
second of seven last week we covered the
Holy Spirit is our regenerator and this
week we're talking about how the Holy
Spirit is our empower yeah now that's
kind of a effort is not now empower
that's I mean that's not an easy word to
kind of like roll off your tongue but
what does that mean to be an empower I
mean to break it down simply I think at
the end of the day somebody who gets you
fired up giving you that that power to
keep going and I think of strength
strength coaches who are like what are
you gonna do it just boys it's like
they're empowering you to push a little
bit further and at the end of the day
that really is what the Holy Spirit is
he's when we listen to the Holy Spirit
and when we press in to the power of the
Holy Spirit and last week we talked
about how with Holy Spirit can do all
things then we can see some incredible
stop Wow because the Holy Spirit can go
here hold my coffee let me show you how
to do this right you know and then it
just kind of when you let him work
through you through your obedience
through your willingness like
unbelievable things can take place when
you look at the beginning of the church
the first time we see the Holy Spirit is
this manifestation through tongues of
fire and speaking in tongues totally
foreign never been seen before anywhere
in history but the Holy Spirit comes on
the scene drops the mic and everybody
starts speaking in tongues in other
languages and so many people were added
to the church because of the influence
and the power of the Holy Spirit in that
moment
yeah I mean you look at Peter whoo right
off the hop I mean this is the guy you
know we were just off-camera we're
talking about it's the one who denied
Christ who I think you said earlier
today chopped the ear off the one
soldier when they rested man named
Malthus mellitus that's right on right
yeah so I mean he kind of screwed up
well yeah he's acting like the protector
of Christ right yeah someone's gonna
take his man no he says no Weyden grabs
his sword
blammo sure and Jesus comes and says
just a second here that's not how we do
that at this point right heals the guy
right but then once the Holy Spirit
comes and empowers them he's a force to
be reckoned with I mean he's like the
first one out of the gates with the new
church-going would you believe what I've
got to tell you I've got so much good
stuff yeah and the church is kind of it
explodes because of it yeah explode as
in Peter's first sermon 3,000 people
that's we're added to the church now God
made it very clear that God added those
people it's the Lord who gives the
increase and it's not just cliche he's
the only one who's building his church
here and we love it right
but he chose to use a man named Peter
who was empowered that's right he was
fired up and yet we know who that same
Peter this same guy like this is the
beauty of it was once the man who denied
that he even knew who Jesus was
do you know him who me never heard of
the guy anybody else went to chop some
of the guys here ah yeah you know it's
like Peter it's just kind of he's
emotionally upset he's less stable than
what he became right maybe we could say
it according to this this wording that
he was less powerful mm-hmm then what he
became yes because the empower er one of
the roles of the Holy Spirit the Holy
Spirit who empowered Peter changed him
like we talked about last week totally
regenerated him as characters change
he's a different man
now instead of running from people
denying that he knows Jesus he's
willingly standing before anyone and
proclaiming who Christ is as an
empowered individual oh man through who
through this person of the Holy Spirit
wow what a change that made in a man oh
sure yeah Lully and changed the course
of history because that was the
beginnings of the church and when you
look at all the incredible things that
happened in the early church stuff that
quite frankly we don't really see
nowadays hmm and I don't know if that's
just you know because we rely upon
modern medicine I'm thinking more so
from like the miraculous healings and
stuff and perhaps we should qualify that
because I know we've chatted it may be
the statement we don't see it a lot is
perhaps in North America well fair
enough yes absolutely yeah yeah sure
yeah yeah but North America know what
you mean yeah and you know when you look
at all the stuff that transpired with
the church that early church and the
absolute transformation yeah it was all
because of the Holy Spirit who did
empower the church and I mean Christ
said that through the spirit they would
have power I mean you know Jesus sent
the disciples out with a portion of that
power to heal the lame to bring the
sight to the blind and like the list
goes on and on and after some time away
the disciples come back to the Jews were
like you are not going to believe what
happened and that was what the early
church was like because of the power of
the Holy Spirit yeah yeah absolutely the
MVM powering the one who makes the
difference in ordinary disciples right
that's right who were known to be
fighting about who's the greatest yes so
talk about a trend I wanted transition
what a transformation
in these people's lives you become
emboldened of course I'm reading now
from the app and of the seven roles of
the Holy Spirit day to Jesus told his
early followers that when they were
baptized in the Holy Spirit they
would be here it is clothed with power
from on high
that's Luke chapter 24 and verse 49 and
I wonder what they must have felt when
they first heard that like what's that
what do you mean I'm gonna be clothed
did they start talking like they were in
Austria look out I'm coming like I mean
what was going on there and what did it
what we're gonna be clothed with power
like whatever could this mean
a boy did they ever get empowered right
oh yeah yeah Jesus referred earlier in
Matthew chapter 3 verse 11 he says hey
there's going to be one coming you're
gonna be baptized with fire it says it's
like what what is like again you've got
a ghost you got fire I'm empowered what
is this it's the rules according to the
Bible about who this amazing God is but
what does it what a change you bring in
people's lives it's true he makes a
difference and when that wherever the
spirit goes he changes people into
radicals now Jeff I know this is gonna
get you go listen to this next statement
again I'm reading the app your app
friends you can read it with us he the
Holy Spirit gives people the power to
preach boldly which is what Peter did on
the very first instant instance he gives
them the power to heal the sick what
heal sick people and even raise the dead
okay I'm starting to get a picture about
what it means to be empowered now for
sure that's that's hard to wrap your
mind around to say with the power of the
Holy Spirit you have the ability to
raise the dead yeah like obviously it's
going to be for God's glory and so that
would be the purpose for it but I mean
to think that the Holy Spirit we could
just simply say get up
and up they come it's no different than
Jesus with Lazarus Lazarus come out of
there and this guy has been dead for
four days walks out of the tomb and he's
good to go yeah you know take his
wrappings off and give the guys sandwich
know what I mean when you to heal the
sick I mean we got to take a quick break
but I think about a missions trip that I
went on back when I was 14 I think way
back then we're talking over 20 years
ago and I got to see firsthand the power
of the Holy Spirit through miraculous
physical healing that to that point I
had never seen before I had heard about
and quite frankly I didn't believe was
possible really yeah yeah we're gonna
we're gonna take a quick break and then
we'll talk about that hey don't go away
friends we'll be right back stick around
for more for new every day for a limited
time get your hands on limited edition
shirts from the category-five TV network
these high-quality shirts are
manufactured by teespring a fundraising
website and your purchase will help
support the shows we produce get yours
today and send us your pictures to be
featured on the corresponding show visit
cap 5 dot TV slash shirts to support us
and get your official Network shirt
today cat5 dot TV slash shirts
oh man we were just talking about this
I'm reading from the YouVersion Bible
app from one of our friends named Grady
who wrote the seven roles of the Holy
Spirit and in that up on day number two
it says wherever the spirit goes he
changes people into radicals he gives
them the power to preach boldly heal the
sick heal sick people and even raise the
dead Jeff you were telling us about an
experience on a mission trip what in the
world happened yeah so I was I think I
was 14 I may have just turned 15 I don't
remember I know I had a birthday
somewhere in the missions trip but we
were down in Guatemala and I was doing
it you know over the summer months I was
down there for 40 days and with an
organization at the time that was around
called Teen Mania mm-hmm and and so that
was read uh Ron Luce I think had that up
I don't think team 80 is around anymore
but they focused on missions trips for
teenage I remember hearing about them
they had a lot of great work often
almost from what I heard oh yeah all
over the world it was it was really
really good work that they did but on
this one trip we went to this town in
Guatemala called Antigua if anybody's
watching from Antigua hi but I remember
we did this kind of skit in the town
square and you know obviously people
come out and they watch that kind of
stuff and there was this one guy
standing on the sidelines she's kind of
causing a bit of a ruckus and at one
point I remember one of the people on
our team remember asking you know what's
the deal with that guy and they're like
he's just the the town it wasn't a crazy
guy but you know just the guy who kind
of stirs up trouble he'd been there his
entire life he was I'm gonna say 40s
maybe he was born mute and deaf and so
for him just not being able to hear or
communicate in any way not really no one
was going on other than being
see and so he just kind of stirred up
trouble and look for attention and money
and that was kind of his schtick and so
as this was going on I remember it was
on my heart I want to pray for that guy
I want to be able to pray for him and I
want God to open his ears and open his
mouth and and just show the majesty of
what God can incredible and so you know
we finish up our skit and then we're
kind of you know we do kind of the altar
call type thing is anybody want to get
to know Jesus and obviously this guy
can't hear but I walk over to him and
kind of really horribly using like hand
gestures it's like did you see what was
going on over there and I opened up we
had a Spanish Bible and so I brought him
to the scripture that we talked about
and I cut it and then I'm like can I
pray for you and he's like her he's like
okay like no big deal so I start praying
for him some other people and her group
start praying for him and then something
changed in the way we were praying and
there was just this fervent like effort
that came in and everybody was just like
right in on it and the guy starts
weeping and crying and of course I have
no clue what he's dealing with because
we haven't been able to communicate hmm
and then he starts get choked up he
starts saying I could hear you what and
in a moment his ears were opened he
could hear us pray and he said I can
hear you he'd never spoken a word in his
life and the Holy Spirit supernaturally
gave him the ability to hear speak and
to speak clearly and there was people in
the community around watching this they
were like are you kidding me it was the
most amazing moment I've had in my
entire life and it was then that I knew
just how deep the power of the Holy
Spirit was when we go forth in obedience
and follow that leading of the Spirit
and say yeah you've asked me to do this
and I'm gonna do it I have no clue where
that guy is now it's been over 20 years
later so but I'm hoping that his life
was completely transformed
yeah well I would say that we on that
day it was and it and I mean that
experience obviously impacted you all to
this day so Jeff how many courses did
you take on how to heal people in order
to do that I was I was 14 I was trying
to fix the you had you had your master's
degree and people from other communities
no not so much with it with a special
emphasis on the inability to talk their
language and add a measure of they can't
even hear anyway exactly like this is
quite a resume
I mean how Jeff tell me the obvious how
can how could such a profound thing
happen through a teenage boy like what
was going on there it's the Holy Spirit
at the end of the day and not that was a
turning point for me because I grew up
in the church yeah I didn't really live
a life that was messed up I mean I got
saved a stir Sunday and when I was four
yeah like it's kind of hard to mess up
too much more the age of four
yeah you know I just kind of lived
rightly but it was that was a turning
point for me seeing just how deep the
power of the Holy Spirit is and so you
know when we're talking about the
empowering of the holy s--t how
empowering that Holy Spirit is it's like
oh oh yeah you're preaching to the choir
yeah yeah incredible about and I know
you and you mean like my goodness if he
can power empower me he can empower
anybody
oh for sure and and this is the beauty
where that's what we read about in the
New Testament I used to think that Peter
was like ooh this superstar guy and as
I've you know through the years read the
word and understand myself and realize
that like God chose and he made it very
clear it's always been there he just
called ordinary men at one point he
calls them unschooled ordinary men in
fact it wasn't it was it was these
schooled elite who were saying who are
these unschooled ordinary men and why is
it they're doing all of these incredible
things right that's right yeah it's
because the role of the Holy Spirit as
empower the one who emboldened empowers
takes every day people like me and he
does profound things through us
to the glory of his name how cool what a
story oh it's very cool
interesting that it moves you to your
core yes after all of these years yeah
it's probably one of the single most
pivotal points in my spiritual walk
mm-hmm yeah it just it brought a whole
new life to it and I find it so
interesting that there are people who'll
try and suppress the power of the Holy
Spirit mm-hmm they'll try and say hold
on we don't want this we don't want the
chaos that comes with the Holy Spirit we
like our little box nah no thank you
and I don't understand that because I go
on you have one of the most amazing
tools in the toolbox hmm and you want to
leave it collecting dust like hmm come
on yeah that's very interesting and I'm
reading from the app a quote I'm not
suggesting that the Holy Spirit brings
disorder or chaos God is not the author
of confusion and to that of course we
agree right and I'm sure you agree as
well but says the author of this app too
often
it says American Church I'm just reading
yeah so maybe can I add creative license
here to say the North American Church
but we are from Canada here the way it
feels like we're in in Mexico or
something also these days at any rate
but too often the American Church has
tried to confine the Holy Spirit says
the author to muzzle him to constrain
him or even shoot him with a
tranquilizer gun so that we can dream
can maintain control
end quote yeah okay and that that kind
of cranky attractor it does it really
really does and when I think back to
last week's episode about the Holy
Spirit is our regenerator and I think
you know for those churches and those
individuals that are doing that trying
to suppress the Holy Spirit they're
missing out on that regeneration there's
clearly some rot within their life that
needs to be addressed it's like you
missing out on something good yeah
perfect
yeah and that's the reason for us doing
this series over seven weeks about the
roles of the Holy Spirit because even as
you alluded to earlier there was a time
in your life where you had heard about
what God could do but maybe you weren't
quite sure that you believe that because
it was just passed on information but it
wasn't your own experience right and so
we certainly I personally relate you
know to someone we say I can't imagine I
I personally relate to fear of not
wanting to be rejected not wanting to be
misunderstood someone laughing at me and
I'd like to say that all of that's
behind me but it isn't I'm still working
through all of those things and God
loves me and even uses me anyway and
then I read the app when I hear these
stories and I leap out in faith in my
own world can I share my my story you
know what friends I'll tell you what I
was privileged some years ago to go to
India I was on a mission trip it was all
arranged where someone invited me and
two other men came with me if I fast
forward and keep it short we were there
and preaching the Word of God in a way
that I just would normally preach and
but 500 people gather each time on the
streets and I mean that was a big crowd
as we just went from community community
you know they're packed in and who are
you there and I'm preaching through a
translator and I would call for those
people to come and meet the regenerator
and everybody would put their hands up
it's like no put your hands down let's
try this again you thought you haven't
heard me and I would say again how many
of you want to meet Christ as your
Savior and every hand would go up I'm
like this can't be happening and they
all 500 giver you know it would come and
we would pray and then they would want
all of to be prayed for really and we
would pray for them and a Hindu man
three or four hours away heard that this
was going on and he says I want to come
because I hear there's these Canadian
preachers there and my wife needs
healing and the short stories as he
drove for four hours we weren't a
service we were in the foyer of a home
and the three of us stood there and
prayed with this man and his wife and
the host pastor and their wives and
before our very eyes we watched her
gnarled fingers just open up like this
Wow and she cried and she said thank you
he said thank you very much and this
Hindu man came a Hindu and I think left
is a Hindu we were happy to say it was
Jesus he just said thank you but God you
know I mean we believe Christ is the
only way to the Father but he's kind and
is willing and his word is true and we
just watched the empower do incredible
things through ordinary people Jeff I
love it it's it's who he is I think once
again time is flying by for it here but
what what what a great testimony to who
our beautiful God is the Holy Spirit the
empower so good so okay we're working
through the seven roles we've gone
through the Holy Spirit is our
regenerator Holy Spirit is our power we
have five more weeks to go
just turn it it up like I'm cranked I'm
excited to keep going through this yeah
me too thanks for joining us be sure to
have a look at the app on you version
the seven rolls of the Holy Spirit we'll
see you next week catch a new episode of
new every day every Friday morning at
new every day TV we're also on roku Kodi
Plex YouTube Google Play Music podcasts
and
or if you're in Southern California tune
in every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb
TV channel 33 television for the high
desert
you
