welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host where
I'll be Ferguson welcome to episode
number 256 of category 5 technology TV
it is Tuesday August the 14th 2012 how
are you my friend feel like it was just
here with your to go you're a week or
two rocks hey Ben doesn't derail was up
in halliburtt yeah yeah I'm doing all
right how's Robbie excellent well you
can probably see the bags under my eyes
and you're noticing your hairs in my
hair yeah I haven't taken a whole lot of
time for me lately that's the way all
about you Robbie did you hear no did you
hear we got the keys on Monday yeah so
tonight is our very very last episode of
category 5 TV here in Studio B as we
call it because it's our second studio
that we've been imposed this lecture on
Studio C yeah we'll call it Studio C why
not we'll think of something cool there
and then beautiful downtown Barry yeah
you can check out my blog at bald nerd
com it's all about me folks at fault
nerd com yeah there's a I posted about
about the transitional kind of you know
what we're doing here at category 5
because we're stepping into a temporary
studio for the next who knows how many
able-bodied viewers who want to help oh
wow yeah loads and loads of work the
studio well I mean you you at home and
those of you on backstage pass probably
can't see this
I I could give backstage pass a little
bit more than those of you who are not
on backstage pass hey backstage pass how
are you doing you can see that we have
been working very very hard around here
to pack but everything so we are
literally in box still have a lot of
stuff we got a lot of stuff a lot of
that's that's how it goes when you when
you have a studio right here but yeah
tonight we're actually going to tear it
down um I'm teaching used to carolines
right after the show not right after
right up right after the show I didn't I
don't know oh that's cuz it's up in the
fridge keeping gold oh all of a sudden
Weiss Mike he's acting on his blackberry
cancel to cancel the lesson canceled the
lessons libraries are removed take
Garvey tick-tock shot Chris Reich hey
yeah I want to say grace reach I'll go
what's right but you do what you like
well we could go with Chris reach and
then because you can't reach from here
automatically well it's just the
spelling automatically then bottoms up
chris is reaching for his drink there he
is Chris reach having a drink well yes
there is I purposefully mispronounced
things just for you and you do it so
well so in convincing I say no we have
trouble even realizing I know you're
only doing it on purpose I do it so
elegantly eloquently yes that too okay I
can't work in these conditions you know
I need a drink tonight we're going to be
talking well we've been through quite a
week with regards to lamp stack sands
amps tax and debian versus turnkey
versus everything else we're going to
talk a little bit about that tonight
talk about some of your experience this
week too I guess you've been working on
some of that stuff Oh
working with another fellow on that yeah
and yeah had some fun cool we'll talk
about it a little later on tonight
viewer questions we've got lots of those
I could tell you what's coming up in the
newsroom I feel sure yeah nice to see
everybody in the chat room come back to
you just after eric has done telling us
what's coming up I'll be back show well
show here we go all right coming up in
the newsroom Blizzard has been hacked
hey Sheba has cancelled his plans for
Windows RT arm-based devices oh dear and
GM is recalling almost forty eight
thousand police cars not a joy ride that
day hmm new glass inspired by nature is
visible to birds but not humans what so
we can avoid that sickly sound of the
Buddha bird hit in the back window sick
around these stories coming up later in
the show thanks Eric nice to see a chat
room let's see who we've got d Tapia 63
bk7 HSE hey nice to see that we've got a
couple guests in there as well nice to
see you invincible musical JimBob kilo
seven hotel sierra okay what's something
all but that damn is I'm guessing this
is like ham radio that'll be my guests
of jam oh yeah yeah like the more
creative ones like guest underscore 1488
what's more creative that yeah that's
the guy who just pushes up okay sign in
okay that's tekmoto just joining us nice
to see a sign yeah jodha max Lord of
sporks good to see you Maxwell 6307 m
hall 119 new to linux that's the name of
somebody in the chat room okay not not
what I do not that M Hall is new to
linux but there's actually somebody
named bulk new to linux nice to have you
here rapper RT Blair like this one
steve-o Robert F how about Laura not
Robbie F Lourdes parks yea Lord of
sporks I like that you know spork that's
kind of like Mark something between a
a fork and a spoon right that's right
because those when you get the french
fries out the little stand that's right
made out of wood yeah awesome well they
have plus on my best they have plastic
spork yes how interesting I feel like
like I don't want to leave it you know I
start naming people off so slow Stevo
tick-tock Todd you al yes at 1965 happy
to use it yes yesterday 19-6 either way
you just said it two ways so Chris yeah
yeah hey jamison joining us nice to see
ya guest Harry how is that you elders at
you all I would say how Wow well could
be a southern I know y'all are those
folks it is gonna be one of those we
gotta keep Garvey's interest tonight
because he's had quite a day as well
whoa ger power outages and her internet
outages i should say but it's like
having the power that is what are you
gonna do without in the internet you're
gonna have a blackberry that you can
share over Wi-Fi there you go what are
you doing garbey yeah guest Harry says
isn't this an awesome world I think I
think we can say that I think if you're
referring to the the fact that the sky
is blue and the birds are chirping then
yes but if it Robbie's trip if it's that
you know that here we are you know
you're from where you are watching from
work secrets safe without oh so finally
out of work I think you said didn't he
oh okay all right well good to see y'all
oh my gosh don't forget if you've got a
mobile device m dot cat five dot TV
that's m dot cat five dot TV is our
mobile site and also love to get your
postcards you can send yours over to us
by snail mail takes a long time to get
here but it gets here category five
technology TV p.o.box to 9009 this
normally is oh oh oh he says we're gonna
have to start yet it's 29 u9 no it's too
9009 Barrie Ontario Canada l4n
7w 7 Lima for november seven whiskey
seven for them yeah ok he just has to
see how many times did he say whiskey in
the course of the show he could yes yeah
well we do have your viewer question we
have some questions hey there's one here
in the chat room hey you guys alright
737 63 hey yeah don't say that cracker
should probably say tree okay Robby I
need help boo boo to 12.4 hose do i SAT
up and I had to install it fresh my
problem is I am having trouble getting
FS tab to load my raid and another drive
on starter it was working before 12.4
hosed it can you help I see the drive
separately but not as a raid nautilus
has no trouble accessing the raid
correctly but FS tab is being difficult
but your FS tab should see it as one I
mean FS tab is your filesystem table
right so you're you're configuring your
raid at the hardware level or the in the
bios or wherever or because you're not
dealing with a software raid right this
is a this is something that you've
configured on the chipset rebooted the
computer and this is from the chat room
right guest 73 763 hardware raid so
you've configured this at the at boot so
your system is only going to see it as
one drive anyway so do you have other
drives in there that are being detected
or what's going on because the the rom
on your on your chip like your your rate
controller should be providing it as a
simple logical volume right it's one
drive as far as what FS tab is gonna do
house calls maybe you could go yeah
absolutely yeah pay for the flight and
we're there Rob Gore nice to see ya Oh
guests can you send me a copy of your FS
tab and the output of your on ubuntu
12.04 so do sudo
BLK ID and hit enter can be the output
of that as well that'd be right email me
live at category five dot TV that stuff
unless you're on that computer right now
pop it into the chat room but is it's
probably something that i'd like to see
even pop it in the forum love to see you
in the forum it's simply forum dot
category five dot TV all right oh okay
we're drinking coffee from Muskoka
roastery tonight which is a word by the
way they got yeah we were talking about
it and they say a we're watching the
show and and yes roastery is a word how
cool is that mm-hmm very very very nice
yeah oh you all is UL I know al Wow okay
got it there we go okay let's move on to
uh how would some viewer emails yeah all
right here's a question from marvelous
hey marvelous yeah well that will hit a
question for sure yeah oh that's like no
the fridge well I sorry I'm just looking
here no more nice dream isn't frozen oh
don't worry about that yeah she took
some just user now don't I've got a
question for marvelous here question is
Wirecast for mac okay when using my
canon hv 40 video camera and my logitech
USB web camera for a two-shot production
i'm experiencing an audio lag on my
logitech USB camera I run the HV 40 via
firewire into the mac and the logitech
camera into the mac by USB I'm running
my microphones through Zen tix 80 to a
Zen tix 802 mixer with output to my age
v40 camera and thus bring all audio
through the HP 40 into Wirecast what am
i doing wrong thanks for your input Zen
tix this is an ex maybe
hid mty X Zent X 800 there is an actual
mixer but then there's always xenyx
without the t yeah ok is it a behringer
yeah that no that's a type yeah look at
even the it is a typo xenex yes because
it's a behringer mixer absolutely yeah
yeah yeah ok just had to just had to
clarify because I wanted to know what
was going on there um so is that USB
output her is that analog output because
how are you so you're going into the
camera no you're going into the camera
analog going into the logitech USB web
camera yeah not using the error you know
they're going to the matter where they
love you more yeah 40 there so there it
is ok so I think what's happening here
is that you've simply got too many hops
in the chain you're going here's here's
the problem you've worked with audio so
you know analog to digital to analog to
digital so what's actually happening
here is you've got your analog mixer
that's the xenyx 802 ok so this mixer
here is an analog device you've got your
microphone going in you've got your
analog main outs see that right there
that's what you're going out from so now
you've got an analog signal from an
analog microphone you're going into what
a digital video camera that's converting
the audio to digital and then it's going
along the firewire which is a you know a
reasonably slow medium for data travel
and your streaming video through that
same medium and then it's having to do
what because it's audio it's having to
convert it back to probably analog it
may keep it digital but there that
you've got this kind of conversion thing
happening that that doesn't need to
happen what I would do instead is I
would just take that board ok take the
main outs and go you know you've got a
sound card in your in your macbook I
don't know if I have
no I don't have anything to show you but
go eight inch sure you do do I know cuz
that's quarter inch it puts your quarter
inch unico yeah yeah yeahs don't wanna
well yeah sure RCA cable and go to your
sorta well you but you need to get down
to stare yeah you had two of these yeah
if you had two of these sorry like I'd
rummage around the desk here and just
fine stuff we're moving so we just got
random things there you go so you've got
RCA output quarter inch from the board
to RCA RCA cable with a quarter inch no
8 inch pardon me on the other end
invariant yes Theriot 8 inch to the to
the input on you're just gonna look like
that no to the input on your lap dogs on
your macbook okay so then what's going
to happen is your video is going to come
from the cameras only the audio is going
to come from the board only you're not
going to have that hop that is actually
pumping the audio through one of your
cameras so then it's losing sync with
the second camera because it's not it's
you're trying to push it through one of
the camera devices on fire wire so if
you instead have it treated as three
different devices so video video audio
rather than one of your video camera is
also doing audio and I'll make you
that's going to solve it for you so take
the board go directly into the audio
input if you think your laptop only has
a microphone input I'll bet you it's
going to automatically sense if you do a
line input and it's going to
automatically switch it to line
especially the macbook pro so you're
gonna let us know about that marvelous
please do right yeah all right another
viewer question here but before we get
into that we do have quick quick break
Eric what we do what idea was your
digger bridge yeah we'll be back right
after this cheers at eco alkalines we
believe you should be able to trust your
batteries not just here but here here
and here but
one exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference eco alkalines calm this is
category 5 technology TV and it's
episode number 256 I'm Robbie Ferguson
and I'm Eric Kidd listen it I'm Eric
good that's amazing I don't think I
sounded like that at all now I would try
I can do that hi I'm Robbie Ferguson
thanks good to be here I heard you girls
I heard this guy sing falsetto I went to
one of your gigs and you sang falsetto
and I was yeah but it wasn't done well
it was done excellently all right hmm
well let's see um and krista's been
staring at me the whole show oh the
business card business card that is a
really cool business card she and that
awesome I would assume that Krista
designed that that's very cool nice card
all right wait viewer question from Ron
hey Ron okay Ron Smith asks sorry I
scroll a little farther have you heard
of zamp apache mysql PHP perl yes I have
oh it's supposed to be quick and easy
way to install a web server there's a
version that installs on linux windows
and mac i was wondering it would be
easier to use zamp or xampp how do you
pronounce that one I'm going with I go
with xampp okay tours amp no cuz we go
lamp lamp would it be easier to use than
turkey well lamp and the lamp is a linux
apache mysql and PHP for anybody
wondering right right tell me I'm right
yeah okay zamp is is a decent
I guess you know solution if you're
stuck using Windows but why would you
use it on a Linux set up yeah actually
and I tried zamp what I was playing at
the samp the ex kind of eating a
cross-platform so the whole point is
that it's cross-platform and it was fine
for you know if you're doing some web
development you want to just test your
your stuff it seemed great the turnkey
seemed considerably more robust but i
don't really i guess it's i don't know
but we should understand a little bit
about the Dipple we've got garbey in the
chat room who says wamp if I want to use
windows if you're stuck on Windows use
wamp good suggestion yeah or on the next
used lamp or alternatively use a virtual
machine but with a lamp stack right
Linux of course being the major
operating system platform for web
hosting apache being you know the big
dog as far as hosting goes so but then
yeah what is turnkey Linux versus just a
lamp stack so turnkey you know we've
worked with turnkey you and I yes we'll
have you used turnkey and actually Eric
and I talked about it on the show a
while back let's see if I can track that
which is more to this question too okay
what's up our you're totally going to
cover installing apache mysql and PHP
well let's let's take care of questions
so in touch so okay so I've just done a
quick search turnkey lamp on episode
number 169
did Rachel make a picture of you always
I like that it says it's an old episode
but it still gives you a good idea what
turn key is okay turn key is basically
it's exactly what it sounds like it is a
turnkey solution for getting a server up
and running very very quick so run
really it comes down to you know do you
want to be able to deploy a server
quickly with as little administration as
possible that's where turnkey comes in
would I just install zamp on a cert on a
computer and use that as a server I
wouldn't do that would you install lamp
on the server and just let it run you
probably wouldn't do that either because
you'd want to make sure that you've got
some security in place as well after the
news this evening run we're going to
take a look at the option which is to
use debian as an installer or as a
platform to install a lamp stack it
makes things pretty easy as far as
getting that setup but i'd encourage you
again the check out episode number 169
with regards to turn key and then
tonight we're going to look at debian so
we're gonna actually install it
ourselves the difference really is that
with turnkey it's an out-of-the-box
solution everything is included
everything's ready to go and it's done
it's got security stuff in place it's
got your webmin in place so that you can
administer it through your browser
completely without having to know much
about linux at all it's basically an
out-of-the-box turnkey server that you
can run in a virtual machine there's
also a Linux console you can oh
absolutely but you can do a three
browser yes yeah so ever like an SSH
terminal yeah so check out episode
number 169 so um then with Debbie and
it's it's a bit different because we're
gonna install the operating system
tonight we're going to get the lamp
stack going under that and then the
difference really boils down to now
you're administering a server a little
bit more with debian or with anything
like that versus turnkey which is a
little more out-of-the-box ready to go
all right sorry the the next question is
well the next part of that was are you
going still going to cover installing
apache mysql and PHP on that fit pc
three minute server you have and then
there's more ok well let's and let's
address that yeah we've seen the fit pc
the fit pc3 that's the little computer
it's it's a duo right core computer its
its outstanding for this little tiny box
and we're going to virtualize on that so
tonight we're actually creating the
virtual machine that's going to hold the
debian install that has lamp set up
ready to go and then that fit pc is
actually going to be running linux on it
with virtualbox and we're going to be
running everything as a virtual machine
so that way it's very very easy to back
up the entire system we've got some
other advantages there but that's for a
future show but tonight we're going to
be creating the virtual machine just on
a desktop computer in future now we can
take that virtual machine once this
configured transfer it over to the fit
pc3 and we've got a server that is solid
state and you don't have to you know
cool it or anything it just runs and
runs and runs so absolutely all right
and there's more I have a zotac zbox or
ok for marathon Burns's okok pozo tilak
maybe as otech i don't know could there
be a I'm gonna do a quick search Zeebox
there it is it is zotac night goes dead
box being Canadian and all but maybe
it's a zbox thousand could be an
American product alright which is a mini
PC not as good as the fit pc3 ok yeah
there's a URL but you've already found
it ok I'm hoping to use it as web server
to learn how to build a website just was
not sure what is the best way to go
linux mint running xampp or running
linux mint with turnkey lamp in
virtualbox i was just looking there that
it says on this website that that is an
atom processor so can you use
how are you running it or do they have a
PC like an Intel processor oh they have
an AMD platform one as well here's
another one here cool so that's that's
cool i mean we're looking at all kinds
of these little boxes the fit pc3 is
definitely one of the you know it's a I
would consider it kind of a higher-end
really really good quality solid-state
solid metal body even and then you can
get into some other units like the zotac
stuff here that it was probably a
slightly smaller price tag but probably
excellent for you know consumer-grade
stuff like for what you're doing for
setting up a media pc or setting up a
little tiny server I don't know what the
internal components are like it looks
like a plastic body and I'm not sure how
how warm it runs or anything like that
but you'd want to kind of monitor that
cuff you can see warmly enough you could
set your coffee no well the one thing
that I do see is there's a lot of grill
work on it so i would think that it's a
fan cooled system which means there's
some points of failure there so all to
say just that there's there's quite a
difference between what we've looked at
and that type of hardware but can you do
a similar kind of setup on that
absolutely would you want to run it 24 7
as a server probably i wouldn't rely on
it quite as much as I would with the fit
pc3 just because of the fact that it's
it's more prone to you know it's it's
from the things that I've mentioned
there so but yeah isn't that cool yeah
we'll follow along with us i mean the
fit pc3 what we're doing with that you
can do with your zotac unit as well as
long as you can install Linux and
virtualbox then you'll be good to go you
know okay we have a question from and
forgive me if I get this wrong hongsheng
hey I'm tangled hi Robbie I have a
problem installing linux mint 13 to my
desktop i downloaded the ISO image
through
official website and burned it to a DVD
disc the installation actually went very
well after I took out the DV the first
boot seemed to be successful then I used
app to get to install some software like
gimp VirtualBox at Al after that I
modified / ET c / FS tab configuration
file to auto mount auto mount other
partitions when the system boots up next
I rebooted the system but this time
after I entered the new system through
grub list the black screen displayed it
could not write bytes broken pipe
instead of entering the GUI after i
upgraded the system using recovery mode
the problem remains someone in the forum
said the new linux mint 13 system uses
TTYL eight instead of standard TTYL
seven but i don't know what that means
do you have any suggestions I've already
done the installation twice but the
problem remains best longsheng so
whenever you add it to FS tabit starts
breaking and you're certain I would
assume that you've created a good FS tab
file right the best thing to do is
obviously create a create a backup first
and foremost when you've got a bootable
system backup your FS tab before you
start editing it just do a CP and make
another copy but you should not reboot
your computer when you've edited your FS
tab file before you've tested it you can
do that with if you need to use sudo you
would do sudo space mount space dash a
and that does amount all and I go
through FS tab file and it will it will
tell you if there's any problem with the
file because it will spew out an error
if one of the drives is misconfigured or
something like that because you've
edited the FS tab and created a problem
and then rebooted your computer without
first testing it there's no there's no
way to know whether it was going to work
or not and all of a sudden you've locked
yourself out of the system but you
should be able to use a rescue disk or a
live CD get into the computer again
access your etc' folder by mounting the
hard drive and and then just re-edit the
FS tap foul but again would have been
really really easy if you if you
a backup of your FS tab I'm sure hon
Jensen oh no you tell me ya know I
always back up back up seriously um
nobody the the whole you know mounted
test it before you before you go
rebooting what was the second part of
that question I'm sorry we'll see where
were we oh TTYL 7 verse TTYL i have no
idea about that if mint is using a
different tty terminal what that means
though is in linux really cool once you
get you want to figure out how to use
your screens if you hit ctrl alt f1
you're going to access TTYL one so then
you can log into linux you can do your
thing you can do you can run stuff but
then you can go TTYL too and all of a
sudden TTYL one is still running all
that stuff in terminal but then TTYL to
is doing some other stuff typically ctrl
alt f7 or TTYL 7 is going to be your GUI
this X environment if they put it on
TTYL 8 for some odd reason because it's
been TTYL 7 for every distro for all
time practically but if that's the case
then you would go ctrl alt f 8 and
that's the actual f8 key at the top of
your keyboard that will get you there so
where does that cpy stand for i can't
remember anymore aah that's one of those
older little day I well there's your
there's your what do you call your
trivia for the day there you go I'm not
gonna google it but I know somebody in
the chat rooms gonna tell me and they'll
win like huge amounts of cookies
teletype Chris Reich says teletype all
right Chris Wright is old hag emoto
guessing at el ataque hotel a text but
that wouldn't explain the why yeah yay I
know jots probably over in
Google land and figuring this out for us
there goes our for phones box that's one
of those useless knowledge things that
you'll you'll love to have we've got two
I'd like to hear some of that new stuff
that you were talking about you like
that yeah yeah we've got some more of
your questions and of course join us in
the chat room its category 5 on freenode
love to have you there and Eric yeah
take her away all right here's top news
stories from category 5 tvnewser I meant
to say here are not cute I can't believe
I said that that's the kind of thing I'd
dump all over you for thank you
certainly went Blizzard Entertainment
maker of popular multiplayer online
games such as World of Warcraft Diablo
and starcraft warned on Thursday that
its internal network was breached
revealing scrambled passwords and email
addresses hackers obtained email
addresses for users located outside of
China for battle.net blizzards porter
portal for its online games and the
answers to those users personal security
questions affected regions include north
america latin america australia new
zealand and south east asia users of the
service are being asked to update their
software change their password and
security question Wow toshiba has
canceled previously announced plans to
sell computer and tablet devices based
on Microsoft's Windows RT which is
essentially a version of windows 8
created specifically for arm-based
devices toshiba has had plan to use ARM
processors from texas instruments but
due to delays in getting those
processors have decided they will
concentrate instead on Intel's chip and
use the windows 8 version designed to
work on those the decision announced
yesterday is a blow to Microsoft's plans
to use the new software and chips
normally found in mobile phones to
combat the dominance of the iPad general
motors is recalling more than 38,000
chevrolet impala police cars in the US
and canada
because apart in the front suspension
can crack and cause a crash recall
affects police cars from the 2008 to
through 2012 model years the lower
control arm and the suspension can
fracture causing sudden changes in
handling that could make the driver lose
control a special glass coating inspired
by spiderwebs as being used in UK for
the first time a lookout tower at
Lindisfarne has installed it to protect
the hundreds of species that flock to
the island off northeast off the
northeast coast of England the ornae
looks glazing reflects ultraviolet light
which can be seen by birds but appears
invisible to humans tests suggest it can
cut bird strikes by about two-thirds and
work is being done to improve it further
the technology was developed by the
German company Arnold glass as with one
is a friend of the owner of the company
saw an article about the orb weaver
spider said the firm's export manager
natalie cop its web reflects UV light
protecting it from being destroyed by
birds as they see it and do not fly
through the idea of developing a coating
for glass inspired by nature was born on
the same evening get the false stories a
category 5 TV / newsroom the category 5
TV news room is researched by roy wa ash
with contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a new store you
think is really if on air mentioned
email newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room I'm Eric Kidd
interesting how some people find their
inspiration ain't like to be reading an
article about a particular type of
spider web and then think oh that would
make great glass well the fellow birds
don't fly into it came up with velcros
because he had burrs on his dog really
can use that example since all those who
realize that it was like this and you
hadn't yeah brilliant isn't how
exceptional is that hey tonight's show
is brought to you in part by quarter e
electric quarter eee electric dot-com
there the official electrical company of
category 5 technology TV also we'd love
to extend to you a free month trial of
myths
clicks cat five dot TV / Netflix and I
guarantee you're gonna enjoy that oh my
apologies to the nice folks who got that
little I oz the xios pilots house well I
finally actually remembered I need to
change my password so oh you no longer
have my free let bugs about yeah behind
on behind the scenes we had we had set
up his I assholes quick i'll just put in
my info yeah so we put in eric's info
and then we and then we awarded it in
the news he gave her the westward yes or
a No so they've just lost I didn't
you're gonna have to sign up with their
own cat five dot TV / I did not hear
from the good folks and Halliburton who
won that but oh really boy my boy
derringer let me know the password had
changed hey you know we have here Robbie
what's what's up oh yeah right right
from when I was in haliburton yeah I
said that I had purchased i think when
we talked about it i imagine i had
purchased a postcard well as you know we
love to receive postcards even if it's
from the host of the show I mean hey
category five team and viewers having a
great time in haliburton and area today
Thursday I'm taking back in the kids to
a log run along run the log shoot oh
yeah was not a CH ute like a sheep yeah
good water like they used to put logs in
yeah this man made kind of water chute
is for lack of a better word it's it's
like a kind of a like a boat kind of
thing I don't know like a big speech
with ya biggest waterslide you have ever
seen cool let's put it that way should
be a memorable adventure it will have
fun and looking forward to seeing you
tuesday robbie is a big smiley face and
all that sort of stuff well he didn't
cheap out on the stamp either check that
out yeah okay nice this is yet among the
many beautiful sites to enjoy and we've
actually stated a lot of smart across
lots for sure from halliburton yeah
that's
whoo yeah I know I love love the area
miss it already and we we got back in
without a bridge and I saw that plane
yeah I didn't see that plane I'm not
sure now maybe some of our viewers from
Halliburton and it's nice to have you
here maybe some of you can let us know I
noticed that they were painting the the
historical plane though that is there
yeah I wasn't sure if they were there
and scaffolds and doing all the neat
stuff and then these skies opened up and
started just pouring wine thunder and
lightning and the derringer the day of
the show yeah old guy Jim nice to see ya
yeah yeah all right well we should I you
know our age is just good never once
young at heart young at heart the shorts
prove it chopped I want to look at
debian I mean have you ever worked with
a true debian install because i love i'm
going to all rooms oh ok well i love
going to the roots of debian based
operating systems and just going
straight to debian and you know I run
Deb you know at the office that's what I
use as my main production computer
operating system now it's kind of I
don't know how you quite say it but it's
it's it's not difficult at all it's it's
more if you really want to get your
hands into your linux distro into your
your operating system debian is a great
way to go your hands of my linux distro
no well you know like you can get
something like Zorro s which is
fantastic for an end user who doesn't
want or doesn't know a lot about linux
at this time and wants to just kind of
get in get their feet wet learn how
linux operates on their computer that
kind of thing debian on the other hand
gives you the opportunity to really
customize your computer i love that i
love being able to set it up the way
that I love and that's exactly what I've
done at the office what I want to show
you is how to get our hands on debian so
all we're going to do simply visit their
website linux is a free operating system
so it's so i mean it's it's exceptional
that you can just download it and
install it
I've just gone to debian org I'm going
to actually take you through this and
for those of you who are not new to
linux then just hang out with us tonight
we're just having a fun time and we're
going to maybe take this time to you
know maybe there are some people that
are joining us in the chat room maybe
there are some people who are joining us
on the live feed or even in the after
show as well who are curious about
Lennox so let's let's support them and
we're going to hang out and show them
our way through here I'm going to go
okay under getting debian right on the
homepage CD iso images and then let's i
mean you can get it however you want i'm
going to go through HTTP or ftp just to
make it real easy and just scroll down
what I'm going to do I'm going to show
you a kind of an interesting way to to
do this let's see see what builds are
here now let's see download this CD DVD
all right go back here judge oh ok I
want to click actually on let's go with
a network install because what i really
really want to do is get the really
really small one called the the business
card version so a business card yeah
let's see what i can find now i'm seeing
the network boot small cds smaller cds
smaller cds ah this is there you go
business card shaped cds you know little
stuff reason for it is this is like such
a small download is forty megabytes I've
got a 32 may 32-bit processor so I'm
going to go I 386 see that one right
there so if you're using a 32-bit
processor I 386 is what you want if
you've got a 64 bit processor like the
intel current generation processor or
AMD you would go amd64 even if it's
intel k don't let that confuse it that's
just a 64-bit processor i'm using
VirtualBox so I'm going to go I 386
because I'm not going to run my virtual
machine as a 64-bit virtual machine I
don't need to have more than four gigs
of ram and I don't need 64-bit
extensions so i'm going to download that
notice it's only going to take 30
seconds to download
it's crazy there's a whole operating
system what it's actually doing is it's
downloading the Installer I so and then
is going to do everything else through
the internet because linux uses we've
talked about it before repositories okay
you've got a pretty decent you know
connection here though it may take all
you seconds oh yeah folks sure it may
look quick yeah I quick download all the
same shot says can't you speed up your
download 30 seconds so I've downloaded
that to my desktop it's there there we
go so what I'm going to roll just
looking bunch and goes on your desk are
just just always up to shenanigans okay
system tools Oracle VM VirtualBox i'm
going to hop in there and i'm going to
create a new virtual machine let's do it
we're going to call this my debian
system now i'm doing this as a virtual
machine just because we're going to be
using this as a server I'm kind of
distrel if you want to install this as a
an actual production environment to
replace windows to replace your linux
distro you don't need to use virtualbox
burn the iso and go ahead just make sure
you've got your network card connected
to the to the network because you're
going to need internet in order to do
this so call it my debian system it's
automatically determined that this is
linux debian because i put debian in the
name it's defaulting to 384 mix of ram
no problem and is asking me for when i
create number yeah i don't care i don't
need a lot of ram I'm just kind of
clicking next next next because all this
stuff is fine it's not a virtual box
tutorial so we'll just let it go ok my
debian system settings first thing we
want to do first of all it's the server
so i'm going to turn off the audio
controller i can turn off USB to point
out and don't need anything else I'm
going to throw the CD in the drive look
at this I don't need to burn a CD
because i'm using VirtualBox of
highlighted CD drive which is virtual
and I'm going to go choose a virtual CD
disk file now oh it's already selected
it I guess because I was testing it
earlier and so I can do that or you can
go choose a virtual cd/dvd disk file
that is going to allow you to browse to
your
so double check your settings everything
looks good don't need 3d acceleration
network we change that doing rigid yeah
otherwise you're not going to be able to
access this computer through your
network everything else should be fine
okay and then double click and we are
booting up from that iso file basically
booting up computer but it's a virtual
computer within our actual physical
computer there we go okay so English
Canada so a Wi-Fi network connection
american dragon boat could it could it
be Bravo Wi-Fi in my case would not be
because i'm using virtual i'm using
VirtualBox so my connection is going to
be persistent rebel you're right that if
I was doing an install from a CD I
wouldn't actually have a Wi-Fi
connection to connect to this room you'd
actually need an ethernet connection so
usually that's not a problem though I
mean any of the install is so quick so
easy that you're going to be able to you
know take you know run a cable and it
can be just temporary and then you can
set up Wi-Fi after the fact once the
install is done it's already asking me
for some system specific stuff what do
you want to call it debian dash system
will call it that's your hostname domain
name I don't have a domain so I'm just
going to hit enter it's selected Canada
I'm saying yes these are the sites that
it could download from ok so use a
mirror in a country that is close to you
that's see a debian org i guess you know
what this is probably it looks like
they're all canadians so there's the
calgary university so i'll just hit
enter on that do I have a proxy know so
I'm just going to hit enter it's
downloading the release files from the
repository so it's basically determining
what all the newest stuff is that I'm
going to need create a password for your
root user whoa Robbie needs to type and
not talk at the same time and Eric it
doesn't help when you elbow sorry i'll
try to behave in the future full name
for this user will just call him Robbie
username for your account Robbie there
you go whatever in this case that's fine
there we go okay eastern time zone good
to go so if you made your password a
bunch of asterisks WP yeah nobody would
ever guess I just showing it mm-hmm
sorry how many asterisks is that eight
okay now this is asking about your hard
drive what you want to do just go use
entire disk because that's going to wipe
out everything right okay all files in
one partition that's fine in this case I
get into the advanced stuff finished
partitioning and right to the disc disc
and white if you're doing this on a
physical computer this is going to wipe
out everything so that's why it is
redundant Leessang okay so I know that
you said you want to wipe out everything
but are you sure that's really unlike
units that yes you a second drug well
it's being nice to us because we're new
here we're just entering the world of
Linux there we go okay so I'm gonna let
that go and as that now what it's going
to actually do see that it's retrieving
retrieving retrieving it's actually
going out on the internet getting the
information through the internet of
latest files latest packages latest
builds and then it's actually going to
download those so that they can install
on your computer and that's why it was
so small that's why it was able to be so
some horrid little so oh now don't spoil
the surprise I got a question okay so
now it's probably when it prompts you
see what what it gives you is it tells
you what gives you a list of the
different options that you can choose
and I've selected to install a web
server to install SQL and ssh all that
kind of stuff and then it goes through
the whole you know download rigger marui
downloads everything and finally we can
actually boot into and that easy right
into our system very cool there we go so
i'm going to log in if i want you don't
have to but
see what i can do is i can just leave it
like that now i chose to install a GUI
just because i'd like to be able to use
the GUI once in a while but if i don't
log in or if I want to use terminal
that's cool too but watch what I can do
now now that I've got that system
running so even if it's a physical
machine on my computer well the first
thing I'm actually going to need to do
Eric as I am going to need my IP address
because I min Joo I mode I'm gonna get
it this way so you're gonna get a like
an internal 192 168 kind of thing really
gonna did yeah exactly yeah because we
want to be able to connect to this now
remember that during the installation
process there just a moment ago I asked
it to install automatically through the
internet the lamp stack so you see here
the my IP address notice how i've done
that i right clicked on the networking
up here gone connection information my
IP address is 10 dot 0 dot 0 dot 115 now
if i switch back to my actual physical
computer bring up my browser and i go
1000 115 you'll see that it's actually
hosting up it works as doing that
through the network from that computer
or it could be a virtual machine in my
case so now we have a full lamp stack
installed built ready to go with SQL
with ssh so i should be able to if if
all went well i haven't tested this we
could bring up terminal let's give it a
try SSH Ravi at 1000 dot 1150 I've
already okay now in my case I'm going to
need to remove the the key because I and
you won't see that that's because i
already had a computer i'm using dhcp i
already had a computer at one point that
that was at 10 dot 0 dot 0 to 1 15 so
the authentication was different okay so
do i want to save this authentication
yes ok enter my password and now you'll
see that i'm actually connected to what
debian so i'm actually logged in
remotely to that computer through ssh it
was that easy i didn't have to even do
any app getting it was it all just
worked so now that I'm SSH den so that
computer can be anywhere on my network
it can be whatever well I can open it up
through the firewall so that it can
actually be
come you know open up port 80 and it
becomes a web server right because it is
hosting through Apache so I'm SSH tin to
it which is Linux is kind of way of
giving me access to the file system so
anything that I do here I'm actually
doing on that computer right there it is
debian just created just installed so
now if i go see d VAR w WN that computer
and then there's an index dot HTML file
index.html and do this through terminal
there's the the file we've seen this
before okay so if I go hello I just
added this right just for the sake of
doing that I'm going to save that file
with ctrl oh and then can control let's
see filename right index Oh got to be
super user sudo
nano index okay oh haha see what I did
it's debian it's a little bit different
and I'm still I was just in the Ubuntu
mindset because I'm looking at it from
my computer York debian does work a
little bit differently there's no you're
not doing sudo you're going to do su
right watch how that's a little bit
different i just type s you enter my
password and now i'm actually route so
now i can go nano index dot HTML i can
edit that file ok i edited this and i'm
just showing you this just so that you
can see that now that i've saved that
with control oh and control x to exit i
refresh in my actual computer that's
connected to 1000 dot 115 ok and you see
that i edited this yeah so i can now you
know i can host a website on that i can
host a wordpress blog on that little
server that created it's a virtual
machine so now i can transport that
anywhere i like i can put it on you can
put it on that little device that you've
got with virtualbox because it's a it's
a file that i can move around it's a
virtual machine and then i can put it on
my fit pc Larry east of sure you can
yeah take it we're absolutely so now it
is an actual you know base install
server but then again okay looking at
debian nice-looking operating system we
can actually play around and turn this
into a yes it is a decent operating
system decent distro for sure and what
you see out of the box is pretty bare
minimum remember this was a 40 Meg
download and you can really really spice
it up using synaptic package manager you
can get the different things like comp
is for example to really make it look
nice and configure your themes do
whatever you like but in this case we're
actually setting up specifically as a
server so that's different than using
turnkey for example going back to turn
key linux where we don't really have to
install anything but then again debian
let us install right at the installation
one of the installation steps was here
push space if you want to have a web
server push space if you want to have
ssh really really simple really all
that's done is it's downloaded the
apache PHP 5 program that the meta meta
package and installed it on my computer
so it's cool stuff very any questions in
the chat room we love to hear from you
and of course and get your questions in
to us live at category 5 TV do we have
any more questions that have come into
our glorious inbox um here's one from dr
k from irvine california hey hi rob gay
I can't get the RSS feeds to work
anymore on my android phone samsung
galaxy s3 in the dog catcher people load
and i can see episode names and
descriptions and the video shows
download instantly no waiting time for
the download but there's nothing there
when i try to play them I've tried the
mp4 h.264 and mp3 feeds with the same
result I listened to eight other podcast
feeds without any problems would love to
be watching the show again and that's
James k from irvine california u.s.a
alright thank you for the question and
it's actually it's it has been addressed
and i think it was a recent show where I
mentioned make sure you use our search
system that's on the website or just go
simply over to search dot category 5 TV
and I think you may have had trouble
finding this but what because I just did
a quick google search just to see and I
noticed there in the email that you've
spent doc they're spelled dog catcher
with 2 g's and the question was
submitted to us but you'll see it search
category 5 TV it was submitted with only
one g so if I submit that search will be
able to find the episode at least for
you where that particular question was
addressed to 47 so and it was the exact
same question except the the user had
spelt it with 1g so there
you go I should really stay on top that
kind of don't thank geez yeah I just
didn't into Google and just double
checked because I remember that question
coming through so dr. K check out
episode number 247 and i want to show
you another really really neat feature
of our website when you go to episode
number 247 or any episode of category 5
TV that is you know relatively modern
we're not going back over season 1
season 2 files and stuff and doing this
you'll actually see in the show notes
for that episode there are a whole bunch
of little tiny play buttons so if you
want to see a specific thing in the show
you can click on the play button that
corresponds to the line item that you're
looking at in the show notes and it will
actually start the video at that point
in the video so usually with fewer
questions it kind of starts at viewer
questions so there you see it viewer
questions so if you started there you
know that you know a couple questions
where's dog catcher there let's do a
ctrl f dog catcher there it is so you
see that it happened just after the news
you can see that in the show notes so
you can start the video at the news and
just skip over it and then the very very
first thing that happens after the news
is your question so all that to just
kind of show you a little bit about the
functionality of our website the new
website is you know opening up to make
it easier for you to find stuff and so
that's why rather than redundantly
answering the question I would encourage
you to learn how to use those services
on our website and episode number 147 or
247 part of me is where you'll find the
answer to that question all right thank
you and Moonshadows says hi Robbie from
Halliburton who was that hi Robbie from
Halliburton moonshadows love you
yeah I know the question we're getting
close we're getting pretty close
moonshadows is the winery there that
does the the maple wine so it's nice to
have you already raised I have maybe
maybe you should sponsor this show
brilliant the rating just went up and
the hosts just became inebriated fanta
yeah I I have something for you that
reminds me it's up in the kitchen I
otherwise i would present it all
gloriously haha yeah you you you at home
you know what I got Krista last week so
I've got one of those for Eric as well
so yeah mm-hmm that is literally all the
time that we have Eric and this is it I
mean tonight is the last show in this
studio can you believe it wow so it's
and that's that's all the time that we
have quite literally so you know what do
we do I mean we're gonna have to tear
this thing down let's tear it up stare
down a you have a fantastic week we'll
see from the new studio next tuesday
night at seven o'clock and boy we've got
our work cut out for us so it begins now
I didn't get to read Roberts question
but hi Robert hey Robert gorsinski yeah
this asiya get your questions in live at
category 5 TV if we didn't get to you
tonight we will do our best to get to
you again in a coming episode but we'll
see you next Tuesday night Eric let's do
this let's do it alright alright
okay so now what check check check check
check recep church checking and could I
get a little Hillary up in this oh yeah
where she handles dish one two three
Hillary word to your mom what's out my
mom
