welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob
Ferguson welcome to episode number 249
of category 5 technology TV nice to see
a great to have you here hey find us
online triple w category 5 TV I'm Ravi
Ferguson I'm Hillary rimmel's keeping a
real like I always do hey Ben yeah it's
nice happening around these days thanks
it's been it's been nice doing the other
people back to back up so much like the
Hillary kinase early start to the Sun
yeah yeah you're overdose of Hillary
then you'll be sick I me so then take
awake then she'll be away for a while
camp thing coming up in the show that's
heavy are consumed yep the chaos begins
very short read her bio on our website
category five TVs you know through the
summer she works at a deaf camp doing I
guess do you do sign language and
everything with okay yeah yeah we've got
lots of fun games and games all the time
fine all the time yeah with sign
language that's so cool it is so very
nice be able to do that yeah well you
won't see me for a while so that's okay
together our three-week fix true say
yeah there's lots come up today on the
show so I hope you're all glued to your
screen because coming up in the newsroom
Twitter's outage on Thursday was a
result of a cascading bug in the Twitter
code wait Twitter was down a Twitter
machine my kid was down
the Google build a computerized brain
and they're looking to use it for
kittens I don't know what that means but
I'm very intrigued I'm very intrigued
additionally sites such as the Pirate
Bay are no longer blocked in India and
lastly a google maps will soon feature
England and Wales waterways as possible
travel routes stick around because these
stories are coming up later in the show
first there was walking now they're
swimming no I presume they're talking
about fairies and boats and stuff assume
so not clocking your kilometers or
whatever yeah I really to know how do
you measure the time that depends on the
tides truces positioning of the moon hey
it's that tuesday the did i mention the
date it's the 26th of june it is 2012 i
learned the hard way that i always need
to say right off the top show what the
date is because otherwise three years
from now I guarantee you somebody on
YouTube is gonna say this is like old
news man like yeah I know I was from
2012 it's now 20 37 good point glad we
cleared that up yeah also to clear this
up in case you out any confusion today's
show is gonna rock as well because we
will be learning how to recover photos
from your camera cards if they've been
deleted or maybe the cards like crash
and went really funky founder file
systems become unreadable we're gonna
fix it using free software free how can
this be Hillary you mean a free lesson
with free software to freely recover
data from your flashcards sound sounds
fantastic too good to be true so stick
around we've got viewer testimonials to
look at tonight thank you for sending
any of your testimonials also i just
want to give a great big shout out and
thank you to those of you viewers who
are actually donating to the show i
don't know if you know or not but we do
receive the occasional donation through
our website you can do so at cat five
dot TV / see the letter C if you like
but we also have a couple of people who
give on a regular basis every single
month they they donate to the show and
that really helps us offset expenses as
you know it does cost money to to run
the show and I'm excited because we're
actually going to be moving just talking
to Hillary before the show category 5 is
going to be moving into a new studio
space and and of course donations really
you know we use donations first and
foremost to help pay the bills internet
fees are of course one of our highest
bills are you know our internet service
our band with our ability to host the
files and do all that kind of stuff we
have just recently started distributing
our video files within mainland China
which as I mentioned on a previous show
does incur some additional expense with
no compensation from advertising as far
as that goes because we have to actually
turn off all the ads on that stuff
because it gets blocked by the Great
Firewall of China so there are expenses
to run the show and and your donations
really help with that and then
advertising is going to go toward you
know any hardware expenses as we need
them and we're going to need to invest
in some portable equipment this fall
because we've got our fifth anniversary
coming up we're going to have to do the
show from a remote location and also
just with the move and getting into a
new space very excited about that and
we're gonna have more information for
you as we get closer to the time pretty
sweet yeah so thank you to everybody who
does donate to the show I mean so much
and I do try to thank you each
personally especially those of you who
donate on a regular basis it's hard to
pop you an email every single time you
donate because it's it happens once a
month and everything and and but I want
you to know that it does make a big
difference and we appreciate it very
much we certainly do hmm you're the best
it's all about the viewers and its
really nice one when you support us for
sure super meaningful yeah it's also
nice when we get your testimonials
because it's just a little bit feedback
that means a lot to ya huge amount to me
to receive those and we love hearing
from people to Lakers it's your
testimony yes oh we got we got
stuffs just hold on people because I got
a bunch here okay this one comes to us
from jot hi after listening shark on the
show thought his songs didn't sound too
good prepare interesting oh that's all
he deserves the support so um he donated
on the site towards Eric thanks John you
know John well enough to know he's a
little tongue-in-cheek and he's saying I
didn't really like the music but I
figured I'd give him money anyway which
was very much yeah but he's that kind of
a joker well he goes on to say then
after receiving the music and playing
them I found out that they suddenly
sounded really a lot better I have to
say great music Eric I hope there will
be more because Eric is really really
talented so that's from geohot so thank
you for joining us on I know Eric
appreciates it that's for sure will
definitely pass it along certainly got
another one here from Clifford Chronicle
Tennessee hi i have been following top
five since day one the difference from
day one to the present is like black and
white to color I know small improvements
with every installment what I really
like is the form of the but the format
is that it's loose and it's easy to
follow the news is great to keep us up
to date as to what's new and the adverts
are believable as they are demonstrated
in the show live mistakes and all I must
comment on your sidekicks they have
graduated from white knuckles to very
relaxed and comfortable they are what
makes the show so much more interesting
I learned before to a special coffee mug
just oh I'm looking for a special coffee
mug just for you Robbie oh you know me
well yeah really nice hate that look
forward to receiving it um keep up the
great work it's excellent Oh what is it
that your daughter saying at the end
that has me scratching my head some
people have said that and like what was
that what was that saying that's
actually my son's ech and at the end of
the show what is he saying do you know
saying cool beans cool beans I love that
it's my favorite part yeah so there you
look forward to that after every show
mystery song unmute the speakers just so
we can hear it yeah
it's ready buddy so thank you for your
message Clifford that was awesome and
one last one coming to us from Hong Jang
from China and Shanghai hi guys i am a
chinese college student and also a linux
user about half the oh I I've read this
before but I'm reading it again sorry I
confuse myself but happy I think he sent
an email at one point but I don't think
we've ever written no we have testimony
on yeah I'm sorry this is a new
testimonial but half a year ago I was
sent to Jeremy due to a cooperative
research project between Europe and
China that's when I discovered this
amazing tech show called category 5
technology TV online i downloaded many
episode and enjoyed the show for most of
my evenings I spent in Germany but
what's really frustrating is that two
months later when I got back to China
the videos have been blocked by the
government of mainland China which means
I can't watch the show anymore either
through the RSS feed or through the
flash player while after a while I sent
you an email to express my frustration
but email that's the email good that's
what was there something becoming clear
to me yeah but then you guys told me
that you were building a new version of
an RSS feed that would avoid the Great
Firewall of China which would be
released july first how wonderful would
that be I simply cannot wait for the big
days coming thanks Robbie I understand
that this kind of thing must cost the
team and extra little extra money and
finances thanks very much for what you
guys have done for the Chinese viewers
as a fan of cat5 I will always support
the show best regards pretty cool thanks
yeah thanks for the update and yeah I
remember the email and yeah thank you
that's where excess feeds going into
mainland China and that's been going
great by the way the system is is
running smoothly and and we're seeing
some subscribers out in China so very
exciting and nice to have you watching
and interacting with the community as
well um there's time zone wise it's it's
12 hours dish right I can't see well I
guess you could you could get up early
in the morning I am catch the show it's
possible it is but it's cool that you
watch all the same and watchers so
that's gonna be part of the show for
sure
um oh I found another testimonial Oh
Bree and I have one postcard I would
like to share with you okay this comes
to us from shamil is now from India well
hello hi I'm a first time you are seeing
this category 5 TV I am very much glad
to see that this is a kind of channel
that this sort of channel exists
category five TV is a very useful for
people who love and like technology the
show of Robbie and Hillary is excellent
Oh hope to see much in the system
administration side thank you awesome
that's cool nice to have you watching
and thank you your testimonials oh sweet
you can send in your viewer testimonials
on our website category five dot TV
click on the interactive you'll see the
viewer testimonials there you love to
receive them and you were saying you've
got a postcard as well where does this
come I love to read the post cards and
receive them this comes from Scotland
Bonnie Scotland okay here begins the
message in quotations awk I the new
question or quotation mark this out is
that like new is that like sang it must
be oh I the new I can't do that what
does it mean I don't know i don't know
hayas Robbie in the game ah hagas and
neeps now he's just playing with us it's
so confusing I don't understand this
language um turnip or sweet I don't get
it welcome from Edinburgh Scotland
contingent from bry Marie fry Marie that
part I knew I recognized recognize that
party hey buddy I wish I knew what neeps
and acai the new mint I know what hagas
is I do not want haggis inside out sheep
stomach cooked so you make it sound so
delicious but thank you for the post
card whoops we love getting them it's
really cool actually sent to us right
from Scotland yeah it's it's glorious
which I look at that beautiful land I'm
supposed to say that on my ferguson true
saying cool yeah check that out so there
oh there that's what I was looking for
oh that's damn it it's tricky though
we're learning there you go orient
yourself probably it's on a kilt yeah
haha love it yeah thanks for sending
that in but pretty sweet and of course
you can send in your viewer postcards
and that will help qualify you for
upcoming contests and everything Hilary
how can they send in their post Kyle
tell you please address your postcards
to category 5 technology TV p.o.box to
9009 Barrie Ontario of course in Canada
l 4 and 7 w 7 look forward to getting
your postcards cuz we love snail mail we
do it takes a long time to get here but
when it arrives we're giddy very we love
it yeah you're gonna be installing a
hard drive tonight that's exciting i
know you've been looking forward to that
especially after last week's little
install I know I'm look at me fro gonna
be hauling all this stuff while they're
gonna be installing a solid state hard
drive in that fit pc3 pardon me can't
say too many vowels with a profit the
Perrier is far that's quite all right
well I'm looking forward to it because I
need to improve my skills one you know
my hardware skills do you and my
software skills Brazil ah but seriously
what is that this is the cutest thing
this core I went to a took the kids to
the strawberry festival and you wouldn't
believe who was whose baby boy you don't
say yeah Eric kid was up on the big
stage and playing at the strawberry
festival at berry hill farms fun follow
them on twitter at berry hill farms but
he gave us a button that's super cool
was that i love it you said you know
hound Eric kid next time he's here at
the studio hey send me a button Billy
and the kid Billy and it sure beats his
other band name I guess
we'll just leave that okay oh boy all
right well we uh we do have to take a
quick break Hillary and much much much
to talk about we've got viewer questions
that have come in throughout the week
and we love to receive those as well
join us in the chat room we'd love to
see there Hillary's got that up I've got
that up and of course you can email us
live at category 5 TV we'll be right
back after this at eco alkalines we
believe you should be able to trust your
batteries not just here but here here
and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here Eco alkalines of the
world's first and only certified carbon
neutral battery manufactured to the
highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance the rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference eco alkalines com
this is category 5 technology TV we're
going to take a really quick travel
through time so bare with us we're going
to jump back about nine episodes in the
past here at category five and then
we're going to come right back to the
future and we're going to see whether
this worked or not here we go back to
episode number 240 with myself and
Rachel shoe garbe says in the chat room
everybody you got to remind me whatever
it was that he needed a reminder for I
said well why don't you trim yet I said
what future me future me org if ever
you're in a situation where you think
well I'd love to receive a note or maybe
someone can give me a reminder head on
over to future me dot org just a
fantastic service it's freely available
all you need to do is enter your email
address live at category 5 TV put in a
subject hello from the past and then
you're just going to enter an email just
like your writing at here's to yourself
hey Robbie did you do that sing with
that thing so these are all of this
Oh Rachel you're terrible terrible so do
you use this all the time like hey
Robbie you're looking good today yeah I
use it to encourage myself and boost
myself up hey Robbie you look fantastic
Wow yeah you can you know if that if
that makes you feel good then go ahead
you know okay did you program that
computer that you were going to program
you dirty dirty girl all right thanks
from Robbie okay so when do you want to
deliver this email it's going to go way
into the future I mean it's defaulting
to 2013 I can deliver it anytime I want
and I'll stand by this program because I
know that this has been here for many
many years okay honestly who needs a
reminder in 2031 I think it falls under
the category of time capsule I think
it's like you know um hey hope you got
that job promotion you were working on
her you know maybe you keep your chin up
there it could be whatever it could be
encouragement to yourself it could be a
reminder that hey you know that cuz it
doesn't have to be 2013 that was like I
got a letter from the government saying
uh I had to send them an update in 2030
and I thought why are they telling me
now as if I'm gonna remember in 2030 I'm
supposed to send on this oh dear yeah
that's kind of crazy okay may first 2012
that's next Tuesday night it's going to
be delivered at any time during that i'm
going to say hey I have a great show
Robbie all right there's my future me
message don't want to add a picture now
are you human e HD k 3 there we go so
now with future me org I'm ready to send
that message into the future sent oh
send eight must be at least 30 days into
the future all right well that's not so
bad well that's lame way cuz what if you
have something want to do tomorrow or
next week don't think it's really a
calendaring system that is its emailing
the future you and yeah 30 days makes
sense so let's just pick a Tuesday night
in so if you get lonely in 30 days
you'll get a special
little message from you okay let's say
jun 26th all right so everybody make no
jun 26 of this here i'm going to receive
that nice little message says have a
great show all right am i human I'm
surprised the date doesn't end after
2012 no it goes all the way to 2062
because they're assuming that the
internet and the world is still going to
be here there we go all right send to
the future gone the future says thanks
for the letter that is very pleasant of
the future to say okay so here we are it
is jun 26 it is back in the studio here
you saw it there on april 24 2012 and lo
and behold in my inbox came a message
from future me or get arrived at 1008
this morning and it says the following
is an email from the past composed two
months in 1 day ago on April 24 2012 it
is being delivered from the past through
future me dot org and there's my message
hey Robbie have a great show thanks
Robbie well I just want to say thanks
Robbie for wishing us great show and I'm
very cool that's future means dot org
send stuff to yourself in the future you
like that not I do like it and I like
this show you're watching category 5 TV
and category 5 TV is a member of the
tech podcast network if it's tech it's
here and the International Association
of Internet broadcasters like so mr. our
mobile website m dot cat five dot TV
so nice and also just a reminder that
this sunday we're launching our brand
new website here at category 5 course
when Jane was excited that we're going
to be launching the RSS feeds directly
in China with the alternate feeds but
there is a lot more to the the brand new
website than just that as well very
excited to be launching that it's going
to make things much much faster and
we're gonna be able to handle the
capacity the category 5 is seeing
because I don't know if you realize but
we were averaging about 60 to 90
thousand views per episode yeah and
we're up we're at about 280,000 views
per episode right now so in the past
year we've seen that kind of growth so
as far as traffic on the website goes it
it's pretty heavy folks yeah pretty
heavy so so we're you know the v3
website the new website the launches on
Sunday July first is a big part of the
venture to be able to accommodate our
wonderful viewers that's you so they
don't get errors when you visit our
website so the things just work because
there's a lot of capacity to fulfill so
sweet we like it when things work we do
we don't like yeah it looks bad on me if
things don't work you know here's the
guy telling us how stuff work and and
then it doesn't work and it's kind of an
oh boy only a couple minutes to do to
get into your viewer questions but we're
gonna do our best I got some right here
and hopefully Robbie can tell us how to
make this work ok ok try this comes to
us from dan hey Dan what do they mean
when they asked if my server is secure i
have apache PHP with PHP my admin well
by day I must assume that we're talking
about the men and black the men the man
the man that brings us down mmm the man
ok haven't you heard of that so when
they're talking about secure and kick
what I'm talking about the man the man
bringing you down okay okay so anyways
um okay Scott Apache PHP my admin and my
SQL doesn't it come Harden
box okay if server setup isn't pre
hardened what steps I need to take to
get the server secured and doesn't
involve just installing modules I've
been asking questions that might take a
whole segment to answer but anyways also
okay what does he say here quick aside
buddy got is blues not country if
anything if the devil's music it's
country cheer from Dan well yes at
garvey Eminem's are great choice they
don't melt in your hand therefore they
don't transfer to the keyboard smile
face cool inside joke of some sort back
to the issue a couple of them okay so
what do they mean when they say secure
Perry is a great thing but I'm seriously
picturing myself in the middle of
discussion here and just belching all of
a sudden and I really don't want to
carbonate it so if I'm like that idea
karbonn all right um okay so when they
say when they the men in black and the
the aliens and all those entities and
everything say that your server needs to
be secure basically without getting into
the technical end of things because we
can't get into real server
administration but you know what they're
probably talking about is SSL like
secure encrypted connection to your end
user because you're you're thinking
along the lines here and rightly so
we're hosted on a Linux computer which
is generally fairly secure as far as you
understand it but are you connecting to
it by ftp which is insecure people can
intercept that and access your password
and everything like that or using ssh or
SFTP which is ftp over ssh which is
secure so that's secure versus insecure
for file transfers if a customer is
saying well do you offer secure web
hosting well what they're talking about
then is ok well I want to do ecommerce
for example where people are going to be
giving their credit card information on
the website that I'm creating more
hosting so do you offer the ability to
encrypt that data flow when you go to
your your bank's website when you do
online banking you see that it's a
secure certificate you get that little
lock and key up in the corner of the
screen or something so what that means
is that you have that
pure encrypted connection that requires
what's called an ssl certificate a
static IP address and you have to
register that IP address with an ssl
authority so you actually have to
purchase that it's a certificate it's
like an encryption key and that gives
you the ability to offer as secure SSL
connections to your server that's most
likely what they're talking about okay
yeah so what did you say then so okay
what steps does he need to take kenton
well just get the certificate find find
a certificate authority that that you
want to work with to purchase your your
certificate I could tell you you know
they're there are many out there let's
just see here I'll just grab one just
for an example yeah just for an example
here we go just bring up a website here
bring up the certificate certificate
information geotrust Inc so to purchase
from them and your web ho if you're if
you're hosting it yourself then that's
one thing geotrust calm cells ssl
certificates right so you can you can
get that here by ssl even have something
called a free trial i don't know what
that is but anyways that's that's
probably the first place i would start
it sankyo trust what makes sense they
sound trustworthy no I actually use them
for some of the ssl sites that i run so
okay okay good example thank you cheers
question good luck it is a little tricky
but there are lots of forums and things
to help you with it and geo trust me
even be able to assist to some degree as
well good question I'm wondering should
we do some news or should we do another
question one more question I need to get
a question in here he'll okay we're just
gonna just pack it in there at the last
three minutes before the news okay here
we go this goes to us from Eddie hey
Maddie dear friends my laptop is a sony
vaio recently i upgraded from a boon to
11 point 10 to 12 point oh four okay
after installation when i rebooted the
system the problem is now
that I'm not getting a home screen and
what appears to just be a black screen
with a cursor i also have windows
installed on the same machine please let
me know what I should be doing
changeable into again that could be a
few different things my the first thing
that comes to mind is if you used a CD
media if you burn to a CD for example I
want to make sure that the the iso file
that you burnt from was still good
there's that Perrier um if it did what I
want to know is did you by any chance
use just the automatic upgrade process
through like the dist upgrade on apt-get
or did you like to do start with it and
then upgrade through the repositories or
did you actually reinstall that would be
that would be a deciding factor are they
joining us in the chat room by chance
would love to know but so hard to say I
would say that you know my first my
first concern would be that if you had a
bad iso and you were and you burnt it to
a CD and then you installed without
verifying the md5 checksum it may have
installed a botched copy could be fixed
maybe using like sue is super grub disc
or something like that I'll post the
link in the show notes for episode
number 249 but I would say you know
reinstalling the Ubuntu portion if
that's an option I might suggest getting
a new new iso download verify the md5
checksum and and then we reburn re
reinstalled just that partition if
that's possible but send us some more
information if that's you know if that's
not if I'm not on the right track it
depends on how you went about the
install and what the actual problem is
but could be video drivers you may be
able to at the grub menu hit the letter
e and edit the Gros Ventre and make some
modifications there maybe use a vesa
driver or something force a vesa driver
edit your xorg there's so much stuff
right sorry dude try a few things and
then we're back and maybe we can better
pinpoint the problem
get into the chat room in category 5 TV
lots of wonderful community members here
and we'd love to help you there's the
forum at forum dot cat 5 or forum
category 5 TV is another place and of
course there's the ubuntu forums which
is the ultimate place to get help when
it comes to a boon to very cool give it
a whirl let us know how you good luck
and do please let us know mm-hmm tory
that time it's the time here are the top
news stories from the category 5
document newsroom twitter com blamed a
cascading bug for rendering the social
networking sites accessible on skating
bug there you have it and what will they
say next users from around the world
reported difficulties logging on to the
site after problems started at about
1700 BST what's BST do you know know now
that I think about it I don't actually
know I don't know what BST is I know
what DST is I know it yeah bermuda
savings time uh-huh if you know let us
know bug cascades man sometimes thursday
is some time on thursday yeah thursday o
clock was crazy cascading the service
was affected for around two hours while
engineer sought to solve the issue in a
blog post twitter dismissed reports that
had been hacked and offered its sincere
apologies to its users cascading bug is
one with an effect that isn't confined
to a particular software element but
rather its effects cascade into other
elements as well explained mazon rah-rah
ishida the size vice president of
engineering one of the characteristics
of such a bug is that it can have a
significant impact significant impact on
all users worldwide which was the case
today this goes on to say that as soon
as we discovered it we took corrective
actions which included rolling back to a
previous stable version of twitter i
would have just got a flyswatter rock
doc cascading bug out of the way just
get rid of it made moving onwards a
google research team has trained a
network of 1000 computers wired up like
a brain to recognize
pants the team built a neural network
which mimics the working of a biological
brain as that worked out how to spot
pictures of cats in just three days wow
way to go fake brain the cat's body
computer was created as a part of a
larger project to investigate machine
learning google is planning to use the
learning system to help with it
injecting in indexing systems and with
language translation what is interesting
about it though is that this this
machine super machine or would ever
actually have the thought processes to
say okay I'm going to set out to see
cats that's bizarre and then just
generated a list of tons and tons of cat
pictures it's really fascinating what's
next Oh a thousand computer brain
machine from google reminds me of kat
klub Carolyn when I went to college but
that's another story for another day had
a cat club maybe I'll tell you hosted by
the cat lady no worse than the cat lady
oh do ok web users in India are once
again able to access video and file
sharing sites including thepiratebay the
country's madra madras high court has
changed earlier centre ship in order to
sorry i lost my train of thought they
change the censorship order and which
centered around the issue of the
internet copyright the original ruling
made indian internet service providers
isp block access to the entire sites to
prevent a single film from being shared
online the new order was issued falling
an appeal filed by the consortium of
ISPs it states the only specific web
addresses URLs carrying the pirated
content should be blocked but not the
entire website hmm that makes a little
more sense think so gotta say yeah block
the content the concern that I have over
censorship really is not it's the it's
the accidental distributor like if I for
example we did a show and we've
mentioned a particular website or a
viewer bench the website we put it in
our show notes not we've never looked at
the website we've never crawled through
the pages we don't know if they
of something yeah but they're
distributing that we don't know about
right so should that make us get blocked
I don't know that's the thing talking
about an issue as an issue but then are
you perpetuating the issue possibly
that's very confusing I'm so confused Oh
lastly our last story of the day google
map users may soon find it easier to
plan a trip on some of england and wales
waterways the u.s. search engine has
teamed up with the canal and river trust
a charity that will be in charge of the
two countries water network from july
the deal includes updating google maps
to include 2,000 miles of canal and
river paths currently waterways are not
list on google maps as active rude
people can use to move about well fair
enough i want i'm going to see google
water view that's next underneath who
knows okay you can get these full
stories online at category 5 TV /
newsroom category 5 TV news room is
researched by rho w nosh with
contributions from our awesome community
of viewers if you have a story you
think's worthy of honor mention send us
an email at newsroom I category 5 TV I'm
Hillary knots the news thanks oh this is
category 5 technology TV you'll find us
online triple w category 5 TV and
tonight's show is of course brought to
you in part by garden gate farms com for
certified organic broccoli sprout and
wheatgrass juice is it garden gate farms
com also quarter electric the official
electrical company of category 5 TV
visit them online at triple w quarter
eee electric com all right ready to get
your hands dirty on some some hardware
hacks pitter patter it's not really
let's get at her i can do any dremel in
or anything crazy like that okay well
we've been looking at this fit pc the
fit pc3 you can find out more about it
at cat five dot TV / fit fi t you
believe this is actually a pc computer
no i don't listen well it looks like a
router doesn't
stuff that you would expect from router
this is I'm just looking at the base
here one point six five gigahertz
dual-core APU whoa it's got a radeon HD
6320 graphic card two gigs of ram it's
got let's see a 250 gig hard drive with
Linux Mint already installed love dual
Wi-Fi antennas it's got BGN Bluetooth
three and four and a couple well for us
be up front to USB three at the back two
more USB to Ethernet that looks like
displayport to e-sata and one HDMI as
well which I look at that actually am I
DisplayPort got it I thought that was a
router cool it looks like it doesn't it
so what we're actually gonna do we're
gonna get a close up here sleepin really
see what this thing looks like this is
there's there's no moving parts in here
except for the hard drive so tonight
what we're gonna set out to do Hillary
we're gonna eliminate that one moving
part we're going to throw a cheap SSD
hard drive into this device just to see
how difficult or how easy this really is
how heavy is this it is pretty heavy I
don't know if you want to give that it I
feel hell heavier than you would
anticipate yes but not uber heavy yeah I
don't know maybe like five or six pounds
yeah give or take okay so first thing
we're gonna do Hillary we're gonna pull
these antennas off which just our
standard you know screw on i think they
call them smc or something like that
antennas for Wi-Fi what's nice about
having this ability is that you can get
decibel boosters you can plug in bigger
antennas you can plug in outside and
tennis whatever you know but there you
have it there's the back of it so i'm
gonna i can actually let you once again
i got only yeah you know oh boy oh boy
here we go oh ok ok we have a
screwdriver all you need and i picked up
this thing i mean ii can get SSD hard
drives for so cheap these days this is
just an 8 gigabyte but what we're gonna
do reason i've got such a small hard
drive it's only 40 bucks it's solid
state it means we're going to have
absolutely no moving parts there are no
fans because as you
here this whole thing is actually a heat
sink so it distributes the heat evenly
and gives you a nice cool system even
though there are no fans that's
incredible so by removing the hard drive
and putting in a solid state drive now
you could go with a bigger heart pardon
me a bigger hard drive we're just gonna
go with a small one because we're gonna
create this as essentially this is going
to become a solid state server that's
going to connect to a separate storage
device it's got SATA go ahead and take
out that one on it but I wanted everyone
so you started with the right screw too
well done I'm not a total goofball okay
but every your cell line so follow the
arrows it's pretty straightforward this
arrow yep so that is the actually
physically the hard drive so you're
you're dismounting the hard drive as
you're doing that so see I give it a bit
of a pressure because you're actually
unplugging the hard drive there you go
light okay and then you can lift up at
the far end and just flip that over and
you can see that that is the spinning
hard drive that came with the unit so
we've got the RAM modules down here the
Wi-Fi chip and you can see the
motherboard and everything like that so
there are four screws that are on this
mounting Oh yep for four screws that are
on this mounting bracket what what I'll
get you to do is I'll get you to remove
those screws and at the same time I'm
going to get into this packaging okay
this is a Kingston 8 gigabyte SSD now 40
bucks I mean it was just a cheap SSD
hard drive to get us entirely
solid-state so with this system now what
we're experimenting with and what I want
you to try with the fit pc cat5 TV / fit
is you're actually able to you know here
we're going to create a solid state
server alternative so it generates very
very little heat it uses very very
little power and it can connect into our
main server so what do you have a let's
say I've got a nun rate box if you've
got a freenas box or network attached
storage or something that you want to
use for your hard drive space then great
if I got a you know an external raid
unit that you want to just plug directly
in through SATA that's fine too
here we go and I have done all my
unscrewing okay so now here's the new
hard drive this is solid state
something's there are no moving parts
we're going to take out the moving part
hard drive case is the old-style kind
with the spinning matter okay and the
the needles and all that here we go it's
just gonna go right in there all right I
can handle that okay let's bring it
right in here black look at me easy
breezy Lynette nobody yeah the SATA
ports on this device are actually built
into the chassis you can see they're
right here the header is actually the
backplane and it's built into you know
it's it's kind of integrated into the
aluminum chassis so when we put that
back in here it's actually sliding that
in is actually going to make the
connection to the backplane any other
questions in the chat room this is a
great time nice thing again about this
is that it can be headless we can just
put it in the back room somewhere and it
becomes a very powerful server you
consider servers are not usually the
most powerful as far as speed goes
computers but here we've got a system
that is what did I say one point one
point six five gigahertz so essentially
we're just gonna now we've got that
solid state hard drive now we just put
that in there and there you go i put it
the right way up right what if somebody
lesser lesser than I just kidding well
we put it in there put it the same way
the face yeah we put it in the same way
that we took out the other drive just
wanted to double chin it's only gonna go
one way because the hard drive actually
see if I can show you on this one
that's difficult cameras backwards to us
it's inverted so the screw hole is
closer to this edge and it is to this
edge so if I were to accidentally put
that in upside down the screw hole is
going to be too far away from the actual
screw hole if that makes sense make
sense to mount that into the fit pc3
certainly there you go so we're
switching this to a solid-state device
so you want to lay that down the drive
flat first and then slide it across it's
going to snap right into the mac plan
there you go put in the one screw so
this particular device now we can we r
going to install Debian Linux on a
future show and we're also going to now
with debian linux on there we're going
to put a lamp stack which is linux
apache mysql and PHP so we're going to
basically turn this thing into a dreamy
little web server and done and done it's
solid state we can put it anywhere there
you go nice and snug you did a great job
thank you cool did it I'm awaiting the
next step but it was so easy we did it
like three steps that was easy the fit
pc can be found and had at cat five TV /
fit fi t again hard to believe that it's
an actual full-fledged computer and it
is desktop worthy as far as its HD
graphics if you want to do gaming on it
why great we're gonna go the server
route the first time around we're gonna
do some experimenting with this we're
gonna have a lot of fun with this over
the next little while because hey
weekend we can play around see what it's
capable of and that's step one we're
gonna turn this puppy into a nice little
apache server cool yeah antennas on oh
yeah forgot to put the antennas back on
there we go but there's just so easy to
screw back on tastes like two seconds
there are multiple different models of
the fit PC people asking about pricing
you can get the pricing right off of
their website cap five dot TV / fit and
that there are the different models
available there you can see the pricing
and there are there are other units
provided by the company as well so do
check it out highly recommend it and
I've been using it as now what i did is
i put a virtual machine with linux
linux on VirtualBox on the fit PCA so
the host OS was Linux Mint that came
stock out of the box and then the guest
OS was Debian with basically my rsync
script and backup service everything
that synchronizes to my off-site backup
and I basically just took my off-site
backup system which is that great big
server that I showed you last time we
looked at the fit bc that basically eats
up a lot of power and I put it on this
thing which uses only 11 watts of power
with the spinning drive I have a feeling
when we test this next time now that
we've got a solid state hard drive in
there the power consumption is even
going to be lower yeah then it was
before that's cool so very very excited
about the cost savings as far as power
and hydro goes and the fact that it is
entirely solid-state now means that it's
gonna get some very very good life we
don't have any moving parts to maintain
yeah you might run a vacuum over once in
a while to get the dust off just in case
but ago Wow very cool yeah and I did it
you did it well that we thank you this
is category 5 technology TV and you'll
find us online triple w category five
dot TV so nice to have you here very
excited about our new website the launch
is this Sunday make sure you check it
out first and for you know get on there
sunday afternoon if you want get on
there monday and take a look at the
website and oh so so excited about it
mm-hmm and of course Canada Day coming
up happy Canada Day to all of our
Canadian friends nice to have you here
as well we're based in Barrie Ontario
here and happy to be Canadian true say
mm-hmm so let's see we are gonna look at
recovering photos I'm gonna have a sip
of my water here yes we're going to
learn how to get your pictures off your
your memory card that went mega funk or
you accidentally deleted it or like the
files are corrupt or unreadable let's
figure out how to do this because stuff
like this happens to me all the time
yeah and I don't know who is this
somebody's camera this is my daughter's
camera I mean I'm a daddy and so I deal
with this all the time we wrapped camera
cards because what our kids notorious
for its the one thing that I'll say
never ever
do when you're using digital cameras
running down the battery all the way
tells you that the battery's low and yet
what do you do you want to get that last
picture so you turn it on again there's
not enough power to power the camera so
what happens file system corruption
you'll lose everything on your camera
card try to get that through to a
seven-year-old doesn't get it so we've
cut the camera card is just a standard
SD card and we're gonna learn tonight
how to recover the data from a corrupted
card or perhaps you deleted the files by
accident you know tally will be working
here and there's a little delete can't a
trashcan button for the for the photos
and won't be easy to push that instead
of going right for example and that's
happened before too so daddy is the hero
because daddy knows how to use photorec
which is a part of test disk sweet it's
available for Windows Linux and Mac and
it is a free piece of software we're
gonna try it on Linux today we're gonna
learn how to do that so I've got the
camera card already plugged into the
computer after turn that it's right
there so if I look at my computer
there's my camera card it is empty what
did i do I went through and I actually
deleted all the photos on that desk how
could you oh the humanity can't believe
it but it's okay because I have faith in
photorec okay first and foremost I'm
gonna create a folder on my desk topping
to call this recovered there you go 0
items because currently there's nothing
in it oh and you know there's nothing in
my on my desk either okay so I'm going
to go I'm going to do this in terminal
folks because that'll be fun you can do
this through synaptic package manager if
you want of course if you're on Windows
or Mac we will post the link in the show
notes for episode number 249 so you can
download a copy for your operating
system so sudo apt-get update
it's going to get the latest list from
the repositories there we go talk
amongst yourselves sip some water there
we go okay not worried about that error
don't worry sudo apt-get install here's
what you got to remember it's not called
photo reckon suit in apt-get it's called
test disk it's a part of the test disk
suite which is a free data recovery
suite so I've gone sudo apt-get install
test disk zoomed in so close I can't see
and it's moving up there it is okay so
it just went at it it's not even asking
me any questions it's just going at it
there we go okay now at your terminal
here with the disk plugged in and an
empty folder on my desktop I'm going to
type in the word photo wreck it does
require sudo but I wanted to demonstrate
for you a couple of the neat features
about this first of all it detects that
the window is not big enough so please
enlarge the window so I'm going to
create create a bigger window it
automatically has fixed it it says no
hard disks found what does it say you
need to be route to use photorec so now
at the bottom you can actually push
enter to force a pseudo which is to
create a super user environment if you
haven't already entered your password
the session it would have prompted all I
had to do is press enter so I'm seeing
my SDA that's my internal hard drive sdb
is another internal hard drive and then
SDC is my 1 gigabyte card from the
camera so in the click enter please
select the partition type you can select
it if you know it I'm going to suggest
that we allow a sector-by-sector scan
which means we're going to tell photorec
that there is no partition we're just
going to allow you to read every single
sector that way if partitions were
deleted if we're looking at for files
that were on an old format you'll still
be able to recover those
so here we go I'm going to go none type
of partition it's automatically
defaulted to fat16 because most likely
it's detected that that's what it is but
again same reason I want to go unknown
okay because what does it do it's going
to scan the whole disk rather than
partitioned by partition enter now this
is important what type of file system do
you think it was was it a Linux file
system EXT two three or four or was it
something else such as fat or ntfs which
are windows and das formats hfs+ which
is Mac Reaser FS which is a Linux file
system so i'm going to select other
because this is my camera i know that my
camera is most likely a fat fat 32 or
fat16 file system ok so that's the
default we're going to choose is called
other hit enter now the next step is
saying where do you want to save it you
just scroll down to your desktop scroll
over to recovered is the folder that I
created see there's the recovered folder
on my desktop enter and now what do you
do simply over here it's described here
you just want to press Y which is
basically saying okay yes I am in the
folder that I want to save the files to
important note about photorec is and
what did i do I first of all selected
the source medium which was my camera
card now i'm selecting a destination
medium and you notice that the
destination medium is my on my desktop
so I'm never writing anything to the
disk so I'm not going to overwrite any
sectors I'm not going to lose access to
that data because sector by sector is
going to be copied to my internal hard
drive never over writing the camera card
very very important and some data
recovery software won't will let you
encourage that sometimes they'll recover
to the same medium which is crazy I
think those are the you know the free
ones that malware ones the ones you want
to stay away from don't go into google
and type free data recovery software
because you're bound to get a virus I
guarantee a blanket okay with photorec
on the other hand we're ready to go step
by step we walked through it we're going
to press Y here it goes scanning the
whole disk
whoa estimated time 42 seconds not bad
not too shabby I let's see what happens
hmm this is incredible we need like
intense music Donna no no no no don't
don't don't this is going sector by
sector through metin that one gigabyte
disk I kind of want to leave this up on
the screen as boring as it seems right
now it's exciting if it works because
remember we're scanning a disk that is
entirely empty I had deleted all the
photos from that disk so we've got a
couple seconds left five seconds left is
the estimate
well now it's going it's going for
another pass and it's got 50 seconds
okay no files found don't moment of
truth the heart is thumping because you
know we love to do things live here we
do we want to know does it work does it
really work OSS photorec a part of the
test disk sweet it's absolutely free and
available for Linux Windows or Mac and
of course you can install it right from
your repositories using the test disk
meta package there's one jpg has been
recovered two JPEGs recovered two files
saved into my recovered recoup directory
recovery completed so it has gone
through a moment of truth let's check on
my desktop let's jump into that
recovered folder I've got this new one
called recoup der dot one what do we
have lo and behold would you look at
that it's Hillary's girl band area look
at that neon and crazy hair we're
talking about this last weekend I said
you know if I could ever find the photos
and then somebody went and deleted them
how and now hey there we go she looks
like it well you all look like you're
rocking it out we we were we're
definitely rocking out and the smoke
machine go in and the lights and well I
two times now Hilary that's all fine and
good that's fantastic beautiful picture
really well done i'm sure the concert
was amazing but i needed to explain
something to me what oh my goodness okay
please just okay i'm like mask sometimes
there are no words however that's kind
of that's where i was going at it yeah
if you must know as i work at the camp i
yes get in touch with my inner child and
you have to be silly for the kit for the
kids for the kids a chance part of the
kids and that's my sister and she is
dressed up as Miss Piggy and I'm cold
rock Oh brilliant and you're hopin ya or
flyin she kind of looks like she could
be up up and away
it is ridiculous that's amazing hell
thanks for the laughs oh no problem so
we actually recovered those pictures
they were going I'm glad we recovered
them because its title he so glad that
we didn't ask those yeah she's probably
like I wish that thing didn't work
stupid photorec things too too good oh
boy were funny well I'm glad to recover
those and I'm glad you were able to see
them world the entire world wide web was
able to see that there we go well thanks
for being a good sport and that's just
that is an amazing tool works a lot of
the time it's not just for photos either
but document files videos if you take
videos with your camera I can recover
those i highly recommend the test disc
sweet mm-hmm as i said i'll post links
in the show notes for episode number 249
but just so you know if you're watching
this live it's CG security org the
letter c g security org and you'll find
test us there but the the deep link is /
wiki / test disk with a capital T
capital B and there you have it download
binaries oh it's got other os's as well
I didn't realize son bsd but i guess
that's kind of Allah given but good
stuff very cool have fun tonight I
didn't have fun I always have fun don't
you have fun tonight they did the entire
audience of the world have fun I know it
I know they did and the chat room is
hilarious i'm just reading some of the
comments i love you chat room they're so
fun and a funny so it's not easy being
green they're all talking about Colonel
current I that photo I tell you well
stay tuned world because this summer you
don't even know what craziness I'll be
up to she's got a video camera now folks
you don't know you don't even know just
that's all I'm saying that's a little
teaser stay tuned we've got we're
constantly getting a lot of your viewer
questions and I apologize we're unable
to get to everyone every show but we do
our best to you know roll them over if
we didn't get to them this week so know
that if you did send an email if you
sent in a question we weren't able to
attend to it we are gonna do our best to
get to it over the next couple of shows
so thank you for being here I guess camp
is starting up and we'll be sorry wish
rightly so you might not see me so much
but I'll be here in spirit hmm and
possibly in other ways our fifth
anniversary show coming up you're gonna
be there for that the wedding is coming
up oh yeah birthday is coming up anyway
so much going on this is quite though
who has time for a birthday we have all
these other things on lake this is crazy
yeah and also of course next time you're
here it's quite possible that we'll be
in the new studio that's true so it
won't actually be here pretty crazy
don't forget new website this Sunday
Hillary great to see you thank you
thanks for having me here and thank you
for tuning in once again on the best
show on the planet category five mmm I
still want to say get your postcards in
this week Hillary was mentioned the
address at the top of the shared earlier
on in the show to the bottom of our
website but do remember we have another
magic jack with a full year service I'm
talking free long distance anywhere in
Canada or the u.s. sounds good to me all
expenses paid for an entire year you can
call anywhere in Canada us no fees and
you'll have your telephone service
provided for you we're giving that away
you've got to either give us a call to
5452 to 85 88 that's 25 45 cat5 TV give
us a call leave us a voicemail telling
us why you think that you would that you
should win a magicjack what you'd like
to do with it and that's the magic jack
plus i should say and also let us know
who you are where you're calling from
otherwise send us a postcard just like
like brian murray did this week and that
now UCF added
I'll here because we're going to shuffle
those up and those are going to be
included in the contest so you're going
to have a chance to win if you send us a
postcard to so get those in this week we
love to receive them again the address
is at the bottom of our website category
5 TV hope you have a great summer thank
you possum sometimes take care of the
way have a great week
