welcome to episode number 296 of
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
the twenty first of may 2013 I'm Robbie
Ferguson I'm crystal walls welcome hey
Krista yeah are things excellent good
how about you Oh excellent what's new um
you know nothing too new just work work
work work category five what else oh
yeah I'm uh I got I said yes to a boy
nice just metal congratulations buddy
just madam you'll have to talk in the
chat room after the show and tell
everybody all about it was freckly so I
got dazed and confused yeah yes but
congratulations laughing yeah yeah let's
have a look at what's coming up in the
newsroom more important awesome things
mm-hmm so even the government accounts
top blueprints of a 3d printed gun hmm
rescue robots are getting a boost in
their abilities thanks to a tiny insect
stick around to find out how according
to a Senate committee Apple is one of
the largest tax avoiders in the US what
could this mean for the technology giant
look out your yahoo account may not be
safe and finally a 15 million million
dollar computer is being installed at a
NASA facility to give Google the power
to create a site cybernetic intelligence
who that's most full stick around these
stars are coming up later in the show
awesome hey tonight we're going to be
learning all about how to use the cloud
the cloud to speed up your website by
simply changing a couple of lines of
code to host your JavaScript elsewhere
don't go anywhere we'll be right back
this is category 5 technology TV
at eco alkalines we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference Eco alkalines calm this is
category 5 technology TV hey check out
our mobile website mcat five dot TV it
has been upgraded along with a bunch of
features on our main website category 5
TV but our mobile site has been upgraded
this week and you should be able to
watch live across any mobile device
doesn't matter if you're on blackberry
iOS Android Windows Mobile I think that
pretty much any smartphone you'll be
able to tune in so check that out m dot
cat5 TV and of course we've got radio as
well we've got category 5 technology
radio which is available to you if
you're driving around and you don't
think it's quite safe to actually use
your mobile handheld and watch the show
while you're driving i know in danger
alright i said something really cool
happen sometimes it does just like that
we are the cause of like 14 accidents
every tuesday night so be careful of
course nobody's hurt it's just you know
just hitting little speed bumps and
things you got to be careful of those
speed bumps but regardless yeah the
radio feature is pretty awesome as well
for you to be able to listen to the live
show so yeah yeah and catagory that's
right to eat get used to it too as a
member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech is here and the international
association of internet broadcasters
thanks for stuff we've added a new
feature on our website i mentioned
we've been doing a couple of little
things here and there to improve things
for you but on our website category five
dot TV you'll see that actually in the
show notes for episodes now we have a
really cool new feature I know it seems
like you know this you say oh galleries
that's cool but look at this we've
actually got pictures hi res pictures
and these are provided a lot of times
from our resident friend heather bailey
brown and we love having these on our
website so be able to get access to to
those photos right on our website that
the new gallery is going to be growing
over the next little while so how cool
is that very cool welcome to our new
registered viewers as well we do you
have a list there of some of the
registrations these are all fantastic
name mmm there is a VA 7 m n would that
be like vanam sure that mean that sounds
cool it's like Batman but it's bad in
the night yeah just still cool owl yeah
mmm there's someone had fun with their
keyboard asdfasdf welcome ASDF was taken
so they went with asdfasdf way better
wonder what their password is hjkl twice
yeah and uh Bologna danza Bologna danza
nice to have you joining us here at
category 5 TV hey if you like to become
a registered viewer its free go to
category five dot TV and you'll be able
to get some cool features that are only
available to registered viewers you can
get that at triple w category 5 TV
tonight we're learning to make our
websites faster using content
distribution networks and specifically
we're looking at javascript tonight so
you've got a website idea i was
obviously have a website one of the
things that we have to really take into
account when when we're building our
websites when we're maintaining these
websites is that we want to have a
performing really well performing
website you want people to be able to
get there and it loads pretty much
instantaneously if we bring up category
5 TV
we'll bring up my browser you know
things load awfully quick you don't
really notice a delay and that's because
a lot of work has gone into the fact
that it should be really really fast to
have your website load and it's tough I
mean a website such as category 5 TV is
very how would you say it's very rich in
content it's very visually rich the
graphics are exceptional graphic
designer for hire over here shameless
promotion yeah so it's it's it's pretty
awesome but how does it run so fast well
we take advantage of things like content
distribution minification and and
different things like that so tonight
we're kind of getting our feet wet and
looking at a technology that's going to
allow you to move JavaScript off of your
own web server and put it into the cloud
excellent yeah so what is the cloud I
mean the cloud really you've heard the
term is essentially just faster
computers than your own server and
they're all interconnected and so
because they're interconnected they talk
to each other and they can determine
which is going to be the best server to
serve you up the viewer of the the
website to serve you up the content so
for example our content distribution
network here at category five we have
positions in Japan in America several in
America a few in Canada some in Europe
as well so that if you happen to go you
know say you're in the Netherlands for
example and you and you hit the website
you're going to actually be served up
copies of files from a server that's
more local to you rather than getting it
from our Canadian server for example
content and content distribution does
exactly that so how do we leverage that
technology on simply JavaScript for
example so I want to look at a couple of
things first thing that we're going to
do is we're going to look at a tool
that's called fancy box because I don't
know if you've used that before it's a
great free tool I'm just going to go to
fancy box calm and when we know not fun
that's
on it fancy apps pardon me I don't know
what that is that we just advertise
fancy apps com sometimes that'll happen
there we go i they're gonna say that was
a really fancy or looking high on fancy
apps you can get fancy box and you can
go licensed and download and you can
download there's version 2.1 point for
reason that we want to do that is we
want to have simply a script that we
know to be a reliable jquery javascript
website so that we can test this thing
out so what is you know looking at what
fancy box is it's basically one of these
kind of things so you get light boxes
and are able to go through photos in a
gallery type system right very nice but
uses a lot of JavaScript because that's
the nature of this kind of programming
so what I'm going to do is I'm actually
going to put that up on our web server
at demo cap five dot TV / 0 15 here we
go demo cat five TV / 2015 and I've
uploaded it to a folder called normal
and then you'll see in demo there's an
actual demonstration copy of the script
there we go so another tool that we can
use that is really really helpful to
utilize and to be able to determine the
speed and performance and how we can
improve upon those things on our website
is it's easily available through your
browser I'm going to bring it up here it
is GT metrics com m ET r IX and you just
paste in any URL there and hit go it's
actually going to test our website to
see how fast that website is if you have
a website why don't you pop it in there
GT metrics calm and determine how fast
your website runs compared to other web
sites on the web and it also gives you
some great suggestions on how to make it
faster and then you can start looking at
things and say oh here's some ways to
make it a little bit faster yeah yeah so
my GT metrics report has come back I've
got
efore page speed and a c4 why slow and
page load time is 0.7 three seconds not
too bad but considering all it is is
fancy box that's all it is right it is
pretty large they're pretty pretty slow
hands probably the e rating so you see
that this not to get too much into this
tool but you see that it does offer some
helpful tips here's what you could do to
make things faster right because speed
is really where it's at when it comes to
our website we want it to load fast what
we're going to do tonight is we're going
to be able to do that we're going to
make things faster without any
compromise we're not going to change
anything about our website good just a
couple of things in our code shall we
good let's go all right ready to see
this okay so now what I'm going to do
I've got that saved to my desktop
there's the fancy apps download from
fancy apps com make sure you pronounce
the peas people fancy apps com all right
and bring up my filezilla here and do a
quick upload just so that we have a copy
to work on
demo cat5 TV / 0 15 I'm throwing that in
there here we go a couple more files
there we go ok now I'm going to name
this one CDN so now we have an exact
copy of that application but it's now in
the CDN folder so you know that it is
exactly the same thing there there have
been no changes to this script yet but
this is just in another folder so we can
test against itself so we're going to
open that up and we know that we're
looking in the demo folder this is
strictly for the sake of the
demonstration but keep in mind of course
you're going to be editing files on your
own website so this could be your index
dot PHP or perhaps your header PHP or
whatever you ended up calling it when
you build the website if you're using
WordPress or something like that it
might be part of your template so you
could actually open your template file
and make these same changes to make your
WordPress blog faster so before I
actually start editing this code you see
that there's the code for just the the
demonstration page that comes with fancy
box I want to take a look at the
technology that we're going to be
utilizing content distribution networks
are available from you know google
offers a great way to be able to get
your JavaScript libraries and things
like that but there's another one that's
provided by cloudflare called CDN jas
that's the one that we're going to be
really focused on tonight because our
performance tests have really shown that
that one performs better and you can
find out more in my blog and we'll bring
that up so understanding of course
javascript is the code that allows you
to do some of the more advanced kind of
things on your website without flash
like the jQuery JavaScript functions and
files and things if for example I look
at the source code of this page you see
that it's actually linking to a bunch of
JS files JavaScript and these files
contain other code and that's what
actually makes it work there's jquery
and that's a min ified file so it's
wider than it is tall lots and lots of
functionality there that
provided by JavaScript functions and
classes and all that stuff so so that's
all part of it now what we want to do is
just make it faster wait easy breezy
right right listen without Messi nazy
not without messing anything up
preferably that's the idea i mean if you
can do this and make your website much
much faster with no compromise with no
risks and your website visitors are just
vote wow it loads really really quick
i'll just divisi like 10 times instead
of one you just hit they're really gonna
sit there my freshman mm-hmm and we are
literally just getting our feet wet okay
so the first of all I want to go up to
Google and we're going to actually bring
up the google version of jQuery for
example jquery so it's developers google
com / libraries / dev guide doesn't
really matter but a google search gets
you there and i will post a link in the
show notes for episode number 296 but
you notice here that available libraries
okay reason that i want to show you this
is i want to show you how much more
versatile cdnas is because google really
restricts the amount of JavaScript
libraries that are available to you and
and tools that are available so there
are the available libraries from google
fine and dandy so if i go to jquery i
can actually grab this snippet of code
to put jquery into the header of my
website so that I no longer have to pull
it from my own web server so to put it
into context what's actually happening
is when somebody hits my website are
they going to load all of the files from
my server which means my server
resources are all that it's using or is
it going to go out and grab some of
those resources from outside and servers
and be able to speed up the process and
and do everything in a synchronous lee
so that it happens kind of all at once
from all different servers and then boom
it's up on your screen that's what we
want to get to so instead of actually
hosting everything on our server
like we are with that demo code so
there's jquery 44 as provided by google
so keeping in mind that they don't
really offer a whole lot okay so now
we're going to go to CD njs calm just
like content distribution network
JavaScript okay and this system by
cloudflare which has been basically
picked up by cloudflare is an
exceptional tool for any web developer
look at as I scroll how many tools are
here so if you're already using say a
JavaScript photo gallery or a JavaScript
tool of sorts or jQuery or something
like that chances are really really good
that the script files are available
through CDN Jas and if that's the case
we can host them on on the in the cloud
basically no having to upload no having
to keep things you know up to date or
whatever it is right there pardon me
okay so I'm going to go back to my code
here and I see first and foremost the
first javascript file is loading from my
server and it's jquery version 1.9 ok so
at CD njs com I simply want to use the
search up at the top just to just to
make things faster you don't have to use
the search but it just makes it easier
i'm going to type in jquery and i'm
going to get a lot of results because
it's also going to give me results for
jquery plugins but the one that i
actually want is the actual jquery
library ok so if I click on that and go
over here two versions and files up I
didn't mean to actually click on the
name of it that actually takes me away
let's go back here ok jquery come on
sorry about that folks jquery there it
is here over at the right hand side you
see an orange button that says version
inversions and files and if i click on
that you see version 2.0 version 1.9
point one and the one that we're looking
for is actually 1.9
you'll see that there are a few
different versions this is the full
uncompressed jquery jas but then when
you see this one here jquery Minjae s
that means that the file has been
minified which means it's a much smaller
file than this one but they both contain
the exact same data so I'm going to grab
the minified copy just by pointing to it
and hitting ctrl C and then I'm going to
replace that in my source code so no
longer am I going to be loading it from
dot dot slash lib my local server I'm
going to be loading it from CD njs type
cloudflare blah blah blah it's going to
be getting it from there so now going to
grab all the ones that I possibly can
you'll see that the rest of them are
pretty much to do with fancy box and
there's some CSS files as well so let's
go back to CloudFlare the CD njs here go
up to the top we're going to type in
fancy box and you see there it is so
they actually have the tool that we want
but we want to go versions and files and
we are on version 2.1 point for but we
want to grab the appropriate files the
CSS files and the JS files so we'll
start at the top here jquery fancybox
j/s version 2.1 point for so over here
grab the JS file notice that some of
these are CSS that's button jas well
that's a jiff file so you just kind of
need to search through here for it there
it is fancy box jas and what did we
learn fancybox min da that's dot CSS jas
so that's the one we want is the min
minified JS file and we're going to
again replace that now we want the CSS
file of the same type there it is right
there there's a min ified copy we don't
need to edit it so we're just going to
grab the minified copy because it's
going to be a lot smaller which means
faster and paste it in you'll notice
that it adds a slash slash before rather
than an HTTP or HTTPS what this means is
that this code will work on either a
secure or an insecure web server so if
you have a secure website if you're
actually doing
transactions and things it will
automatically roll over to the secure
version of the CDL guide so you won't
have to worry about any kind of cross so
that you know the scripting errors or
warnings or anything for your users okay
so next up I've got fancy box buttons
and while this doesn't look too exciting
just yet I want you to stick with me
because this is going to get pretty
awesome when we actually run a test here
and you realize that how easy that this
is to make this change to our site that
should have been the CSS I grabbed the
JSO here's where the jas goes make sure
you put them in the right spot very
important there's the CSS for the
buttons and I'm purposefully working
with a rather complex script here with a
lot of jas includes because I want it to
have a fairly good example of the
difference between CDN and not non CDN
so that's why we're working with a file
such as fancy box but not not as
complicated as you may think so now we
want thumbs the CSS so fancy box thumbs
CSS will grab the minified copy again
there we go paste that in and now the
jas four thumbs thumbs j/s minified okay
it looks like we've only got one more JS
file and then we're done that's all
there is to it it's called media so
fancy box media jas and media min Jas
there we go so paste that in and hit
save and now I'm going to simply upload
that to my server so filezilla is going
to ask me for that there we go and now
if I go back to my website Here I am
again i'm at CDN and i'm going to
refresh and you see everything looks
just the same thing yeah but what i'm
going to do is I'm going to actually
copy that link and we're going to go
back to our performance report and we're
going to say compared to another URL in
this case because I want to see the
difference here we're going to paste in
our new URL this is the CDN version
here we go and that's gonna go so are
there any JavaScript libraries that you
use quite often or um I'm a jQuery guy i
love jquery so oh you gotta see this no
see oh my goodness oh my goodness no I
don't have any off the top of my head
you folks ready for this here is the
comparison report between those two
sites exactly the same content exactly
the same thing the one on the right hand
side is the one that we've just simply
copied and pasted some CDN links to the
jas files the javascript and CSS files
and that's the difference that we see
look at the difference as far as we've
got it's just like that way better way
better here's comparison so the green
here is the normal one and the blue is
the CDN the this is the score so it's
almost twice as good if you can it says
higher is better let's scroll down a
little ways and see page load time 0.5
seconds it looks like as opposed to 0.73
or whatever it was so when you look at
it visually that's basically cut off two
thirds of the page load time just by
making that little change minification
here's a good example of what
minification is done for us look at the
page size lower is usually better
minification has brought reduced our
page size to just just over two thirds
of the size that's all there is to it so
great tool GT metrics com to be able to
test your site now we can go through and
we can determine you know what else
needs to be done we can go home and we
can just run a scan on the CDN
conversion of my website and it will now
provide me with more information about
what I should do to be able to speed up
my website there it goes wow that's
really neat
there we go so now we're up to be and
that's with no other changes I haven't
done anything else is that to my dad a
copy and paste that's it copy and paste
ctrl-c ctrl-v folks it's easy I want to
draw your attention real quickly before
we wrap up just this one little segment
tonight on web design and speeding up
our website bald nerd calm I wonder
whose blog that could be if you head on
over there yeah good-looking chap
good-looking chap on that website you'll
see a blog entry called make your site
faster CloudFlare a CD njs vs google's
hosted libraries shocking results and it
goes into further details that i won't
get into tonight as well as some tests
and some user feedback people who have
actually read the blog and post a
feedback there's something you know
safety for replies there and you have an
opportunity to test cdnas on your own as
well even if you don't have a website
you can test it just to see how much
better it is yeah and it will make a big
difference so like I say if you've got a
wordpress blog get into the template
file make the changes if you're using a
if you've just got a website you can
just go in and easily just drop in those
changes and then you're not going to be
serving up the JavaScript and CSS files
locally instead you're going to be
serving them up from the cloud other
advantage just to really briefly touch
on it what what we're looking at here is
the live performance of a website how
the CDN jas impacts the the ability of
our site to serve up really really quick
JavaScript CSS the other advantages
let's say now i'm using jquery 1.9 point
0 so if i was using that on category 5
TV now you go to my website category 5
TV and you get jquery 1.9 point 0 from
cdnas so now your browser has a cached
copy of that jquery library right unlike
if it was hosted on my website then it
only works if you go to my website and
it's cached but because it's cash from
cdnas now if if somebody else has let's
say you have a website and you're also
using jquery's one
nine-point-oh library on CD njs you're
actually going to be serving up the
cached copy that I got from my website
no so because it's locally stored I'm
not I'm not getting it from your server
I'm not getting it from CD njs because
it's already cached it's going to be
instantaneous so because of cross dead
website caching now it even further
speeds up the the perceived speed of
websites as well so I encourage you to
check that out see dn.j esscom good
thanks everybody any questions in the
chat room just join us category five on
freenode this is category 5 technology
TV i'm your host Robbie Ferguson oh I'm
crystal walls I got take away by the
chatroom sorry folks not a bad thing no
no all right well let's have a look I
was coming up in the category 5 teeny
newsroom Oh first story the US
government has demanded designs for a 3d
printed gun taken offline the order to
remove the brew pet blueprint Oh
blueprints for the plastic gun comes
after they were downloaded more than a
hundred thousand times Wow the US State
Department wrote to the guns designer
defense distributed suggesting
publishing them online may breach arms
control regulations although the files
have been removed the company's def cad
site it is not going to stop people from
accessing the blueprints which have been
spreading in a viral where have you been
uploaded to the Pirate Bay and then on
reddit removal from the company site is
not going to affect the availability
that's kind of a scary thought yeah a
little bit I yeah just make your own
plastic gun and now we were looking at a
couple of weeks ago that they've got a
printer that you can buy for $75 3d
printer and they do you know does small
things that is a small thing so I think
the fear that I've heard has been raised
is that it's not so much that you can
make your own gun and then so there's
the you know the whole control issue of
being able to regulate but the fact that
you could have you could print your own
gun anywhere anytime within raw material
so that becomes scary because what is it
that you have what's that oh it's
nothing PVC yeah oh no big deal uh sure
yeah god that's kind of frightening
can't stop the Pirate Bay yeah even if
you want to try UK Sam scary stuff yeah
speaking of scary Oh insects tell me
what this is right I will i earn a study
showing how ants tunnel their way
through confines confined spaces could
aid the design of search and rescue
robots according to US scientists
excellent a team from the Georgia
Institute of Technology found fire ants
can use their antennae as extra limbs to
catch themselves when they fall and can
build a stable tunnels in loose sand
researchers used high-speed cameras
record and detail this behavior
professor Dan Goldman who was also
involved in the study explained that the
goal was to distill the principles by
which the ants and other animals
manipulate complex environments and
bring them to bear in the design of
search and rescue robotics he says lots
of the materials in the disaster sites
landslides rubble piles our loose
materials which are going to potentially
have to create structures out of you
might want to for example create a
temporary structure for people buried
down beneath make sense fire ants can
build stable tunnels in sand or soil
with almost no moisture to bind it
together so learning from them might
enable designers to build and program
robots that solve these same engineering
problems we'll see what the study brings
when a giant ant like robot comes to the
rescue let's hope they don't bite yikers
that's very scary and cool it's very
uncool that's what that's what we do
here folks alright a Senate committee
said apple sorry apple had used a
complex web of offshore entities to
avoid paying billions of dollars to you
income taxes but it said there was no
indication at the firm acted illegally
apple chief tim cook's it will go before
the panel on tuesday in prepared
testimony Apple said it did not use tax
gimmicks the Irish Republic home to
three Apple subsidiaries says it is not
to blame for the firm's low tax payments
the US Senate had said that Apple paid
little or nothing on billions of dollars
in profits placed in Irish subsidiaries
Apple has has a cash stockpile of 145
billion dollars but the Senate committee
said 102 billion of those that was held
offshore Apple stated that it has
substantial foreign cash because it
sells the majority of its products
outside of the US and these foreign earn
earnings were taxed in the jurist
jurisdictions where they were earned
Robert rich rich formerly President
Clinton's labor secretary says all the
carabao and this is appropriate given
that they are in the business of making
money is getting their taxes down but
that doesn't mean that that we should
buy into their sham argument Apple drew
criticism three weeks ago when it sold
17 billion dollars in bonds to raise
cash to fund payouts to shareholders
rather than repaid repo oh my goodness
repatriating a sum of its at cash
reserves which would be taxed in the
u.s. it has been estimated that move
saved the company a whopping nine point
two billion dollars in taxes yikes Wow
see what that leads to a up to 22
million login names that may have been
stolen during a hack attack on yahoo
japan a file of ID details for about one
tenth of its 200 million members was
jilted during the attack and said with
all did not include all the information
needed by attackers to impersonate users
despite this it said it would urge
people to change their passwords to
thwart attempts to take over yahoo
accounts well change your passwords for
it
likely powered by dilithium and enhanced
by weapons-grade nakida maqueda yeah
that's what I meant 15 million dollars
here manufactured by a Canadian company
uses quantum physics to boost its speed
and is to be installed at a NASA
facility in California it will be shared
by Google NASA and other scientists
providing access to a machine said to be
up to 3,600 times faster than
conventional computers and like standard
machines the d-wave to processor appears
to make use of an effect called quantum
tunneling this allows it to reach
solutions to certain types of
mathematical problems in crazy time
basically it can try all possible
solutions at the same time and select
the best Wow get this google wants to
use the facility to find out how quantum
computing it might advanced techniques
of machine learning and artificial
intelligence including voice recognition
Wow bring it on mr. data NASA on the
other hand will likely use the machine
for scheduling problems or to study
rocks or something really cool like that
yeah guys can get the full story at
category 5 to do category five dot TV /
newsroom the category five dot TV news
room is research by roy w nash and
heather bailey brown with contributions
by our community of yours if you have
any if you have any news stories that
you think of worthy of on-air mention
that you can email us at news room at
category 5 a dot TV for the category 5
tvnewser on crystals just a side note
Krista that was about full all of that
people in the chat room thanking you for
the Stargate references and the Star
Trek references yeah the doctor Pulaski
in unintentional reference good bye yeah
all right hey tonight's show is brought
to you in part by netflix get your free
one month trial at cat five dot TV /
netflix yeah that is unlimited all you
can view netflix and you can hear a big
deal Arrested Development yes alright
available on Netflix only if you can
watch it
in one month it's free there you go
folks cat5 TV / Netflix catch the brand
new season mm-hmm of Arrested
Development I'm excited also category 5
technology TV is brought to you tonight
in part by net talk now with unlimited
text messaging you can eliminate the
need for a wireless text plan from your
cell phone provider upgrade your nettalk
duo account with the net talk text plan
for the cost of a couple of cups of
coffee per month you'll receive
unlimited texting throughout the USA and
Canada check out cat five dot TV / phone
and you're going to start saving money
instantaneously good yeah like I say
Boston taneous money saving yeah all
right well I've got some great questions
here I feel like answering some great
questions do I ever oh thanks for
sending your questions folks if you've
got a question by the way you can email
Krista it's live at category five dot TV
while she's sitting at this desk so make
sure you do that if you've got a
question or join us in the chat room we
welcome your questions there as well all
right oh how do y'all I just watched the
retro gaming episode this afternoon talk
about memories huh my first games that I
would play for hours at home were
forbidden forest on the vic-20 the
vic-20 my first computer yes it just
don't really know I'm puter at all no I
didn't know what it was things are
awesome just kind of quickly before your
time yeah before you were born maybe
possible interesting note about those at
cassette decks they were actually 300
baud that right Yahoo stick modems the
next biggie for me was a lead on the c64
I can't begin to tell you how much time
I said playing this instead of watching
TV from interest me that is interesting
about the cassette decks we used to
before we had like microchips uh-huh we
had cassettes audio cassettes and you
could record our computer data to that
interesting to note that it's actually
300 baud modem I didn't know that
actually recording that data
transmission and then i guess like it
uses an audible format right so that's
why when you you know remember dial-up
it was okay doing your christian like
that I remember that that's what the
audio cassette sounded like really yeah
so it makes sense but it would be only
one directional at least at any given
time that's kind of cool thanks for the
little tidbit awesome to a blast for the
path yeah now I know how the technology
from 1976 works magic I and you to
figure out this year's technology no
that's not happening no now how did that
cassette they used to be able to store
like you know dead 20 kilobits and now
we've got the whatever it really is i
don't know i mean my camera's got a 32
gigabyte card in it right and you still
run on his face once in a while yeah
back up always back up oh no Stan force
a question from Trevor hey Trevor hi
Robbie in episode 2 66 you answer a
viewers question how to connect to a
server by editing the f step ofs tab
file i was trying to connect to mind and
this worked for me good however i
installed the new at debian 7 and that
doesn't work anymore imagine something
about not supporting as m at BFS hmm my
question as you have probably guessed is
how do i connect it to my na s now right
okay so they've got an ass device
network attached storage somewhere in
the house and they've got it connected
through their FS tab file okay which is
that when you reboot your computer it
mounts that drive as if it was another
hard drive in your computer so now i can
access it without having to go through
any hoops it's literally just a hard
drive in my computer linux is brilliant
for that but with SMB FS that's the old
samba file system I think her but for
the SMB protocol samba it's been
deprecated and replaced with cifs so in
order to change that you'll you'll be
pleasantly
only surprised how easy that is I'm just
going to bring up a terminal window here
all right so you'll see what happens I'm
actually in wn7 because this is point
linux 12.04 or 13 0 point 0 for pardon
me so I'm going to go sudo apt-get
install sm bffs just to demonstrate
what's going to happen here sorry sm
bffs has no installation candidate
because the following package replaces
it cifs so what you actually want to do
then is see the cifs dash utils that's
the one we want to install sudo apt-get
so do this on your computer don't worry
about it so don't apt-get install CIF a
stash utils and it's going to go through
and let it go yes let's do that when I
say don't worry about it i mean this is
literally a direct replacement for SMB
FS so you're not going to have any
trouble with getting that Nass working
on your computer it's going to be
brilliant it's going to work just like
you would expect but there's gonna be
some benefits because cifs now has
eliminated the SMB FS and I said no it
sounds like I'm throwing out a lot of
acronyms we'll call it the samba
filesystem okay so the old version had a
2 gigabyte file limit file size limit so
if you were in the middle of recording a
video and it hit the 2gig mark guess
what it's corrupt not a good situation
or you're trying to transfer great big
you know 4 gigabyte iso image over the
network and SMB FS you know chokes out
because it can't do that those two
gigabytes so then cifs fixes that also
cifs will this is the new version will
work better with things like network
dropouts so if your network loses its
connection you won't have to reboot your
computer or reinitiate the mount command
sudo mount a you won't need to do that
in order to in order to keep up and
running it's going to be more persistent
keep in mind there with my command that
I use to install it now of course I'm on
point Linux so I had typed sudo apt-get
install cifs
utils if you're on true debian 7 you'll
just type su and then hit enter that
will make you super user and then you
leave out the sudo command and enter it
like that so now that I have that
installed so I've got cifs installed now
I can go su or pseudo in my case and
depending on what you're using i'm using
pluma you might be using nano and these
are your text editors right so let's do
it through pluma et CFS tab so what I've
just said is become superuser open my
text editor and open this file FS tab so
that file I have a sample SMB FS share
ok and it's just it's probably
strikingly similar to the one that you
have just that your mount points and and
everything are set so where it says SMB
FS change that cifs save your file close
it and then you type sudo or in your
case if you're on true debian just s you
enter but in my case sudo mount dash a
the command is Mount dash a that is
going to go through all your FS tab and
mount everything that it finds there
without having to reboot your computer
it's also a great way for you to be able
to test if you're messing around with FS
tab and you're not too sure it's not
safe to reboot your computer it's not a
good way to test right because what if
you have broken something and then all
of a sudden your whole file system can't
mount because FS tab which tells it how
to mount is broken so typing mount a
will tell you that hey there's something
wrong or it will actually just work so
much safer way to do it thank you very
much for the question I hope that that
helps you out good alright eyes a
question
what to do from Robert new Robin says hi
Robbie and Krista this is a follow-up to
my question regarding getting steamed
working on point Lennox from episode 2
95 yes i am i am using point Linux
64-bit and I have tried that command you
suggested without success due to this
and my email client evolution not
working I have gone back to Zorin OS
although it is not perfect at least the
program i use it does work so for the
time being I will stick with Zorin OS
thank you for your help Linux is fun as
far as I'm concerned Linux is fun
because we get to play and work our way
through these little if you run into
those kinds of issues I'm curious as to
why you can't get steam installed and I
think maybe we'll dedicate a show to
simply installing steam on point Linux
just to show you how it's done but
certainly with evolution I'm just going
to bring up some synaptic package
manager and this is where the show gets
really real because if there's a problem
with the Installer then we're gonna
we're going to encounter it right now
i'm going to type in evolution and
synaptic package manager and you'll see
that I've got it here and I'm gonna see
where that's getting that from that is
from where does it show me it's in there
anyway
alright I'm going to market for
installation all right Robert to be
installed okay it's going to install
BOGO spam filters evolution a bunch of
other search tools and that all sounds
reasonable it's not uninstalling
anything and let's hit apply but before
I do that Robert I'll just show you what
repositories I have set up just in case
it's as simple as that so I've got
non-free checked off contrib did you
open the non-free I don't know but let's
see let's see if this actually runs
let's let's do it moment of truth for
four point linux here when you send in a
question when you say you know something
didn't work or you know here Robert is a
good example you've got steam and
evolution or not working for you on
point Linux I'd love to know more I'd
love for you to tell me okay well what's
the error what what is it that's
actually happening because maybe someone
else is experiencing that same thing I
know that you've you know you've
defaulted back to something that you're
comfortable with so no ass and that's
fine if it's working for you then that's
that would be my next choice as well but
maybe we could fix this maybe we could
make it make it go as I say to the kids
yeah let's make it go let's make it go
Robert there are a fair number of
packages there 45 for evolution here
comes it's at 27 here but yeah when you
send us an email let us know kind of
what more a little bit about what the
problem is and and that way we can we
can be of a little bit more help but I
do want to see if that works good any
questions coming in the chat room or
there's a second there's a little
jealous that question but he says a word
of advice for eric 04 Eric know if
you're us along here cuz Australia
doesn't want to seem like a tourist
don't say good day mate good day night I
never hear that st. apart from interest
ads for Australia alright folks then
when you come to Canada you don't need
to end it
with a you don't say where's the igloo
zur polar bear races yeah we don't have
those hey dude say out and about yeah
yeah that gets tiring to the boot you
can you boot Josh they talk like I don't
say that I don't get it any of people
still laugh at me yeah mom maybe it's
not cuz you're Canadian has nothing to
do with your Canadian ISM sebald nerd
maybe that's it calm how do you like
that little AB right there it's pretty
good this is coming Robert here we go
this is real time it's coming through
come on slow and steady yeah well not
that slow considering i know i didn't
have to track down the file or anything
or go through any hoops to be able to
get evolution looks like it's working to
me the moment of truth though Robert
will be when i click on it and actually
open evolution for the first time on my
own linux machine will it work it and if
it does then the question comes down
well what do you mean it didn't work
what's their messages that you got
what's the brum are you perhaps trying
to build from source from something else
oh it's done notice I'm just using
synaptic package manager so I'm not
going through any of those hoops all
right internet don't see it there yet
system tools no okay see I'm gonna hit
alt f2 and type in evolution come on the
suspense yeah oh there it is came up
there we go it's prompted me to create
my profile and go through just like a
normally would so it seems that
evolution works I mean I don't have a
profile to create to you know you've got
to go through the initial setup but it
looks like it's working right
yeah so clever it's probably gonna look
it up and see if exactly right asdfasdf
that's the your name and your a star now
buddy continue continue come on apply I
just wanted to get through that there we
go evolution is up which is really like
Microsoft Outlook but it's absolutely
free what what but you say that and
microsoft outlook is like a billion
dollars true just saying but it runs
there it is yeah cool from synaptic
package manager know having about
packages myself no having to go through
any hoops good stuff and installed it
works yeah yeah so let us know you be
happy to help well that's all the
questions I have is that him that's it
any comments hmm shot says where's the
igloos mate hey nice that's like a
where's the igloos mate that's really
mixing things up there John it's a feta
don't pull a bunch of people shots from
netherlands all right i want to show you
we've looked occasionally at some clever
phishing scams here on category 5
technology TV and the reason that i show
you and why Krista and I like to show
you phishing scams is not to show you
anything that is malicious but instead
to help you to learn how these things
trick you so that you can be safe and I
got this this one I'm going to actually
just I'm gonna because I want to keep
people's email addresses private I am
simply going to copy this too well I'll
see if I can hide your email address
here hopefully I can and if not okay
yeah that worked okay
I got this email is text only but fairly
convincing if you are a logmein user
dear client you're receiving this
notification because you have chosen
logmein software's the wrong control
solution of your business we have been
informed that a remote execution
vulnerability exists in the logmein
software which allows hackers to
compromise a successfully exploited
computer so immediately that sounds
scary and I want to figure out what's
going on and I'm apt to click on the
link which says this emergency patch can
be downloaded from the following and
it's HTTPS colon slash slash secure
logmein com and there's a download link
and it's going to take me I would assume
to logmein.com right what if we already
learned on the show though about those
links that come to us an email it's that
they're not always as they appear right
right so trust it exactly if I mouse
over that notice down at the bottom
there that's the actual link hydro
accent calm / login patch whatever okay
so obviously is not coming from https
colon slash slash secure logmein it's
coming from that weird website / logmein
patch likely a virus could be something
that gives ironically it could be
something that gives the attacker access
to your computer for example it could be
a keylogger so the next time you log in
to log me in there tracking you using
your username and password next time you
punch your debit card information into
your online banking they could be
tracking that and having it sent to
themselves so just another good example
of you know a clever phishing scam that
immediately grasps you and says okay you
are a user of this software which maybe
I'm not right but one in every ten is
like one in every ten person is going to
go oh yeah I am so you have to watch out
for this stuff because he can't think oh
well it's got to be legitimate because
they say I'm a user no because they're
going to send it to a million people and
if one percent of those people are
logmein users for the example
then they've got their end exactly watch
out yeah I've been our question here in
the chat room I know yeah even told my
agent says I have a compensable view on
SH HFS we're matching my to turbo turbo
terabyte drive it does not give you the
right drive the right drive size hence
when I backup big files of the drive at
always complaints I don't have enough
space I'm assuming that he means SSH FS
sshfs is that okay as oh yes I got ya it
was corrected down below SMS okay so
what's the problem it's not detecting
the correct space so sshfs is now
mounting a remote computers hard drive
via the ssh protocol which is really
cool and really an awesome thing to be
able to do but it's detecting the size
incorrectly two terabyte drive does not
give the right drive size when I backup
big files to the drive it always
complains that i haven't got enough
space are the files large in that could
they be surpassing the ability to save
over that protocol i don't know if there
are limitations or anything like that
but unfortunately i don't i don't really
know what that could be just like that
without knowing more about the system
and how it's working so you could
perhaps send us an email invincible
mutant with your FS tab entry I'm
assuming you're doing it through FS tab
if you're using the mount command you
could send that to us as well and I can
take a look and then just to know how
much hard drive space is actually there
and how much you're trying to put on it
because keep in mind that there is a
certain amount of overhead that even if
you think that you have you know two
terabytes it's not actually literally
two terabytes because there's a lot of
overhead and two terabytes is not
actually the capacity of that drive
because of the overhead and then because
of the way that the file system is
structured so it's quite a bit less than
that so if you think that you have
literally that and you're pushing if
you're pushing to the edge of ok it's
almost full but it says that I
have 400 Meg's and I'm only copying 350
why isn't it copying it's quite possible
that that overhead is is what could be
throwing you off but we need to know
more about your setup and maybe even
have a look if you want me to it sounds
like you're on linux so i could ssh in
if you want to open us up pump me an
email we'll talk about it so good so
what we can do I have time for my
question sure here's a question from
sprint cowboy in spring cowboy says how
do you make a group and how do you
assign the users to the same group
through the client side since there is
no GUI CLI through the season on the
command line interface he says he is
using linux mint and so are you doing
like a server environment you want to be
able to do this should be able just to
create the group with group add right
group add being the command user add to
add a user to that or to the system
maybe send me a bit more information
kind of a depends on what you're doing
if I get you right though it's just
group add do that and type dash dash
help for more information or use the man
pages let's see group add dash dash help
I thought so but I don't seem to have
that on here sorry
oh well I just I'm looking at the clock
and I don't know what to tell you if I
don't have time to look at my server I
just have to send a detailed email I
appreciate that anyway all right I'm
feverishly typing yeah cuz I'm gonna
check my search I have it there oh you
know why oh my goodness i'm guessing
because i didn't type sudo when I tried
it so light bulbs ya feel like those are
just a reflection later exactly what it
is it's not in my path when I'm not root
ah sudo group we feel like I'm
constraints Robbie what's right oh there
you have it folks
thanks for joining us tonight we're
completely out of time thank you so much
for your questions do email us live at
category 5 TV certainly if there if you
have questions that require a little bit
more explanation I love to receive my
email because then we can have a bit of
a back and forth before the show but in
the meantime join us in Chapter
throughout the week category five on
freenode Krista congratulations again
thanks and good to see you thanks for
being here tonight have a great night
everybody see you next week
we hope you enjoyed the show category 5
TV broadcast live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at 7pm easter if
you're watching this on the
Oh TV check on the local show times in
your area at category 5 TV and find out
you can watch live in turn
the community chatter category 5 is a
production of quantity digital solutions
and is licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada to see you next
time thanks for tuning in
I
