welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 573 and tonight's
a show we've got a great show planned
first of all we've been talking a little
bit about fake SD cards we're gonna put
them to the test we're gonna see tonight
if they're real and on top of that we're
going to take a quick look at Linux Mint
19
don't go anywhere we've got a great show
this is category 5 technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
flex and other HLS video players the
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash iai be welcome to category 5
technology TV it's so great to see you
again this week I'm Robby Ferguson I am
Sasha Rickman and this week we've got a
fantastic show planned for you as I
mentioned at the top of the show we're
gonna be looking at fake SD cards we're
gonna be looking at another Linux distro
that looks strikingly similar to the one
that we've already looked at how strange
is that
I know I know great to see you chat room
everybody joining us nice to see ya
thanks to all of our ops who are helping
keep things clean and we appreciate you
very very much
hey I saw that I've been promoted people
have just been getting kicked for saying
hello I mean this is we really did not
use appropriate emoticon yeah I call
them emoticons they're emojis I'm here
in IC q how come it's not going oh oh
that's weird
we should do that we should hook up our
chat room to make the ice I now want
that to be my dad Greg did you know that
my wife and I met on AIESEC you I did
know that that's how we met that makes
me happy yeah like the old days of
Internet chat IRC Internet Relay Chat I
met David a regular like out a bar at a
bar yeah I where's like the bar of geek
exactly yeah essentially that's exactly
what I CQ was what's funny is so it took
not to bring it back to me and all of
the time but Dave ordered a salad and an
iced tea at a wing bar that I worked at
and he was trying to impress he had my
full attention immediately I'm like a
salad this guy
anyway it's like that yeah
it's like 9 p.m. what's what are you
doing it's like the last ice day
incidentally ICQ actually still exists
can you believe it doesn't know I mean
as much as Tom and MySpace still exists
but it's there it still is in operation
the server's still how many people are
on it I don't know I mean I know that I
am to 1 4 8 4 6 3 2 your vows but it
could have been that's the priest is at
the front 2 1 4 8 4 6 3 - do you take
Becca Ferguson as your Becca Smith as
your lawfully wedded wife I CQ something
like that yeah nobody seriously does
still exist I've logged in and it's
there we here does that and people are
like what is this thing that you're
talking about they still make it
they still make it I love it huge back
in the day that was like the Facebook
right when Facebook was popular I I
remember like nobody had computers at
their house or at least my family didn't
and we went like I would have to go to
the computer lab at the school and there
were only like I think yeah yeah
designation I don't remember mine
there was like 12 computers in this
computer lab I feel like nobody had a
computer at home and I was like one of
four people ever in there like it was so
not a big deal that I always really
appreciate that you judge everyone based
on what you had at home at the time yeah
like nobody had computer nobody a
computer I didn't exactly also nobody
had a microwave right cable TV watch TV
on Fridays there you go thanks mom
I had three computers at the time
whatever back in those days right how
you got a wife see I exactly
I stayed single until last year that's
what happened it's because you didn't
have I seek you that's why this is this
is how things come about so you had to
wait for the guy who was
during salad and iced tea at the bar
which works it worked Ali I worked out
here you are a year later
congratulations on the anniversary gave
congratulations well done sir
okay we're gonna get into it first of
all we have had an incredible week here
category 5 TV it's been so encouraging
thank you community for coming together
and supporting category 5 TV we've had
various needs such as our need to be
able to record category 5 technology TV
right this is kind of a good thing when
you run an internet-based TV show to
actually actually write so that you can
then upload it to the interwebs and to
our various distribution chain unlike
the short list of things you need to be
able to do it kinda is at the top of the
list yeah number one right so one of our
viewers contributed an Atomos ninja
flame which is a 4k recording device and
i see it actually flashing right now so
this is being recorded on the Atomos
ninja flame also we had Michael who
donated a LED light bulb which is
blinding me right now it's fantastic
yeah I don't know if you can tell
because you probably want sunglasses on
before you look into the Sun the one in
the middle
yeah the LED and it is way brighter than
the rest of the rest of them if you
squint your eyes actually ended up being
brighter which I would consider is
better in an environment it's brighter
and and you know it's a really nice
white light turned out that it's
brighter than the other bulbs so in
Candela D versus fluorescent I'm quite
impressed that the LED is doing a better
job
music well just like an on-the-fly
review of it it actually is amazing
there you go there's our on-the-fly
review and it is brighter than the
fluorescence and I looked at it and now
I cannot see the teleprompter so I don't
know what to say I have no idea where I
am or what I'm doing but I see how it's
like I I have gotten into your brain
feels like to be Sasha the best thing I
do is just I just nodded smile and that
I know I wait for a pause
oh yeah the other thing that we're
working on is
getting a replacement unit for the XLR
for your microphone right so that we can
welcome Jeff back and we hope to do that
within the next six months right I mean
it would be nice to have the guy here he
misses us and we actually he's here it's
just that we locked him outside right so
it would be really nice to be able to
let him in to the building and plug in a
microphone and that would be really good
he's gonna have so much to say but it's
having on he'll be like I've been
freezing I've been here for two weeks
it's like it's like that time I got a
root canal and for one whole hour I
couldn't say a thing and everything I
thought was hilarious and I'm like oh
yes yeah like oh playback yeah all the
best things are when you can't talk we
tonight are going to be looking at fake
SD cards I talked about it a couple of
weeks back and tonight one might be on
its way to us whoa stick around
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts welcome back this is
category five technology TV now a few
weeks ago we talked about fake SD cards
being available on Amazon and and what I
want to it kind of answer the question
because the questions have been coming
in in full force mm-hmm people on
YouTube people sending us email and
commenting on our website saying um
would Amazon really sell a fake SD card
so what I want to know is could a fake
SD card actually be real
oh and by real I mean could it actually
be fake yes could it be so let's say I'm
just gonna switch over to my computer
here and let's jump over to Amazon CA my
shopping portal and let's do a quick
search here I'm gonna do a 256 gigabyte
micro SD and I can see
oh yeah the cost is well over a hundred
bucks for these kind of things so
remember we're gonna be using this in
our video camera so we want to shoot a
wedding with this now this one's cheaper
but it's only 128 gigs again 256 gigs
Samsung it's a bit heavy so let's sort
by price because that's what I do on
Amazon right and whoa Sasha can you
believe it 256 gigs for like under 10
bucks you ate it to steal it sounds like
it this looks totally legit 256
gigabytes its class 10 obviously it
looks the best chip and flash mob
Jules and it's only ten bucks
Oh okay I've got to take a look at the
reviews because I got to be smart about
this now there's only two and a half out
of five stars this guy I mean it seems
like oh yeah they definitely are happy
with this purchase okay yeah uh-huh
oh there's a lot of one-star reviews now
when I see these one-star reviews and I
start kind of skimming these I start to
think sash of it you know what they
probably they just they got a lemon yeah
they got a lemon I mean there's a
there's 400 reviews Plus here so I'm
gonna add this to cart because you know
what it's worth the risk of $10
I can definitely spend $10 I mean look
at the price of a normal 256 gig SD card
so this is definitely a steal I regret
that those folks got a lemon but I think
you know I'm gonna play I'm gonna take
the risk yeah and let's that let's give
it a go place the order
free shipping yeah prime all right who
could that be oh okay um just one second
here sorry to do this to you folks huh
Amazon's gotten really fast these days
all right well let's bring this over
here to our unboxing table and let's get
a look here this got to be a fake at $10
but let's get into the package bit would
wait a minute this actually came from
Amazon this is the Mississauga Amazon
warehouse so this didn't come from some
obscure Chinese factory or something
like that no this came directly from
amazon.ca explaining why it was so fast
exactly all right oh yeah look at that
oh it is a micro SDHC memory card new
made in China it's a memory card as we
learned on the front plug-and-play for
digital cameras cellular phones oh it
even does PDA is just in case you still
use a PDA like high-speed
high-performance this sounds incredible
for only 10 bucks I'll get into it all
right let's take a look here this can't
be real I mean they've got a sticker
over it it's got to be a fake no that
looks completely legit to me all right
it's
see if I can just get in there okay yeah
yeah there we go all right let's get a
look at this so there's a micro SD card
right there is it a five gig at that
price it's got to be like 16 gigs now no
that's actually a 256 gigabyte micro SD
card for the win I'm shocked this is
legit Sasha so let's throw this in the
camera all right all right so we've got
it in our camera we're ready to start
shooting video at my cousin's wedding
right right
it formats the camera reads it the
camera shows that it's 256 gigs for yep
that's a win it's good
it's obviously legit 256 gig card for
only $9.99 right steel score and do you
see any doubt in my eyes any doubt in my
eyes whatsoever I have Linux installed
on my computer folks Linux gives me
power beyond measure and I can figure
things out that maybe you can't do on a
normal system in quite as little time
tonight we're gonna look at this micro
SD card that Amazon shipped me let's get
a little bit of a close-up look here a
256 gigabyte micro SD card we're gonna
take a look at that in Linux and find
out is this for real
okay let's back up a few weeks right we
have to talk about the folks who
actually did this and bought this off of
Amazon plugged it into their DSLR and it
was working fantastically well right so
they shot a wedding with it
they did and they shot the whole thing
and then they got at home and they went
to edit the video and everything on the
card was corrupt why would that happen
well because a fake micro SD card will
in fact only be say let's say it's a 16
gig micro SD that they hacked the
firmware of to trick your camera into
thinking it's 256 gigs and then they
reprinted the silk-screening to make it
look like physically
it's 256 gigs so yeah but when you plug
it in because they've hacked the the
firmware the the bootloader the boot
sectors in whatever else of the drive
your camera your device your phone
thinks it's 256 gigs so then it hits
that 16 gig cap because it's
legitimately not 256 gigs it's only say
16 gigs and when it hits that cap it
still keeps recording and starts and it
thinks that it's 256 gigs so there's
lots of space
but where's it putting that data the
chips that are within this card if this
is indeed fake but in the instance of a
fake card is not going to be able to
write the data it's gonna look like it's
there because it's recording the file
names and everything else but it may not
be there so how do we actually tell well
we have unboxed this now tonight we've
got a SD card micro SD card reader I'm
just gonna simply plug that in I'll set
this aside because there's a USB 3
memory card reader and let's bring up
our Linux laptop here and I'm just going
to jump into the terminal now I'm gonna
say just straight off oh and let's let's
see what I can do here about the display
because you're not seeing what I see
well let's quickly can I bring this can
I just drag that over to it yeah that
works alright folks let's see if I can
just kind of no it won't let me zoom in
so I hope that you're using a high
enough resolution that you can see that
very very well but I'm gonna walk you
through there we go I'm gonna walk you
through everything that I'm gonna do
here so first of all I'm doing this on
Linux you can figure this out on
Microsoft Windows stick around if you're
on Microsoft Windows I'm going to tell
you how you can do this on Windows if
you do not have Linux but Linux is free
you can install it and then you can do
this and it's much much quicker now I
don't have a fear Sasha that Mac users
ever have this problem because a Mac
user is gonna go to Amazon and they're
gonna see the cheap card and they're
gonna skip right over them to the really
expensive cards right and then they're
gonna multiply the price of the really
expensive card by three and that's the
one that they're gonna buy great they're
buying the $300 256 gigs right
they're just expecting that in two years
they'll have to buy another one anyway
exactly so Mac users this is not for you
I understand that you've never tried to
find something at this price point but
for you Windows and Linux users who are
looking for a deal you might fall for
this if you go onto Amazon so what we're
gonna do on our Linux machine first of
all I'm going to become super user so
sudo su on my this is Linux Mint aka
this one's based on Ubuntu so sudo su
for any of those or just su su on a
Debian system and I'm going to install a
program called f3 so apt install f3 it's
gonna quickly grab that from the
repositories there we go and let's run
the program so we're gonna run f3 probe
and here's where I actually well I can't
really proceed because I haven't plugged
in my microSD card yet so let's do that
first first of all I need to know what
drive this is going to be I'm going to
ctrl C so I'm going to go LS space now
remember I am super user so I can do
this dev slash
SD star enter and IC SD a SD a 1 SD a 2
so the built-in computer hard drive on
my computer is SDA ok so now what I'm
gonna do is I'm gonna connect my USB
reader right ok and as soon as I do that
now Linux is going to probably detect a
couple of new drives quite possibly
let's see maybe not but what I can do is
now I can run that same command LS / o
it is detecting something that seemed to
kind of jump around there a little bit o
on my other screen it is it's brought up
a drive here which I can close and over
here I'm gonna run that same command
what I'm telling it to do is show me all
the devices that start with SD cuz that
asterisk SD being like a hard drive if
you don't know which my USB Drive is
being detected as and you can see that
now I've got SD b and SD b1 so let's now
remember I installed f3 but before I do
that I'm going to go F disk
- L /dev / s DB now that we've
determined that that is my drive and lo
and behold its 245 gigabytes
yes yeah there you go there you go
that's what your computer shows you
that's what windows will show you that's
what Mac will show you that's what your
camera will show you that's what your
phone will show you so how do we
determine whether or not this is legit
is it really a 256 gig or what is being
reported as 245 gig SD card so that's
where f3 comes in so let's do f3 probe
now that we know that it is dev slash SD
b i'm gonna go - - this is a brand new
card so we're gonna do a destructive
test Oh which we want to do anyways
because it's the most accurate for this
really really quick test but it will
destroy some data if you have data on
there so don't do this on a car that
you've already used a destructive test
just like it is gonna overwrite sectors
of the drive and that's going to read
those sectors back to say hey did that
actually work or did it lie to me and
say that it would work but it didn't
okay right are we gonna get corrupted
data so the reason we're using f3 as
opposed to some of the tools that are
out there is because f3 probe can do
this extremely quickly so where it may
take 6 hours on a 256 gigabyte Drive
using traditional means and on Microsoft
Windows here on Linux with f3 probe it's
gonna take under 15 minutes perfect ok
and sometimes just seconds just seconds
so - - destructive - - the type of tests
we're gonna do time ops slash dev slash
and what was the drive Sascha I'm just
quizzing you SDP SDB sorry member that's
important because if I accidentally
typed SDA that's my hard drive in my
laptop right I'm gonna overwrite sectors
on my actual hard drive don't make that
mistake be very very careful of this
command I'm going to hit enter and it
says warning probing normally takes a
few seconds
- 15 minutes but it can take longer
please be patient
so what this is doing right now Sasha
yes it is
writing random points on this drive so
it knows that it's supposed to be 256
gigabytes right and so it'll write
something at 10 gigabytes and it'll
write something at 4 gigabytes and it'll
write something at 20 gigabytes and
something at 100 gigabytes and something
up 500 gigabytes and it'll read it back
and it'll say does this match what I
wrote and if at any point it sees that
it's not actually matching then it's
gonna figure out ok well where does this
Drive actually end off and we're gonna
find out how big the drive actually is
but what makes me nervous smashes is
there a chance that the $10.00 SD card
could be legit I feel like there's like
a 0-0 percent chance there's pretty much
a zero point zero percent chance oh it's
done oh ok what do we got
ladies and gentlemen bad news see that
if I got bad news this device dev slash
SDB is a counterfeit of type limbo ha
the actual device geometry and it only
took a couple of moments here the usable
size of this drive ladies and gentlemen
is 15 point six six gigabytes the
announced size is 245 gigabytes
Hauser's ladies and gentlemen we have
purchased a fake micro SD card from
Amazon legitimately yeah Amazon dot CA
shipped directly from their warehouse
right yes they're going to be hearing
from me yes I'm going to be returning
the card yes I am furious because I shot
that whole wedding and I'm going to sue
now here's the let's back up again I
love doing this think about the scenario
right at the beginning of this Sasha we
decided we determined it's worth the
risk of 10 dollars because my 10 dollars
that's like five cups of coffee right
right it's worth that risk I might save
ninety five dollars or a hundred
right what is the value that you would
put on say your wedding video it's I'm
raising that example because this is
like it's like like worth what would I
spend to get it back if I didn't have it
a lot of money how would I feel and this
is rhetorical for everyone and and using
wedding video maybe that's not the
example that is applicable to you but
something that is priceless to you
photos on your phone contacts files that
are important to you what if you hit
that 16 gig limit of the physical disk
mm-hmm and kept saving to it and lost
everything else that you saved what was
that worth the $10 was that worth saving
not a potentially saving $90 and it is a
rhetorical question the answer is
absolutely not now this is a fake micro
SD card and this tool f3 and in this
particular instance of this example f3
probe the application that comes with it
is showing us on Linux that the drive is
actually only a 16 gig drive now whoever
hacked it whoever sold this illegal fake
drive on Amazon or to Amazon and put it
in their warehouse hacked the firmware
hacked the chip to make it think and
make a trickier device into thinking
that it is 256 gigs or reporting as 245
gigs but in fact it is not now the drive
may be usable and so f3 fix is included
and has given you the command to be able
to use the full 16 gig space so I could
convert this into a 16 gig card and
start using it but that's not what I
bought and if I had recorded to it I
would have lost practically everything
that I had written to it because how
quickly do you fill 16 gigs with a 4k
camera or your DSLR it just boom
lickety-split just like that
so stay away from those fake drives if
you see those red flags what do we look
for well too good to be true prices
absolutely bad reviews bad reviews are
definitely something now they're not
always the case because bad reviews
maybe you do have to I kind of joke
about it and alluded to it you sometimes
have to say oh that person obviously
doesn't know what they're talking about
a fresh new company very brand a company
that just started up right and really
you know you you can't really find out
about them yes definitely definitely I
can't think of anything else those are
really good red flags yeah bad reviews
and perpetually bad reviews right and
look at look at the good reviews - okay
can I say that can I suggest that one
way to tell if it's a fake product is to
look at the good reviews because if the
good reviews are so glowing and so poor
in their English a lot of times I hate
to say it but a lot of times that they
are possibly hired by the company who's
doing this fraud or perhaps the same
people and they're adding this to that
to offset all those bad reviews and it
does happen this is legit right well you
can also be frozen out of being able to
write a review which is an
after-the-fact problem right so you're
like oh this is this is a bad device and
then you go to write a review and you're
frozen out of it you can't it's quite
sure I can post this video yes and and I
hope that I save you from accidentally
believing that a ten dollar 256 gigabyte
microSD card exists now if you're on
Microsoft Windows we've got a link for
you a cat5 dot TV / USB test and that
will take you to this blog entry at
Raymond dot CC that has been sent to us
courtesy of David fear a viewer who was
watching and commented on our YouTube
channel so thank you David for sending
this in now this blog entry number one
shows us to use H to test W which is a
very well-respected tool to do this very
test on Microsoft Windows so if you're
not on Linux you can use this tool and
it's going to take a lot longer than a
Linux tool that we showed you tonight
but it's going to do the job for you and
show you whether that USB flash drive or
in this case a micro SD
card is in fact legit or if it's fake
stick around we've got more show for you
coming up whether you shop on thinkgeek
gearbest B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon
or even if you want a free trial of
audible you'll find the best deals and
support the shows we produce by simply
visiting the shopping sites you already
frequent by using the links on our
website visit category 5 TV slash
partners for the full and ever-growing
list and help us create more free
content like this show thank you for
shopping with our partners and thank you
for watching welcome back this is
category 5 technology TV now Sasha over
the past couple of weeks I've been
looking for a Linux distribution to help
me migrate my laptop over to Linux right
I need to be able to do video editing
though that's like crucial to me with my
Linux yeah but you also still want to do
yes and so now we looked at LMDE
yes and I love it I'm actually quite
impressed with it it's Debian based but
I couldn't quite get my video editor to
work on it so then I thought okay maybe
I could try Linux Mint the actual Linux
Mint 19 because it's based on a boon -
and I know that it probably has more
current proprietary drivers for Nvidia
and those kinds of things are a lot
easier to take care of on Linux Mint
than they are on LMDE 3 freights
for examples so I was able to get Linux
Mint installed and I got DaVinci Resolve
installed but I was horribly
disappointed in not Linux Mint not Linux
but in DaVinci Resolve that it says
your hardware is not good enough for
this stuff Robbie oh and I said who
cares about my screen resolution I get
in there and I start doing video editing
and it says you're at a memory your your
GPU can't keep up and all this kind of
stuff and then I start thinking I do
video editing on here on Microsoft
Windows 10 all the time
mm-hmm CyberLink PowerDirector 14 is
what I'm currently using I'll probably
upgrade because we do sometimes do some
360 stuff but it works flawlessly mm-hmm
so why can't DaVinci Resolve handle
editing on my same computer and so it's
not a Linux vs. Windows thing it's a
CyberLink PowerDirector versus DaVinci
Resolve thing and I really love the idea
of DaVinci Resolve but it seems to me
like I'd have to upgrade and upgrade an
upgrade buy a better laptop it's getting
aged I have man we've had this one for
many years here at the studio but it
still does the job on Windows for
editing with CyberLink mm-hmm
so do you take that approach of
investing money into the thing and
buying new one and now why don't I just
buy a Mac if I have that mine right but
and that's the second time in this show
that we've dissed Mac and that's what
this shows about folks so if you're here
for the first time I don't want to take
that approach because it already works I
don't like to replace things that I
already have right I'm not that mindset
right you want to be able to use what
you have but for the purpose that suits
you best right right and I dream of
being able to go 100% exclusive Linux
doing all my video editing and doing
everything else everything else I only
do on Linux web surf and email
everything else I do documents
everything is Linux programming
especially I hate doing it on Windows it
sucks but on Linux is fantastic so I
have to take the approach and say okay
what what else can I do what can I do
here and then I thought Sasha what if
what if I took away that dependency and
said okay it's telling me my laptop
ain't good enough yeah I know it's good
enough
right it ain't good enough to run
DaVinci Resolve 15 but I know it's good
enough for CyberLink PowerDirector 14
right I'm happy with it
it's fantastic so what if I do a boot it
what if I take the approach of saying
let's just find a really nice Linux for
me to use in my day to day and when I
have to do video editing I can reboot
into Windows 10 right do my video
editing in CyberLink PowerDirector which
performs great and then when I'm done I
switch back into Linux yeah now I've
done away with that need to depend on
hey I have to be able to do DaVinci
Resolve I got it up and going folks so
if you've got a dreamy computer check
out my blog bald nerd comm do a quick
search for DaVinci Resolve I actually
outlined kind of what I went through in
order to get it up and going
including the packages that you need to
install cuz it's a bit onerous so but
it's working as you can see there it's
just complaining that I changed my
resolution because as you know I did
that for you so but I'm really impressed
with Linux Mint okay so let's take away
the need to go with DaVinci Resolve and
say all right let's see I was working on
new every day therefore the week's show
and and that's when I ran out of video
memory and everything Linux Mint has is
really quite sleek and this looks
exactly like hell MDE I got to admit it
does look strikingly similar cinnamon is
the menu system it works really well I
love certain aspects of both lmde and
Linux Mint for one I really like the the
navigation I really like the way that it
operates it's just it flows with my kind
of mindset of how the operating system
in the file system should flow like when
I plug in a device it gives me access to
it the way I think I should have access
to it and it just seems to work really
really well
I don't really need to go through the
menu and navigation it's all very much
the same as what you've already seen the
difference here is that I have things
like driver manager and when I bring
that up this is what really makes Linux
Mint stand out against lmde
is because it's based on Ubuntu
it has features like this and they come
from a boom - so this is like hey if you
if you love boom two's capabilities but
not boo boom two's interface well Linux
Mint really kind of strikes it for you
so you can see like my Nvidia card was
detected and it just installed and
worked I detected my Broadcom chip and
installed and worked so makes things a
lot easier so there are differences but
they're subtle and they're really user
friendly experience kind of things so I
mentioned last week if you're new to
Linux go with Linux Mint as opposed to
LMDE because I kind of feel like LMDE is
a bit more power user ish because of the
fact that it's not based on your boot -
it's based on Debian you do need to get
your hands kind of a little more dirty
with that right so I'm kind of thinking
hey I really like this whole thing that
the Linux Mint is doing
check out more at Linux Mint com see
what you think and if you've got a
distro that you really love let me know
and and let me know kind of what you
think of the idea that maybe we should
remove that DaVinci Resolve necessity
from that from that decision and instead
just find a distro that I really like
right
I mean who knows you might find a
district really like that does run da
Vinci know it says - no because it's not
no it's not oh right it's actually
DaVinci Resolve that's saying it don't
worry we've got to head over to the
newsroom and if you're ready for it I am
I am indeed zip right over all right
here in the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Bitcoin and other digital currencies
continue to tumble and value admin
concerns that Wall Street institutions
are shunning cryptocurrencies -
Madeleine planets wins the british-built
Aeolus satellite has begun firing its
lasers down on earth
a self-driving bus has begun shuttle
service in Calgary and we may not have
colonies on Mars and faster than light
travel yet but if you have a Vizio TV
you'll get a taste of a bizarre feature
wherein gadgets turn against their
makers after first portraying their
owners also a pop-up informing you that
your TV has been spying on you and will
prompt you to sue its own manufacturer
these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Westen Gemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what aren't you you're terrible
actor what does where acting comes into
play you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap v dot TV slash
dream host to sign up for unlimited web
hosting for your website with unlimited
email accounts MySQL databases the
latest version of PHP WordPress and more
and even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host this is the category five dot
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories with a slight linux bias
I'm Sasha Rickman and here the top
stories were following this week Bitcoin
and other digital currencies have
continued to tumble in value of mid
are shunning cryptocurrencies it follows
media reports originally in Business
Insider that American investment bank
Goldman Sachs was shelving plans to set
up a crypto currency trading desk
goldman sachs CFO Martin Chavez has
since made publicly clear that the
reports were false he says I never
thought I would hear myself use this
term but I really have to describe that
news as fake news the truth of the
matter is Wall Street is loving cryptos
they're even opening an exchange and
Nasdaq is investing in a tool to predict
crypto price movements bitcoin has lost
two-thirds of its value in the past nine
months it was trading above nineteen
thousand dollars in December and if it
continues to fall it could threaten this
year's low of five thousand eight
hundred and eighty seven dollars this
can affect the value of other coins too
especially all coins whose value are
based on the value of Bitcoin the future
regulatory framework for digital coins
remains unclear in the United States the
US Securities and the Exchange
Commission has warned that some coins
might be regarded as securities which
means dealing in them may become subject
to federal law according to coin market
cap the overall market capitalization of
virtual currencies has lost
three-quarters of its value since
January Peak slumping from eight hundred
billion dollars to around two hundred
billion dollars now blockchain
technology enables us to use and
transact currency quickly safely
interestingly it enables anyone to set
up automated self-employed business
where market where mark contracts will
enable vendors to get paid directly by a
customer with no middleman you are
already able to create your own currency
to pay for those services so what's
going wrong here's our crypto
correspondent Robert Koenig to share his
thoughts on the state of Bitcoin so
what's the reason for this huge drop in
in market valuation
from my point of view the main one is
lack of education I've seen so many
people in this market that have got no
clue what they're talking about a lot of
youtubers and Twitter also have got an
opinion then are shedding a coin
chilling a coin and really don't know
what they're talking about many people
don't even understand what the
blockchain is so that's the main reason
that a lot of information is in the
market that is false
and therefore one has to be very careful
and listening exactly where the news is
coming from even big magazines and news
outlets bringing out news that are not
correct the other hand is there's also
no real use case or mass adoption in
this crypto market it's an early stage
if you look at Bitcoin it's still at
version zero point
so it's not version one we're still some
time away of many people being able to
use or even invest into into cryptos if
we look at who is participating in the
market it's really probably less than 1%
globally people that can participate or
are currently participating in this
market there is some manipulation
happening because it's not regulated its
global there is manipulation happening
and so that's why there's a reason the
price to drop or go up the market is
really bullish not from the financial
point of view but from the outlook of
where cryptocurrencies are going to be
in a few years time it's going to be
huge market that's probably got even
guaranteed that that's big every big
company every financial institution is
looking into this year participating and
doing something the just from the
logical point of view it is going to be
huge so there is nothing to fear from
the basics basis of cryptocurrencies
coming into that I received two
questions that I'd like to answer which
go in sync with what I just said I mean
Sean asked for example how can I
participate now Sean there
aspects of this one is investing yeah so
and this is not financial advice this is
just my my point of view on how I see
the situation if you want to invest in
this market probably it's a good time to
do it now the price went down from
20,000 to now let's say around 6,000 it
can go a little bit further down there
are some people saying it can go down to
5,000 but we're just not a huge drop
from the risk-taking point of view you
can't even wait a few months a few weeks
before you invest but it's a good point
you know to start investing into Kryptos
the other one how I can participate is
from the programming now that is really
attractive
there is a huge downside or there's a
huge market opportunity for programmers
and I would definitely if you know if
you're if you're if you like to program
I would definitely go into this market
and start learning how to program in a
OS e theorem and so on and the other one
is for those people that want to build
something first recommendation is learn
about blockchain yeah if you don't know
what blockchain is don't touch it and
then start dreaming about applications
that would be new so that there's no
case out there and where you can really
change something in your environment or
in the bigger picture and start building
something it's it's not that difficult
and the next question is Michael he
asked I heard that the issues of concern
around cryptocurrencies including
potential money laundering and and
market manipulation well Michael yes
market manipulation yes that's there and
all the big like SEC and so on they're
looking into this year and they will
find those that are manipulating the
market and they will be penalized I'm
pretty sure about that the potential of
money laundering that is not there that
is just a myth it's much easier to
launder money with US dollars or
Canadian dollars or yours then
with cryptocurrencies and why because
the cryptocurrency stays on a blockchain
and therefore you can always go back to
any transaction that was made and really
find out what happened
yeah with US dollars you can't once
they're spent they're gone blockchain
it's there you can still find in Bitcoin
for example the first transaction that
was made by Satoshi Nakamoto back in
2009 that is there you can see it and so
I cannot recommend doing any money
laundering or any criminal activities on
a blockchain because it will be visible
and also the government knows who's
participating where because companies
like coinbase have to report and you can
see what public key is linked to what
name and so you can track the person the
the activities of a person in regards to
cryptocurrencies now there is of course
those privacy coins like Manero and G
cash and so on that we're not allow you
to do that at the moment so I would not
bank on that so I don't see that as a
potential money laundering thing that
that's just something that is out there
in the market but it's not really an
issue and will never be an issue because
cash will always be a better tool to do
these things right that's it that's it
for me here and back to the studio thank
you thank you Robert the british-built
ælis satellite has begun firing its
lasers down on earth to map the planets
winds it's a big moment for the European
Space Agency mission as the technology
took 16 years to develop launched three
weeks ago from the Kouros space
spaceport in French Guiana a Ola Aeolus
is now undergoing three months of
testing once this is complete scientists
will start assessing the satellites wind
data for inclusion in weather models its
maps are expected to bring significant
improvement in the
see of medium range forecasts those that
look a few days ahead mark dr. mark
Drinkwater who heads the agency's earth
and missions science division says it's
a euphoric feeling in a proud moment to
reach this milestone after overcoming
the first technical challenge to build
launch and operate this complex wind
lidar now we're arguably some of what
are arguably some of Europe's most
patients and and scientists and weather
service services eerily wait to take
over the baton at the moment when the
data comes from multiple but patchy
sources such as weather blends Aeolus
will be the first system to gather wind
information all across the globe from
the ground up to nearly 30 kilometers in
altitude it will do this by firing a
powerful ultraviolet laser down into the
atmosphere with the aid of a telescope
and a sensitive detector it will then
look for the way the pulsed beams light
is scattered back off the air molecules
water droplets and dust particles this
should reveal basic details about air
movement and numerical weather models
will be adjusted to take account of it
experts confirm that the lasers first
days of working revealed clear features
of the wind I love that they're able to
use lidar as a technology to do this
like the same thing that makes
autonomous vehicles possible right and I
mean we I think my basic knowledge of
lidar comes from an interview we did yes
and we were looking at the the city of
the monkey god great and with that they
used lidar from an airplane to be able
to see through the jungle cover into the
into like ruins right so now they're
using lidar from the sky down and
looking at wind patterns which a a
medium-range weather forecast with
accuracy would be amazing and now
there'd be no more jokes left on earth
because pretty much every joke is about
how bad weather forecasts are it's true
but it is annoying yeah so if they can
improve they can improve
I'm game they'll be happy so I thought
to myself like is lidar like ultraviolet
laser rays that are streaming down to
earth is that gonna grow bot brains is
that gonna be a problem
so I'd like cancer-causing elements well
I was thinking I didn't know either so I
was thinking more like along the lines
if what's it gonna do to people
let not people what's it gonna do to
life that isn't people right like please
pretty fast
yeah lidar is a very passive technology
yeah it's completely safe I was I was
looking it up just to see it like
ultraviolet light already exists right
so if you concentrate it a little bit
what's gonna happen well all plants and
animals that are hanging out in the
atmosphere I already have their own
natural sunscreen I guess UV sunscreen
solace in the atmosphere do we need to
wear like SPF what we need nothing
nothing we're good we're just we've got
we just take advantage of the fact that
we'll know when it's gonna be sunny out
we know to put on SPF 60 and I mean in
this day and age like the weather
patterns have been kind of crazy and
unpredictable right now there's some
storms going on and and I just think if
we can get just really as specific as
possible we can really it's it's a
safety thing really more than anything
for it can be absolutely there are times
when it is a safety thing and we we
certainly feel that right now
exactly so very cool an autonomous
vehicle billed as the future of
Transportation is spending the month
ferrying passengers between two
neighboring tourist attractions in
Calgary Alberta
the autonomous electric bus is named
Ella and it stands for electronic
automation and Saturday marked its
maiden voyage
between the Calgary Zoo and the Telus
sparks Science Center next door it can
carry up to 12 people at a time and it's
speed has been limited to 12 kilometres
an hour for its short journeys between
the zoo and the Science Centre Ella runs
on two key technologies Josephine's hang
of Telus Park describes one as a super
fancy version of a GPS and the other is
wide are short for light detects a
detection and ranging which is used to
detect pedestrians
or other obstacles in the vehicles path
Telus Park is one of the two companies
sponsoring Ellis time in Calgary along
with energy giant ATCO the federal
government has also put a $50,000 grant
toward the project the vehicle is being
billed as the first electronic
autonomous shuttle in Canada able to be
used as by the public manufacturer easy
mile at members of the public board a
similar vehicle in Montreal last year
but that vehicle stayed on the Olympic
Park property Allis presence in Calgary
isn't only about showing off the
emerging technology of autonomous
vehicles researchers are watching to see
how Ella performs on the gravel roadways
linking the zoo in the Science Center
and the University of Calgary students
are studying the passengers reaction to
the vehicle while there might not be
anybody controlling Ella directly as it
makes its trips back and forth there is
a backup system in case emergency human
intervention is needed saying said there
is an operator on the bus to make sure
everything is running smoothly the
vehicle will spend September in Calgary
before moving to Edmonton next month
so the technology is actually happening
yeah it's there it's real it's it's I
just again about lidar it's it's it's
literally everywhere now I just I love
the fistic ated type but let me lidar
kind of alludes to radar right right you
know send a signal receive it back send
a signal receive it back but it's so
detailed right it's so precise like if
you think about dots per inch and in
terms of like imagery right it's so
clear it's so it can make out things
like a human form a pedestrian and
things like that so I was thinking now
I'm a little VR obsessed as we might
realize he's a human intervention why is
a VR headset now all of a sudden she's
obsessed obsessed
so the VR aspect of this that I was
thinking is we probably don't actually
need a human operator to be honest with
you you think we need a VR headset we
need somebody at a at a central hub that
can control many and just slip with VR
to the actual bus and be able to
actually control
sounds so sci-fi we don't know it's
person there you know what's coming
everything that we're talking about ten
years ago I would have said that sounds
so fine now right right but this is real
this is real so when will that become
real when will the avatars become
reality we actually need a real person
in there also funny little side note is
the fact that they picked those two
locations in a city in Canada because
it's a gravel road yes it's a corduroy
road up there in Canada on the west
coast of Canada there's a corduroy road
connecting the zoo and whatever and
they're right next door so it doesn't
have to go far yeah also side note they
call it the easy mile the company's
called easy mile I get it but we're in
Canada now it's an easy kilometre easy
2.6 kilometers that's right something
like that we may not have calling these
on Mars and faster than the light to
you will get a taste of a bizarre
feature where gadgets turn against their
makers after first betraying their
your TV has been spying on you will
all this gadget drama started on
November 2015 when journalistic watchdog
Pro Publica
exposed Vizio for illegally using its
popular Smart TVs to spy on its
customers the secret feature recorded
what when and where it's TV users were
watching in order to sell their viewing
habits data to advertisers then
advertised advertisers could use that
data to find you on your phone and other
devices and target your you with your
advertisements tailored to those habits
pretty sleazy the company argued that it
was innocent and that all data recording
was anonymous and not specific to each
user and asked the class-action lawsuit
to be dismissed but a California federal
judge didn't buy its arguments two times
in March and July allowing the legal
process to can
this was despite the fact that in
February 2017 the company came to a very
friendly 2.2 million dollar settlement
with the FTC on this investigation as
part of the legal process against the
company I'd agreed to push a notice to
all affected Smart TVs alerting
consumers of what happened and what
their rights are the notice should show
up sometime between September 12th and
October 3rd now more than ever if you
are a Vizio Smart TV owner stay tuned
what kind of TV do you have I have a
Panasonic okay yes Panasonic B I
remember because when the washing
machines were blowing up or whatever it
was I was really worried yeah yeah this
could like be any moment I'm looking at
the calendar hearing today when we're
filming this episode is the 12th so you
may be watching this on your Vizio TV
and suddenly there's that pop-up pop-up
right which they would do because they
would know that you're watching category
five and you would immediately close it
ignoring the pop-up because you want to
watch the show right so it's strategy
artificial intelligence they've got they
know exactly what you're watching Voight
getting in trouble right interesting
right I mean we talk about future
technology and thinking that okay well
what would happen if robots suddenly you
know went through a lawsuit because
they're monitoring what happens if Alexa
I'm sorry oh I keep doing that and then
now every Alexa everywhere is like
canceled
we're cool my babies YouTube we're cool
YouTube I don't want to hear about it
true story
yeah what like what what happens legal
it happens if right yeah and and then
what are the ramifications and what does
that do for for the services because if
it's deemed that hey if we develop a
service that does what these devices
which I'm not going to say the word
because I caught myself what if these
devices are monitoring our every speech
and things and
now we can't we can't create the product
that people want to be able to ask it
for the weather and the cookie recipes
and things like that mm-hmm
and so what if we can't manufacture that
because we're gonna get sued right there
comes a point I guess what it comes down
to I guess where I would have to stop
the that trail of thought and say okay
where this is different is that Vizio
didn't disclose this to their writers
when I buy an echo you know I did that I
know what I'm getting myself into I know
that she's listening right when I
finally write so so is that there is
that my opt-in is that my approval of
okay I understand that if I'm watching
category five and the host messes up
then I'm probably gonna order a
dollhouse
I here's the thing though I think that
it's not about the collection of the
information I assume that there is a lot
of my privacy
that I is that I expect is private but
it's not private like I expect that when
I'm in my living room having a
conversation with the devices around me
probably they're absorbing some of that
conversation that I'm actually pretty
okay with it's the selling it to
somebody else that I'm not okay with but
if it's are we coming into a world
though Sasha we're like because when I'm
on my computer and I'm looking around
suddenly I start getting ads for things
that oh my goodness I really want that
that's so me that's what I've been
looking for right right so if I'm having
a conversation with my wife and it's a
private conversation and in it's being
recorded anonymously in such a way that
it's really just picking up on keywords
and trash and kind of it's making a kind
of a picture of what kinds of things I
like right if I have particular
political views or if I'm interested in
certain technologies if I come home and
tell my wife about how excited I am
about the rock pro 64 and then suddenly
I start seeing advertisements for oh
they've got a case for it right oh you
know that's where the technology has to
go it's it's true I mean I I know that
there are some people who are kind of up
in arms about having a conversation
about something and then seeing
advertisements for it you know days
later somewhat I feel I feel yeah but
other other ways I think it's a bit of
selective perception like it it's that
you're seeing it now because you talked
about it not that you're see like
because you're you're more aware because
you've talked about it it was probably
already there in some cases do you know
what I'm saying
yeah no that the very things I search
for are being advertised to Me's right
the things you search for but not the
conversations you have not yet right I
don't have one of those devices right
but I I'm not against it I not against
it and I think that there is that line
where we are opting into the
technologies that we are purchasing and
we're saying hey this is okay I've got
my smartphone I'm using alright
gooble right and see my carry job
community and so if I'm using that then
mi opted in - yeah right I have to be
okay with what they're using that data
for right right so maybe I'm not maybe I
am I I guess I am I'm like like right
now currently in like obsessed like
infatuated with the tell me about my day
feature oh sure right give me some good
news here what they won't they won't
give me there is no good news in Canada
yes but i but i tell but i ask it to
tell me about my day and the assistant
is amazing i love it i know everything
that's going to happen I know the
weather I know how long it's gonna take
me to my next thing I am down although
the weather better was like we're
unfortunately out of time but please
comment below let us know what your
thoughts are about these kinds of
technologies listening eavesdropping
collecting data in order to advertise
to us is it okay is it something that
we've opted into with the society that
we live in and the technologies that are
around us or is it something that you're
totally uncool with let's comment below
yes
big thanks to Roy W Nash game fairs and
our community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight linux'
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sacha
Rickman Thank You Sasha and I'm Robbie
Ferguson it's been such a pleasure
having you here again with us this week
and we're looking forward to seeing you
again
one week from now take care
