welcome to category five technology TV
what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every Tuesday at 7:00 p.m. Eastern Time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple W category five TV
or email us at live at category five TV
and now let's begin here's your host Rob
a Ferguson welcome to episode number 212
of category five technology TV Tuesday
teeth look backwards and forwards yeah
alright weird a yeah like a palindrome
of numbers oh hey we could like to
create a logo for tonight's show and
it's like it's like in a mirror yeah oh
no but that would be like 5:15 Oh weird
it's Tuesday October the 11th they left
the perfect timing for a goth 2011
hi I am alright I'm having a banner glad
to be alive and I have coffee yes folks
coffee how's the body in the chat room
said they could smell a caffeine
addiction
and flew in on on Twitter hmm reminded
me to put on some coffee or yeah well
thank you
Lewin thank you alright it's good coffee
it is thank you for that I'm kind of
liking it oh wait Cameron we have action
figures excellent
yep always good
well I'll let you kind of tease this -
what's going on yeah we we here's what's
coming up hey Jeff newsroom
yeah but going to a will power HP's
public cloud YouTube a UK's latest movie
rental service pretend hackers plan to
attack the digital infrastructure of the
2012 Olympics the blackberry blackout
continues even after rim said they'd
fixed the problem oh that's no good
yeah discover the Discovery Channel will
be airing a special documentary about
Steve Jobs on Sunday so stick around
these stories are coming up in 30
minutes or less that's cool have you got
your Halloween costume all set up I'm
wearing it listen a actually a couple of
years ago my neighbors were having a
really rowdy great Halloween party and
yeah they'd invited me but I had company
that night we'd had a dinner and I I uh
I love to cook we'd had a really nice
gourmet dinner anyway I decided around
eleven o'clock I just go over and make
an appearance but I was just wearing you
know a dress shirt uh I and stuff like
that and I showed up at the door what
are you dressed ass when I said the
angry neighbor
and behold my was kidding yes okay see
kids that Eric kid yes I asked about
Halloween costumes because we actually
have a category-5 costume store you can
visit online cap five dot TV slash
costumes maybe next year we should have
category five action figure costumes
like we could have a rob me head Oh
Krista head and Hillary cool man we can
maybe put in a word yeah Rachel oh yeah
all you have to do is be right yellow
yeah and fake beer and maybe some fake
you know the fake chest hair see they
make that eek no at the Eric cost it
I'll do it more buttons oh dear me I
tried to behave tonight I told you I was
gonna try to act like more of an adult
in the future but right I have yet to
see have yet to see there's still time
so yeah didn't I
we got lots going on lots of fewer
questions we welcome to get hmm we
welcome you to get your questions in
it's a live at category-five dot TV now
also tonight we're gonna be looking at a
very cool clipboard enhancer for our
Linux system which is going to allow us
not just to have access to our clipboard
but to have access to previous clip
boards on the fly so we're gonna talk
about that it's really really cool
how much memories that gonna use it well
we're gonna see you we're gonna find out
mmm great question wrong time Erik sorry
okay well chatroom how are you nice to
see you going on the chatroom tonight
yeah we're gonna do our best to keep
track of of you guys yeah and yeah what
can you do so I guess we'll jump right
into some viewer question by doing good
valve Nome there Val pen one yes again
one two seven zero zero says Eric looks
like a banana oh oh oh and John says I
look like a canary you know I'm putting
back my red I had a red t-shirt but it
had a hockey logo on it and it was
suggested perhaps that I shouldn't be
advertising so now I'm a banana or a
canary okay this is only option oh sorry
there's more yeah okay sorry little
canary since I didn't have spots I can't
be a banana or plantain okay seriously
happening in the chat room this is going
on this is what yes and it's all about
getting into the chat room being a part
of the technology so that you can also
poke fun at Eric's shirt I like the
shirt anyway okay well we have a
question here
fantastic this is a highly technical one
- all right it's from Leland
hey Leland which is pronounced Leland
okay okay so I'm often um the operating
system is heart lungs terabyte
expandable anyway
Robbie loved the show and this is the
technical question oh okay
do you think Jodie Foster looks like
Hillary what piece the buck masters oh
there we go we have a picture okay chat
room what do you think so this is from
Leland hmm I don't know I guess similar
kind of sides to the eyes how do we get
on this thanks Sharon Leland puddister
oh you never know you never know moving
on and the fact that he took the time to
find similar poses and put them
side-by-side hey thanks very nice oh
where are you where is Hillary matches
Hillary's scars is also from Leland
alright Hillary you have a stalker
Hillary how do I use the chat room oh
well that's a little more reason but
Hillary's not here should we be reading
these questions I feel like him well you
know Eric the interchangeable get a
scarf how do you use the chat room
there's a few different ways first of
all category five dot TV is our website
there Leland let's bring it up when we
are live on the air you're gonna notice
something about our website and that is
that we have a little bit of information
about the live broadcast right on the
homepage of the site it's only there
during the live broadcast let's see over
on the left-hand side here pop up your
players etc etc and then join the chat
room okay you can click that link and
it's gonna launch
alternatively up the top at all times
you've got the interact menu scroll down
you'll see chatroom click on that and it
takes you to the exact same place
now we're gonna enter your nickname
where it says guests and it'll have a
random number we can golf in there
banana Oh lose it it was it like is that
how it's spelled yeah that's okay so we
put in your name there leave this as it
pardon me as is this is our chat room
thanks for the thanks for that okay this
is CAPTCHA this is we're not gonna run
out you call recaptcha yes reCAPTCHA
it's like I love the audio but go ahead
with you tell the story well we were
building a website and we decided that
we should have some kind of validation
here ah yes sent it in
sure so we added the recapture which is
wonderful wonderful great service to you
know translators the letters or you can
click for the the audio CAPTCHA mm-hmm
and honest to goodness
basically it was I think the
instructions were if you can't
understand just smack your hands wildly
and it's like click the audio CAPTCHA
and it was like totally it wasn't
English at all it was it was just there
neither one of us could decipher there
was no figuring it out at all and that
was our first experience with having a
video to send in that form and I'll tell
you definitely so Leland what you need
to do stay away from the audio CAPTCHA
and try your message in about 12 times
it was at that point the boss came over
and so you guys getting any work done
yeah okay so there we go alright so I've
entered that as best I can all right
don't click there do not check off off
to services unless you have a registered
nickname which I'm guessing you don't
and then we hit connect
that's can I go look and boom boom boom
all of a sudden there's Leland in the
chat room
all right so everybody in the chatroom
can see that I've signed in and I can
just go down to the very bottom here in
sign-in
no not with Lila themself hi I am
testing see what I'm doing there just
typing it down there your test as soon
as I hit enter
well it posted that to the chat room see
cool huh woo we know Robbie alright
sorry I was just helping that's option
one I'm gonna close out of that the
other and possibly you know a more
geekify version of that is to actually
use an application for your IRC if
you're using Linux Leland what was he
using there did he mention ah let's go
back and see I don't think he gave me
that much information he just wanted to
talk to Hillary no didn't mention the
operating system oh yes he did in this
previous message wasn't it
okay we're getting there not so much uh
heart lungs Tenten terabyte expandable
Jeep no he didn't we're gonna pretend
you're on Linux cuz that's the most
likely scenario here these days I know
it tends to come with this this guy here
empathy I am NOT an empathy fan I mean
as far as he's not very as far as
they're good as far as the application
goes I am so empathetic so with with
empathy it's pretty straightforward you
can create a new account I can show you
that I'll just make sure that I'm cool
here yeah alright cool here
here we go everywhere Ravi here we are
in empathy edit accounts
we're gonna go ad and then protocol
choose IRC for Internet Relay Chat it's
like that it's already selected free
note for me but that is what you want it
to select free note
okay
password leave blank real name
Leland one two three and then apply it's
gonna connect I am connected I'm good to
go
then once it's connected see it's
connecting right now see how it goes oh
I'm already connected to the server so
it's not gonna let me but it will work
for you so now when that's done say
angry red yeah go to room and then join
and then it'll you want to select Leland
one two three on freenode or whatever it
happens to be and then room pound or
hash category five just like that and
then join that's gonna take you in with
empathy I tend to prefer pigeon which is
a great application that you can get for
your oh oh how interesting there we go
so yeah it's that's that's all there is
to it
does that help all right sure hope so
real there you go thanks for the
question Leland and again pigeon is my
personal preference huh you can walk
through the steps it's pretty simple
again you want to add an IRC chat what's
going on oh god said canary nitrogen but
good okay okay
I don't know what kind of sound the
canary makes oh yeah good point there
Dave made you it is pigeon PID GIM that
should be clarified a they should learn
how to spell not an ornithologist I bet
here we go okay system administration
synaptic package manager' enter your
password there Leland
type in P I deg was it I am oh yeah
there we go mark for installation grabs
a couple of other packages hit apply
it'll download that Louis Linux is
fantastic for installing applications it
is to don't even have to know the
website or anything but if pigeon dot I
am in case you were wondering
there goes almost there this is category
five technology TV I'm your host Rob
ever gotten and I'm Eric Kidd and I'm
hoping villains out there somewhere
tonight watching definitely definitely
down here category five dot TV is our
website you see our Twitter account
there as well category five TV make sure
you follow us and say hi that pigeon
application is all done installing
something to close out of synaptic
package manager I'm going to go
applications internet and you'll see now
you should have pigeon which I do not I
said I think I have something going on
with my horn OS installation but no
problem you you will generally see
pigeon there otherwise hit alt f2 and
type in the word pigeon okay and spell
it with two eyes no ease rows yeah and
that's how it's spelled okay with a
lowercase P when you're running the
application okay add IRC for Internet
Relay Chat user naming Leland no spaces
remember five four three two one this
time notice this particular application
is defaulted to irc2 boon to comm which
would be fine but we're gonna go IRC dot
freenode dotnet that's the chat server
that we use here category five password
again we're not registered so don't
worry about it
advanced everything looks good all good
ad it's gonna connect notice down here
available connecting not quite connect
dead let's see what happens here
it's not moving oh it's doing something
I'll close out of synaptic I didn't
close all the way
come on bad boy it's a coming it's
coming there we go Oh as soon as I
switch camera oh it just flipped
available so it was just waiting to
connect there okay Leland and this is
pigeon remember buddies join a chat and
you notice that it's using IRC DUP
freenode net we're gonna go a game
channel that a little hash sign
category-five okay and then go join now
there we go
you got a beautiful colorized chatroom I
prefer this greatly over the empathy IRC
client it looks really good it works
really well
it saves HTML logs if you want to you
can actually go save as and save your
log file as an HTML file very cool yeah
it's kind of nice cool there we go
Leland you have three different ways to
use the chatroom
first of which is the absolute easiest
which is to say to use our website
category 5 TV well this is Leland Robi
hey this is Lila oh well I kind of I
kind of took over as lemur there for a
minute didn't I
Leland you're gonna change your name the
whole time chat rooms like oh look
Leland's here great hey Leland Robbie's
just about to show you it's not from
Leland thank you for the questions leave
yes appreciate it
Randy M hey Randy and not telling us you
know us either but I really liked your
mobile website I was wanting a mobile
template for my website viewable with
iPod are you required to use PHP without
a server thanks much for incredible show
Randy fantastic question I would love to
we're gonna take a look at our mobile
site in just a couple of minutes and
then I'll show you how to actually set
up a website specifically for your
mobile devices Oh
all right we're gonna have to take a
break for just a moment and we'll be
right back after this dusty trails
liquid image Canada captures the action
with a true point-of-view HD video
camera directly into a high-quality MX
goggle it records every bit of the
excitement exactly how you see it if my
octane isn't your thing take a relaxing
underwater adventure and capture it
forever in high-definition video with a
high-quality underwater camera mask from
liquid image Canada perfect for the
enthusiast snorkeler or the deep-sea
diver check out the entire line of
camera masks for every sport liquid
image canada.com
this is category 5 technology TV triple
W category 5 dot TV your question is how
can I set up a mobile website does it
require that I have access to PHP for
example let's first of all start off
here Randy by taking a look at our
mobile website I've got my ipod touch
here there you go
a little hard for you to see at home
there it is okay so that's last week's
episode what's really cool is this week
we launched version 2.1 and you'll see
that now we have a watch live feature so
now even though we are live on the air
right now it's just a little bit behind
it's just in the middle of that
commercial that just aired there you go
cool stuff well yeah so that's that's
part of our mobile website mobile dot
cat5 dot TV lots of great features there
if you've got a portable device iPhone
iPod Touch blackberry realism Androids
coming up about those you know there's a
lot of people in Europe and and China
that are a little a little frustrated
with with blackberry right now
just sayin but it is it's pretty cool
let's bring it up on the iPad just so
that you can have a bit of a better view
there we are so that's our mobile
website as Randy was saying it's it's
pretty cool you can go through and view
different episodes right it's got all
that kind of stuff it's cool stuff but
how do we do that
do we need PHP technically no you don't
need PHP what you do need though is a
web server it's a website right but
doesn't have to be a separate website or
can you post it on your existing website
that's really the question so what we
have tapped into is that there are some
fantastic libraries out there take a
look you know do some searching Randy
over here on Google I'm going to type in
I WebKit okay so go over to snippet
space.com
and you'll see here is my WebKit 5 learn
more there are some demos on the website
as well which you would want to in fact
run on your iPhone or Android device
because it's not designed to be run in a
browser but you can see that it it looks
very much like like an apple app
basically so you can actually download
that it's free there we go nice and
quick so we've got the demo and we've
got the framework so with a little bit
of knowledge knowledge you'll be able to
set this up and you'll notice that
within the samples they are not PHP
files but in fact HTML files so these
are statically set pages there is one
that's a PHP file which loads a blog
through an RSS feed a little bit
different as far as how that works
so you can you can technically do this
with strictly HTML personally Randy I
prefer to go the PHP route because
then I can go dynamic you worried I'm
not tied down to you know if you look at
this here's the examples folder and it's
like okay each one of these files is a
different basically a page which is
interpreted as a screen in your
application
do I really if I change the menu do I
really want to have to open every single
one of those and try to match it up I'd
rather just have a PHP include so that's
I WebKit there's another one called Jas
let's see don't tell me I forget the
name of it I won't tell you but oh well
this is YC look at what's happening here
Google I'm typing bad there we go
this this can be annoying be mindful of
this sometimes Google can mess with your
search results right look what's
happening here I'm trying to search for
this program Jay s query right and it's
saying hey you probably spelled it wrong
we're gonna do a search for jQuery
instead so you well know well that's the
wrong thing that's not what I want at
all I want right there we want to go
search instead for what I asked for in
the first place all right just give it
to me there we go
I'm gonna post links in the show notes
for episode number 212 I better make
sure I've got the app name right
you should just yeah just really really
quick go to our app click on a boat I'm
totally wrong and it's okay cuz that's
why we that's not yeah
Denis you can delete that whole segment
all right when you're in post with this
one just that whole thing about Jay s
query we don't even know what that is
but we learned something about Google
today and that's what it's all about
it's called JQ touch that's the one I
want to show you I was like jQuery what
osq they're pretty close to each other
yeah I know
JQ Touch is in many respects a little
further along then my web kit it
features a lot of animation so it has
some pretty cool stuff you look at Jake
you touch see the demo here even and you
can see how it animates everything in
just like an iPhone app and it'll work
on other devices it's it's showing an
iPhone but it works on Android and all
that stuff you use it Canadia so this is
in fact the platform that we have based
version 2.0 of our mobile system off of
and the reason that I switched away from
my WebKit is because this one gave me
some functionality especially speed that
was not quite there with with I WebKit
but that said they are both fantastic
frameworks
I found that I WebKit they've been
promoting version 6 coming coming soon
for too long and I take you touch is now
in my eyes kind of surpassed my WebKit
because they're continuing development
faster in the public eye my web kits
development is kind of waiting for the
developer to bring out version 6 which
is you know highly enhanced so on our
mobile website I actually I in fact
disabled most of these animations
because despite what they're showing you
there they're very clunky on some some
mobile devices so I made the sacrifice
and said you know what I want it to be
instant when you click I don't want
things jumping all around if you have a
problem where you know you scroll down a
list and you click on it and it jumps up
to the top and then animates I just
wasn't into that heat mmm so this again
Jake you touch is going to give you
pardon me a free download ok
it's a little bit bigger you can see
it's taking a little bit longer to
download six seconds left here we go
okay so now in here what do we have
we've got demos extensions Jake you
touch the actual the actual framework
and themes okay so if we go into demos
you can basically use any of these to
design your site and again it's an HTML
JQ touch is different because it uses
all one file to create your entire
system so that's one of the reasons with
Jake you touch that I wanted to do it in
PHP because we're using you know
databases we're making a dynamic system
because it's all one page essentially
like from a file standpoint it's one dot
PHP file that grabs data from the
database and inputs it properly if
you're trying to do it in an HTML file
you might have trouble once you get to a
certain size in that it might just be
hard to manage still going to load fast
it is Ajax so you know it's only loading
the divs
that it needs essentially as long as
you're using a mobile device
if you bring it up in your browser it's
gonna try to load everything but so and
that my friends is why I was in
determining what is going through your
mobile app and what is it well it's
gonna just out of the box Jake you touch
and I WebKit are just gonna run you saw
how I ran the demo the demo of I WebKit
in my browser it's pretty cool so what
I've actually done through PHP is I
created if you go to our website the
mobile site on your internet browser
like on your computer it automatically
detects that it's a computer and you're
not allowed to go any further yeah so
and that's important for us because they
imagine you've got you know 211 videos
loading in the background of your
browser whoops yes I mean cuz they
buffer right yes so check those two out
i WebKit Jake you touch both of those
free download free to use
is that just free for an iPhone yeah hi
device or no these are my words any
bullet work on old mobile framework so
um we can ask the chat room you've got
your blackberry there I do have my
wireless coz okay we're not on wireless
mics anymore so I suppose that's okay
not a bad thing because I know the
BlackBerry does make a ding ding kind of
that's kinda
so really the like that weird sound
that's probably causing cancer that one
yeah that one let's see now I can't
connect your voice to have that in radio
that yeah we don't have Wi-Fi here okay
so it's not it another well-known go
there I've got some messages coming in
go to mobile doc cat5 TV on your device
and let us know in the chat room what
it's how it's performing and that will
answer Eric's question about how does it
work I know for a fact with AI WebKit
which was our version 1.0 version of our
mobile site you remember it worked
perfectly on there it worked on every
device that we could test on ok well
here we are okay so he's bringing us up
on his Blackberry and it looks like it's
working just fine so episodes that's
cool where should I go well I don't want
to click on donate
that would be great that'd be great
everyone go and click on it that's your
favorite button right there ok
oh I just closed it again all right what
do you think Android it's working for
invincible mutant now of course our
watch live features is so far only
tested on Apple I devices hey Leland
that really long could be could be and
they made it to the chat room so that's
fantastic
ok good to see ya yeah ok is that does
that does that kind of answer your
question about it's pretty cool mobile
sites yeah of course there is a level of
you need to understand a little bit of a
web development the design is already in
place you just need to be able to code
it put stuff in there so start with one
of the start with one of the demos and
see how it goes put in your own text put
in a couple images and
learn as you can't hurt exactly yes it's
not brain surgery nobody actually gets
hurt if you mess up well are you ready -
bad - go go - move over to the news room
alright I think that sounds great
okay from the category 5 TV newsroom on
Friday canonical CEO James silver
announced that the OpenStack conference
in Boston that HP had chosen Ubuntu as
the lead host and guest operating system
powering their public cloud HP and
canonical are working closely together
on a private beta to make certain that
they provide the most secure scalable
business class cloud to companies of all
sizes Wow in a Buddhist blog Kim zero
says maybe that's Kim oh we are excited
to join with HP and recognizing that
open and interoperable cloud
infrastructure and services are critical
in delivering the next generation of
cloud based services to developers I as
bees and businesses both companies share
a common commitment to open source and
both embrace the OpenStack community
this is an important announcement on
several fronts that OpenStack is seen as
the platform of choice for building out
the largest public clouds and that
Ubuntu has what it takes to power
OpenStack clouds as a scalable and
hardened host of OS and responsive and
flexible guest OS that sounds
substantial it certainly does well when
you think about Ubuntu powering HP's
cloud that is HUGE
so you Wow yeah YouTube has announced
that UK users may now rent movies
directly through the YouTube web site
partners providing movies for the UK
service include Universal Lions Gate
Entertainment 1 as well as independent
British filmmakers such as Metrodome and
revolver entertainment new releases will
cost three pounds forty nine how do you
say that I would say 49 well what would
you say maybe three pound 49 Peck I love
it no jaw is just the only guy who know
okay let's think let's figure this out
you don't even look at the jammer homes
I mean what is it quit three
three-and-a-half quit how's that three
between two point four nine pounds and
that's the extent of our conversion
ability we are not EXCI well that's
worth about two dollars and cents per
pound here isn't it yeah anyway new
releases will cost three point four nine
pounds to rent and library titles two
point four point four nine users have 30
days to begin watching a film and 48
hours to finish it once they start which
is perfect for those of us who like to
plan ahead and watch our movies in five
minute increments the service puts
YouTube into direct competition with
movie rentals services offered by Apple
PlayStation and Xbox as well as
subscription offerings like love film
hmm
yeah so there we should actually do some
little research on how to deal with the
British oh there they instantly correct
us in the chat room chat room I think it
was Dave who said yeah a
three-and-a-half quid sounds good
okay but then Andrew was saying no no
that sounds Australian well he just
can't win you just can't win okay you're
about eight bucks American okay to be
played out in March and May just months
ahead of the game's opening
they include massive denial of service
attack on the official website and the
virus getting into organizers computers
one of the biggest fears around the
Olympics is not a crash server or power
outage but the deliberate attack by
cyber criminals during the period of the
2008 Beijing Olympics China was subject
to a book twelve million online attacks
per day Oh UK has learned lessons from
its predecessor it said Jerry panel
chief information officer for London
2012 the approach of the website is a
distributed
one that minimizes the DDoS attack group
he explained security testing on the
system will be carried out an especially
isolated version of the Olympic Network
using an in-house team of pretending to
hackers that's interesting wording that
would be a fun day hey hey you Joe you
wanna you want to be a hacker today yep
yep I can pretend no I want to be a
pretend hacker okay
are they anatomically correct no we'll
leave em alone just a few hours after
blackberry maker Research In Motion said
all services were operating normally
following yesterday's blackberry
blackout users began complaining of a
new crash twitter has been full of angry
users reporting renewed issues with
their handsets and an inability to send
messages and email it would appear that
they had to send those angry tweets from
a computer or borrow their friend's
iPhone the initial blackout saw
blackberry services across Europe the
Middle East and Africa disrupted
problems now seem to have spread to
Latin America as well
rim has acknowledged that it has was
still experiencing problems as of this
morning saying some users in Europe the
Middle East and Africa India Brazil
Chile Argentina are experiencing
messaging and browsing delays they go on
to say we are working to restore normal
service as quickly as possible we
apologize for any inconvenience that
this is caused are you affected by a rim
outage let us know we want to hear from
you
minds working fun okay the biggest news
to hit the tech world this week is not
pleasant news at all but the sad
departure of Steve Jobs Apple co-founder
and CEO following his death on Wednesday
it seemed the whole world went into
mourning with users of Apple devices
feeling a kinship to the man who made
possible the very device they were
tweeting their thoughts from to remind
us of Steve Jobs impact on the world of
technology Discovery Channel has
announced a quickly produced documentary
that will look back at the many ways
Apple visionary Steve Jobs in
luhan's Modern Life Adam Savage and
Jamie Hyneman from Mythbusters will host
the documentary I genius how Steve Jobs
changed the world which will premiere on
Discovery Channel this Sunday October
16th so you can get the full stories at
category-five TV slash newsroom the
category 5 TV newsroom is researched by
Roy W Nash with contributions by our
community of viewers if you have a news
story you think is worthy of on-air
mentioned email newsroom app category 5
TV for the category 5 TV newsroom I'm
Eric Kidd and there it was well we know
your BlackBerry's working fine and that
was the noise that you were talking
about I see well now I understand so
there you go hey apps I should turn off
my wireless again and just there you go
so we don't have these young
interruption hasn't anything to do with
the microphones anymore but what's cool
is the sound is fantastic tonight and
that is thanks to music Pro in Barry and
they would be happy to receive your
order by phone they will ship it
anywhere in Canada or the United States
so give them a call and you can find
their website Kat Malaysian
unfortunately not Malaysia this week
they they will ship to anywhere in
Canada in the United States and that's
the extent so if that covers you then
it's a great opportunity for you to get
a great deal on a fantastic musical
instrument or mixer device microphones
whatever you need give them a call visit
their website
it's cat5 dot TV / music Pro also
tonight's episode of category 5
technology TV is brought to you in part
by Pogoplug cat5 TV / Pogoplug as well
planet calypso cat5 dot TV / play
calypso pardon me
cat 5 TV / calypso so many things start
wailing rude to the letter key and I
start to stumble there we go but alright
somebody want to know why I said
Malaysia didn't we have a winner from we
actually did yeah we sent a bunch of
batteries invincible mutant we're
thinking of you my friend yes
oh that was it was he who indeed how
making fun just I am NOT making fun
I call it poking fun poking and we
actually got an email do you have that
available invincible mail perhaps who in
fact was our winner for the Eco alkaline
z-- giveaway cat5 dot TV slash eco how'd
we do
hi Robbie and gang I can be gang for
tonight yeah and they've included some
pictures here look at this here are all
the way to Malaysia yes yes we ship to
Malaysia yeah thanks for the nice poster
this is your newest ultra the poster
yeah the red brick background and Rachel
was already on the poster he make you
very much I love the poster Cheers
invincible mutants I got a message from
invincible mutant in the chat room a
little bit earlier and said did you guys
just Photoshop in your signatures or was
this legit heck we all piled in vehicles
we sure to the photo shop come on hurry
up we need this print it now
well it'll be about an hour no we need
it now we we convinced she was so great
you were very charming I was charming
you were charming I looked menacing I
think they didn't look too busy they
said it was gonna be an hour so it's
like no and you found that have a snack
I found this really nice pan it looks
great sure that this is a picture that
invincible mutant accent oh yeah yeah it
was a fun little extrude we went on a
little adventure so we could sent you
that before you just infantry Union yes
indeed and of course the pictures as
well from the the prize that invincible
mutant got look at that check it out
they have retiled their kitchen floor
with eco alkaline batteries thanks cat 5
dot TV slash eco do you congratulations
once again with battery oh they sure do
yeah look at that yeah blaze sees lots
tons stacks upon stacks a full year
supply awesome congratulations once
again for for winning that invincible
mutant
oh geez there's more yeah I brought them
all up okay so should we when you got
anything in the chat room will open up
to the chat room as well oh we have
something here for many guys from Sweden
can you bring one home - mm-hmm okay
thank this is from Bjorn II thanks for a
great show follow it on video
now as you taste all 11.10 looks not so
different from 10.04 hmm I love it so
far it works perfectly on my both pcs
come on Fujitsu Siemens scale OT desktop
and I have had it both compact and
Fujitsu laptops ok sent some pics from
outside Stockholm follow the Finland
boat between the islands the dogs are so
lucky era Dems Zee yeah we're getting
right greetings from Sweden B or and
more pictures of the water stud hey
fantastic you know thank you for sending
the pictures well and I and I say you
know we'd love to see where you're from
the best thing that I mean and thank you
very much for sending those to us neat
to see what it's like out there and
beautiful beautiful dog I would love to
receive an actual physical postcard and
we've been saying it for a few weeks but
you know send us one down at the very
bottom of our website I'm having trouble
talking friends sorry about that it's
all choked up when he thinks about a
real live hard copy realized postcard
beautiful you know you solder paste and
that's just amazing
alright I'll have a drink and I'll be
better at the bottom of our website
you'll see our mailing address we'd love
to receive an actual postcard from you
for some viewer points and of course it
was a stamp I'm sorry and we'll send
some some beer points your way as well
Bjorn and everyone else who submitted
photos tonight as well an important note
I just
definitely not definitely not it's your
patent okay any questions in the chat
room we'll just give you a moment there
just to get your questions in via the
chat room don't want to miss yeah I know
sometimes it's hard for us to keep up so
we'll just take this moment you'll take
that moment well I have another question
here in the let's get email okay that's
great really let's I want to give the
chat room just a chance okay well let's
go into the chat room then a chat room
back over the chat room everybody so
good to see ya and while we wait how's
your week going oh who suggested this
was not a question but okay don't lick
the stamp
they have their own self stick now so
Oh John's got something for us Wow
thanks for that
okay what does John have for us I'm not
seeing it he's not wearing his classes
job this is why the chatroom falls
behind
sorry chatroom oh that was about the
GIMP oh well John says there's somebody
asked him to say hello I love you show
you oh I did not see that what that was
above there okay well there you go
so John says Ravi a fair kid somebody
asked me to say hello I love your show
you are so bald and skilled at matin how
to draw triangles thank you right right
okay I remember the question brilliant
Oh real quick Josh ChaCha bring up the
GNU image manipulation program it comes
with most Linux distributions and of
course gets me back 11.10 you can get it
for Windows you can get for Windows and
get it on Mac it's wonderful okay watch
this file new ah sure there we go okay
look at the cool thing up here you've
got a little measuring dude at that when
you move it actually moves that little
arrow okay so if I select a pencil for
example okay and I click on let's get
out just a little bit
you're moving the mouse on one hand
you're messing her I know I'm zooming
either all right I just need to be able
to see both okay so I'm gonna go there
I'm gonna go see how watch the top see
that little arrow at the top watch what
I'm doing I've clicked on 300 and what I
should do is go 300 to 100 I'm using
that as a guide okay 300 to 100 see that
you're perilously close perfect now it's
real line ago though I'm gonna go left
100 so I'm down to 200 at the top there
and down 100 down to 200 my left shift
key watch what happens when I do okay
and click now go right 100 200 to 400
I'm gonna zoom out just a little bit so
I can see on the left I'm still at 200
click and then back up to 300 and 100
holding my left shift key click and I in
fact have essentially a perfect triangle
Wow because we know that the proportions
are exact because we use the measuring
tool cool and there you have a triangle
okay that's in the GNU image
manipulation program
gimp.org check it out if you're on KDE
you've heard of clipper it's a brilliant
tool no it's fantastic but I'm unknown
no I want something like that so I'm
gonna go into system administration
synaptic package manager notice I'm
using the GUI you can use apt if you
prefer so you would want to go oh
clipper right but that's a KDE tool it's
available but it's 4k to eat instead
let's get creative and say it's not for
KDE it's for gnome it's called clipper
and this is very different from the
clipper database program from years ago
yes yeah this is a fantastic clipboard
tool all right called GLIP ER
watch what's gonna happen here and apply
that it's gonna grab it off the internet
cuz again I don't need any discs don't
need to go out and seek out applications
it's all available to me through
repositories on Linux
here comes and it's done that's it
closed out
now you can hit alt f2 I've got a
problem with my system so I'm just gonna
my alt f2 doesn't work I'm just gonna go
into my terminal and type flipper gli
pper you could have done that with alt
f2 so now up in the top right hand side
see a new little clipboard icon okay
doesn't seem to do anything watch this
I'm gonna bring up just for the
demonstration text editor I'm gonna go
hello hello world okay I'm gonna
highlight that and copy it and highlight
that and copy it individually so now if
I clear out my file burn me my file
you'll see if I paste what's the word
world because that's the last thing I
copied that's the traditional clipboard
that's what we're used to but what
happens if you know you were on a
website you copied the URL to your
clipboard and then you forgot that it
was there went around and started
copying other stuff and then realized oh
I've lost that URL right so now retrace
your steps yeah watch this clip on that
and click on that single click on our
new icon and we'll see that everything
that we have highlighted not even copy
but just highlighted is now available so
we've got hello so if I click on hello
now if I paste into my text editor the
word hello comes up space pick up that
again change to world over here paste so
what it's actually doing is its allowing
me to switch to previous clipboards no
window says future live done I don't
know I think it does program possibly
I don't use windows all that much
anymore terrible thing in there so that
is deliver the clipper flipper flipper
clipper
sounds like flipper or clipper but it is
GLIP er check that out it's it's really
a cool tool just one of those things
that you do once you've got it installed
you're gonna always want to have it
running
speaking of so is there one format
called mullet birth yes you got em use
this guy three sir one for Windows yeah
install Linux oh oh okay here's what we
want to do next system preferences nope
accidentally clicked preferences down
here startup applications we're gonna
click on add ready to go hey clipper in
the name I can use a capital but in the
command xx is a lowercase okay bleep
clipper and we're gonna say huh
clipboard enhancer whatever you want to
put that that's just a comment had so
now Oh GLIP are already added itself -
how cool is that so you can actually
check clipboard history manager know oh
it even called it something fancier see
I thought we had to add it we don't even
have to add it it's already there it's
gonna automatically start but double
check that's your next step it's a cool
tool
just a little Linux tip for you ya know
what oh I think guest one two seven zero
zero feels like his life is somehow
better now that he can make a perfect
triangle yep just job feels better about
that price like the ruled over in
triangles yeah french fries I don't know
okay since must been cooking french
fries maybe that was one maybe team
there a few weeks ago who did we talk
about the Pro Tem but then yeah
intriguing yeah
okay ubuntu 11.10 is coming out this
Thursday Dave maid who was wondering in
the chat room how many of you are
actually going to go download it
Thursday onwards and check it out
okay okay goosey I am using Negi Oh sir
Nagios however you want to say it cool
monitoring software for your server what
just over here just juts making me smile
okay good he has no idea what that was
but you forced him to say it
yeah was anybody checking out 11.10 this
week don't forget Thursday cool Chris
Reich says no I'm gonna stick to the LTS
releases okay all right you have another
one for me oh we have another question
here from me from the email all right
this is Jim Franklin hey Jim
aka old guy Jim ah ah I've not heard too
much about lubuntu 32-bit versus 64-bit
the download page at the Boone who
always recommends 32-bit do you know why
that is I would think there would be a
move to 64-bit to allow for better RAM
usage as always thanks for all the hard
work behind the scenes that is done for
the broadcast
okay Jim you get it dude seriously I
don't know the official answer to this I
think and tell me and tell me if you
agree 32-bit is safer for them to mark
it on a mass scale this buddy is not
everybody has 64-bit if you download the
32-bit it will work on either so I think
they're making the assumption that if
you have a 64-bit capable machine if and
you know it yeah right okay does that
reasonable yeah
they know if you download the 32-bit gem
it's gonna work but if they recommend
that you download the 64-bit because it
gives you this this and this which it
does and you have a 32-bit only
processor then people are gonna say well
why doesn't it work why doesn't a blue
to work so their safety is to say we
recommend the 32-bit because we know
what's gonna work on everything and they
just assume that you know that you have
a 64-bit capable processors so you know
you're wise enough to get the 64-bit
version okay is that like when you get
the menu and if they say if you have to
ask how much it is you can't afford it
if you're fast you probably don't know
why there are no prices on this menu why
are you wearing a tuxedo oh no you don't
need to clean my glass again hmm scary I
could be pricey dinner Jim I would say
definitely if you know you've got a
64-bit capable processor it is time to
get on a 64-bit Linux distro that is the
better way to go yeah you don't have
everything backed up go for it oh sure
start over again
absolutely so there 64 bits gonna give
you access to more memory than PAE ken
um it's gonna opening up for faster
processing future-ready
the ability to add more RAM and
virtualize a little bit better
I'm so sorry folks it's tough tonight
talk for an hour with with a cough hmm
well I mean Jeff stayed up until 2 a.m.
there in his room to watch the show
tonight
Thanks morning this afternoon thanks so
much for all for being here joining us
in the chat room as well to boot Oh an
old guy jim says thanks so cheers to
having to know that Jim was watching let
us know how it goes a would love to hear
from you know right on our website
category 5 dot TV well that is a slow
transition there we go
oh we're there now Michelle has a
question of to us outlook photo gallery
this is a new feature on our website but
I'm just playing around I'm gonna tell
you to go to that actual page because
then if we decide to change our service
provider we can right now we're using
Flickr Wow I'm not too sure about them
because we're licensed under Creative
Commons Attribution they don't allow us
to license the photos under that license
so it's I don't really like that but it
does give you a chance to see some of
our photos from our photo shoot for
season five
all right real quick we've got okay
doesn't have a question hey and says
they're good tell Robbie I need help
reverting from gnome a unity on 11.04
hmm unfortunately don't have time for
for that particular question tonight
just do it next week maybe we certainly
could could you pop us an email live at
category five dot TV and I regret that
we didn't get to your question earlier
in the show so sorry about that it was
probably the guy that yellow shirts
fault the canary or the banana or the
plantain or whatever those mean people
have called me tonight no I'll get over
it it could be nice folks they're not
going anywhere in a green t-shirt but
it's it's all good thanks for taking the
fall ma'am hey I'm here for you could
have been worse here for you I really
contemplated putting on a trek uniform a
little studious though you can see the
chat room now that's good
wonderful all right 2:00 a.m. in Israel
and he stayed up for an answer and you
didn't give it to him I need more
information
pop me an email okay so sorry live at
category five TV we're right at a time
everybody thank you so much for being
here with us tonight
this is category five TV you'll find us
online triple w category five dot TV
thanks so much for being with us tonight
and Eric nice to see you hey thanks for
helping thanks for being here yes yeah
good times
I even shaved well save the Adam's apple
yeah just for the show name
I don't off the hockey are you hockey
hockey yes it is oh this is scary time
scary time unbelievable well everybody
have a fantastic week we will talk to
you again next Tuesday night Rachel Xu
is going to be here in the studio
joining us for the first time as co-host
and I'm looking forward to that episode
you want to definitely be here we're
gonna be doing some pretty cool stuff
but I'm looking forward to that yeah I
mean come watch cool stuff going on with
Adobe Photoshop Rachel's gonna show us
how we can do some fantastic texturing
and we're gonna see if we can do those
things on the gimp below the battle
continues and the battle continues open
source versus closed source expensive
we'll talk to you next Tuesday have a
great week
