welcome back to new every day my name is
Carrie and my name is Jen and on today's
show we're going to talk about the
importance of belief and the
consequences of believing right off and
not believe
this is the story of Operation Christmas
Child some it may just be a shoebox but
to millions is the start of the greatest
journey traveling the world sent with
prayer to box gifts fill the hearts of
children from over 100 different
countries with hope faith and love
welcome back to another episode of new
everyday we're so glad that you tuned in
I'm just so thankful for our viewers Jen
we were meeting with them Robbie
Ferguson the producer and editor of this
show who also supports category 5 TV
network and he was showing us some of
the numbers of the people watching like
hundreds of thousands of people are
tuning in his grace from all over the
world so thank you i think that's
amazing we have such a great community
of people following so that's really
exciting so if you have been tuning in
regularly and you would like to donate
to this production please go to patreon
patr 0n calm and from there you can
actually search category 5 TV and you
can donate 25 cents per episode or a
dollar per episode so that would be a
dollar a month or four dollars a month
whatever you choose and that's really
going to help cover the costs of making
this show happen yes so I did it it was
super easy you just fill in your
information and away you go and that
will come that it'll come out as a
dollar a month instead of 25 cents each
week yeah right we are excited about
this episode Christmas is right around
the corner yes right around the corner
and so people start to get excited in
fact you know Christmas decorations tend
to go up right after Halloween and there
was this big thing on facebook about
okay can we just hold off on the
Christmas decorations
until until remembrance day so let's
remember every Wednesday Oh first yeah
and then lets you know jump into to
Christmas and as I like look through all
my feed feeds on feed on facebook so
many people have started christmasing
like the decorations have gone up the
Christmas presents are being purchased
and I admit like I have one left to get
plus stockings ilable I just when I go
into the store I'm like I need to get
something for this person so and that
way it's spread out over time so it's
not one great big lump so I have
traditionally been a Christmas Eve
shopper oh boy oh yes I know I know and
then up into the wee hours of the
morning Christmas Eve to wrap them but
that's how my whole family did it ha it
was just a thing I know it's so good I
think I started last January oh my gosh
but the cool thing about Christmas is
gift-giving but gift receiving and the
best gift of all is Jesus Christ right
and so and I you know sometimes I wonder
what's with all the gift giving and the
Christmas saying the traditions and when
we really want to focus on who Jesus is
and all that other stuff is really good
as long as you don't get carried away or
all of a sudden you know all your money
time effort goes into making the
traditions of Christmas happen and
actually pouring into who Jesus Christ
is and who he is and why he came yes and
so if that can be your first focus that
I'm okay with the traditions and you
know putting things in their proper
place and so for the next three or four
weeks we'll see how it goes we're going
to talk about what does it mean to
believe in Jesus Christ because he see
how that came at Christmas it says if
you confess with your mouth that Jesus
is Lord and believe in your heart that
God raised him from the dead you will be
saved that's Romans 10 9 but the story
begins in Luke yeah
and we were just talking quickly about
how Christmas and all that all that
happens at least in North American
Christmas is that there's a distraction
with believing in Santa right so the
focus has been taken off of Jesus and
putting our belief in him that he came
and he actually was born in a manger and
and then all the events around his birth
actually happened and we're focusing on
this figure yes who you know has a
historical basis yes in st. Nicholas but
this Santa I remember as a kid like
genuinely believing that this guy came
into my home we didn't have a chimney
for him to come down but he came in
somehow and I and my belief in him was
proven by my actions so I wanted to be a
good girl mm-hmm because I knew that if
I was good I'd be on the good list and i
would get good presents and I put out
milk and cookies milk for Santa cookies
for him and I put out a carrot for his
reindeer so nice I did it genuinely
believing that it was real and then
there was a reward for my belief in that
I got a present saying from Santa so I
didn't grow up I wasn't a Christian
growing up until I was in my teens so my
parents thought it was great that I
believed in say it done I remember
putting out the carrot for the reindeer
and then my parents would like crush it
up and put it outside on the yard as if
like the reindeer had chewed it up on
the yard so the belief was reinforced by
the things that I saw right but
initially I had to act on my belief
right right right and I think that's the
main point you acted on your belief and
the story you want to look at today
potentially too because sometimes our
conversation gets sidetracked and you
might have to wait till next week to
hear the rest of the story but we want
to start with a story of Zechariah and
how
well we'll start so Luke one verse eight
wanna should we start there mmm all
right one day Zechariah was serving as a
pre so this is new century version one
day Zechariah was serving as a priest
before God because his group was on duty
according to the custom of the priest he
was chosen by lot to go into the temple
of the Lord and burn incense there were
a great many people outside praying at
the time the incense was offered then an
angel of the Lord appeared to Zechariah
is standing on the right side of the
incense table then he saw the when he
saw the angel Zechariah was startled and
frightened but the angel said to him
sakurai ax don't be afraid God has heard
your prayer your wife Elizabeth will
give birth to a son and you will name
him John he will bring you joy and
gladness and many people will be happy
because of his birth John will be a
great man for the Lord he will never
drink wine or beer and even from birth
he will be filled with the Holy Spirit
he will help many people of Israel
return to Lord their God he will go
before the Lord and spirit in perak like
elijah he will make peace between
parents and their children and will
bring those two who are not obeying God
back to the right way of thinking to
make a people ready for the coming of
the Lord Zakaria said to the angel how
can I know that you what you say is true
I'm an old man and my wife is old too
the angel answered him I am Gabriel I
stand before God who sent me to talk to
you and to tell you this good news now
listen you will not be able to speak
until the day these things happen
because you did not believe what I told
you but they will really happen when we
were reading through this so many things
jumped out to me about believing and the
first thing jen first i want to
highlight that it says earlier that both
Zacharias and his wife Elizabeth were
righteous before God walking in all the
commandment accordionist ordinances of
the Lord blamelessly yes so they were
serving yes lame lessly which is
amazing yeah they were following the
commandments he was serving in the
priesthood and yet when an angel appears
to him he still it seems like he's he's
uncertain and doesn't necessarily
believe what the Angels saying in the
way that he's phrasing it how shall I
know all this for I am an old man and my
wife is well advanced in years this is
New King James Version and you can and
your says mine says how can I know that
what you say is true I'm an old man and
my wife is true too and I love the fact
that you pointed out verse sex that
Zechariah and Elizabeth truly did what
the Lord said was good they were
righteous and yet night they're not
believing well there yeah even when the
angels comes before them an angel at and
I love Gabriel's response like I'm
Gabriel yeah hello i am standing before
you and i had stood in the presence of
god yeah but i'm wondering and what
struck me as you as you said the verse /
6 was why they're righteous people
they're following the commands of God
and yet for some reason they're not
believing and yeah because I'm realizing
what has happened in their life that has
caused them not to believe even though
they love the Lord and serve him with
all of their hearts hmm something has
happened and and I'm wondering if you
know cuz he says he's praying I'm
wondering if he had prayed for his wife
all his life and just nothing nothing
yeah thing nothing and that kind of
hardens you a little bit yeah he was
still serving yes and maybe there are
some people in the church even and
you've served God your whole life and
you just you know what you just keep
getting up on the Sunday you just keep
going to church or just keep reading
your Bible just keep doing those things
yeah but also highlights to me that God
is not bound by the same sense of time
that we have right and when we think
he's not going to fulfill a promise he
still does because he's faithful yeah
and I think that's what I'm I'm agreeing
like how many people watching right now
have prayed
for something and have served God their
entire life and are like okay Lord like
where are you I am faithful to you so
often we can get as believers we can say
well I love Jesus I serve him well then
how come he's not answering my prayers
or how come he allowed this to happen we
can get caught up in in the wise right
and and like Abraham here he's like well
how can I know that what you say is true
it's like it's like he had decorah
Zakaria did I say Abraham ya feel like
yeah although Sarah laughed and she
didn't believe I know I was going to
have Isaac I know and it's like I guess
we want to encourage those of you who
are watching today to say hold on hold
on to the promise and if if you have
been praying keep serving keep believing
yeah like keep serving keep believing
that God really does hear your prayers
yeah and I just love the like how
Gabriel doesn't turn his back at that
point and take away take away the
promise cuz the promise has been given
yes you know I just want to share
something with you I haven't even talked
to you about this yet done but you know
it it's it's in my heart that you don't
I i genuinely want to one day get
married and have a family I would I
would love that that desires on my heart
and I've always given that to God just
believing that if that's as well then
that's what will happen if not I'm still
going to serve him and love him and do
whatever he wants me to do mm-hmm I was
out with some friends and and we were
meeting some other women we were doing
like a little Bible study thing in
preparation for a conference which I
hope to tell you about in the near
future anyways and there were some older
ladies there and they were talking about
having kids and and then one of the
mention wow you know best advice is to
get married pretty young and have them
when you're young and I
laughed and I said well that ship sailed
and I laughed I scoffed in my heart and
if everybody laughed right because I can
I laugh about it and they left the room
and I was like have I closed the door on
that hmm have I said okay God well I
guess you're not going to do that so
fine even though I have faithfully
committed that to him right and but at
the same time in that the undertone of
that comment was unbelief instead of
saying if God wants to do that great
then I'm ready for that if he doesn't do
it great I'm ready for that he can he
can sustain me either way and you ready
for his glory but in that was a WoW last
not gonna happen you know yeah and it
was unbelief in my heart yeah that God
might still do that which is very
interesting because like you said it was
a heart thing at that point like you
knew he was a hard thing even though I
was making a joke yeah because it's
making light of it yeah and that's
exactly what happened with Abraham how
how I can rescue why do i want i can
same kind of thing you know no people
having babies but how kai know what you
say is true like the angel has just
appeared to him and said your wife who
is old is going to have a child than
he's like uh huh like is this a
practical joke like yeah look at us okay
so speaking of like getting glimpses of
promises this is just another side track
when I was a kid I really wanted a cat I
wanted to catch so bad no I'm like why
why did I want that I wanted to cat so
bad so for Christmas one year my parents
gave me a cat carrier and a book on how
to take care of cats um I hope it up I
was like is this a cruel joke like the
things you're you're giving me but no
cat and they laugh right because I knew
they were going to take me up the next
week to get this cat but I i saw the
glimpse of the promise but it wasn't
fair and so I was upset
and and that can be tough to the glimpse
of the promise like and I wondered you
know we don't know what Zechariah and
Elizabeth story is so we don't know if
there had been miscarriages or she had
just been barren and so you know here
sakurai you know who wouldn't stand
there and go really how do I know like
how do i know that this time it's going
to be it how do I know and was it out of
maybe a love for his wife like I'm
wanting to protect her to saving hurt
yeah so it is very interesting and I
almost feel like we should push pause
there and wait till next week to talk
about the other side of the attitude so
in preparation for next week you can
start reading Luke 126 245 yeah and just
start reading that and you can I know
you're getting a preview of next week
how can this even be but start thinking
about in your own life have have you
often felt or have you felt that you've
missed that on our promise or God is
taking a long time to fulfill a promise
like where is your belief at because it
says because you did not believe what I
told you right so we encourage you over
the next week to serve ask the Lord what
am I not believing or where have I lost
faith or what am I struggling with with
your promises um and just begin to ask
the Lord those things and and trust I
trust he's actually going to start
speaking to you and I believe that
through you're just being honest with
the Lord to say Lord I'm struggling with
believing your promises I know he's
going to come and meet with you because
he's he's promised in his word call to
me and I will answer you and tell you
great and unsearchable things you did
not know that's from The Book of
Jeremiah 33 3 I believe but this call to
me yeah so start asking him about Lord
what about this yeah and it's okay to
confess
you have difficulty believing something
and I mean look at mark 10 excuse me and
mark chapter 10 Jesus is saying that
that nothing is impossible with God yes
and there's another story where the man
brings his child to Jesus to be healed
and Jesus says this is possible if you
believe right yeah I'm just paraphrasing
sorry and the man says I believe help me
with my own guess and Jesus still heal
his son yeah says if you have faith as
small as a mustard seed you will see
mountains move yes so let's pray let's
pray Lord God you have you have promised
as Kerry said that we had the faith of a
mustard seed mountains can move and so
father in the midst of our unbelief I
ask that you would help us to believe in
the midst of our feeling like we have
been missing out on the promises of God
or you haven't been coming through I a
slur God in your name that you would
just break through the doubt and the
hurt and the unbelief and you would help
us to believe again and Lord as as your
angel appeared to Zechariah Lord that we
would believe that you would have
appeared to us and speak to us what you
have for us and so father we thank you
for the truth of your word that you are
faithful and you are a promise keeper
I asked you to help us to believe in
your name I pray amen thanks for tuning
in this week and we sure hope that
you'll join us for another great
discussion next week until then have a
wonderful day have a wonderful week
cheers and jeers they're scary
