it's Tuesday October the fourth 2011
it's seven o'clock at night you know
what that means it's time to kick off
season five of category five technology
TV i'm your host Robbie ferguson i'm
joined by hilary rumble tonight as we
show you how to install Lubuntu 11.2
category five dot TV welcome to category
five technology TV what you're about to
experience is a free worldwide
interactive broadcast from ontario
canada we broadcast live every tuesday
at seven p.m. eastern time get your
questions in join the community chat
room at triple w category 5 TV or email
us at live at category 5 TV and now
let's begin here's your host Ravi
Ferguson welcome to episode number 211
category 5 technology TV hey hello well
yeah how are you doing I'm fabulous are
you excellent excellent mm-hm do I look
like I've like had tons and tons of rest
and not having to do anything to get
ready for tonight well it's kind of big
deal Robbie Wow
the stuff that I it's been a fun day
seriously I mean it started Saturday
yeah saturday was an amazing day I got
up early I can't I got dressed I came
downstairs turned on the kid and there
were 75 people waiting for me to do so
and greeted me there in the chat room
and and watched for nine hours the line
hours the longest broadcast that we've
ever done Gary 580 wild for nine
straight hours I not only built the new
server well let's back up I actually i
unboxed the pieces to the new server
would have to say that because we all
love a good unboxing video true say
unboxing video take the digital anyways
so I played on the unboxing thing
because that seems to be something on
YouTube that the guys who know texts
seem to do so i unbox the stuff i built
the server but during the process this
is what was amazing if you were there
you know david is boom was there gadwal
joined us for part of it the thing was
is that i didn't just build the server I
didn't just say oh here I go I'm gonna
put it together you can watch actually
spent all nine hours teaching how to
build this computer double whammy yeah
so for the whole time people were asking
their questions i was actually verbally
walking everybody through exactly what
was happening why i'm doing the things
i'm doing and how decisions are made and
how you how you actually go about
putting together the server so it was
really it was really cool yeah totally
it was a quite an experience and i think
for the viewers as well now that said it
was nine hours long I am NOT going to
release the DVD set or anything like
that come on what I do hope to do we're
gonna actually be taking those the
little individual things like you know
we're okay we're going to open up the
cpu and install that so that will become
one video might be 20 minutes okay yeah
yes that's gonna be really cool so I
know we're gonna we're gonna
add that to to our website over sometime
so well that's terrific little features
like that definitely are helpful for
people who are trying to do this at home
and so that's cool that the community
was able to join in ways to you and you
having to do that but also that now we
have this kind of instructional material
we can help people out when they do
their own oh yeah very cool okay tonight
we're going to be learning to install
Lubuntu 11 point 10 some people in the
chat room I saw you there what is this
some kind of joke its unity I think it's
it's only it's only fitting that for our
season premiere of season five that we
kick things off with the current version
of ubuntu indeed i agree make sense and
then we'll see where it goes from there
you know in the in the next 12 months
we're gonna see where canonical takes
this thing but but tonight that's what
we're gonna do alright sounds good to me
what do you got coming up in the news
for us o people just you wait cuz coming
up in the newsroom a revolutionary solar
power tablet has succeeded in testing
and is powered by Linux HTC is looking
into a potential exploit that can reveal
a user's private information to app
developers creepy canonical bridges the
gap in the cloud with its release of
ubuntu one for windows oh you love could
that mean stick around you'll find out a
newly discovered mac OS x lion exploit
allows a user to view or change your
admin password hmm a citywide
interconnected operating system could
run entire cities and last but not least
apple new iphone has been revealed and
it's not the iphone 5 so stick around
because these stories are coming up in
under 30 minutes and let me tell you
there's a lot going on in the world of
technology no today was a mere day
there's a lot of stuff like what does
this all mean there's a lot of enjoyment
I kind of laughed about
the media coverage of apples
presentation today because it's like ok
they're gonna present whatever the new
device is but it was like if you were
watching Google News it was like okay I
just want to know okay is it going to be
the iphone 5 and instead of getting any
relevant news you're getting actual news
stories posted by legitimate news
sources they're coming up and it's like
tim is standing on the stage ms we click
on and it's like the whole story is like
Tim who has taken over for steve is now
standing on the stage possibly about to
present the iphone 5 right it's all
speculative and it's recycled material
about how steve has stepped down and and
so now Tim is there and and bloodlines
like that's all the news was for like
the whole day until finally they said
okay here's what actually happened but
it was all it was like a whole day of
speculative at is building yeah for well
they must have a lot of fan boys who are
also journalists possible that's quite
possible what are you doing that do you
do you dress up at Halloween oh yeah a
little costumes what's um I don't know
what it's not Halloween let's be on a 10
yeah yeah the thing is I've been
enjoying since since I've got young kids
and especially you know my daughter six
my son is four and this year I've got
him the coolest Starfleet uniform so
he's got like the whole Kirk get up oh
that's so cute yeah so and and you can
get costumes actually we have a costume
store mm where proceeds go towards the
show it's cat five dot TV / costumes and
you can actually go there pull it up on
your computer right now cat5 TV /
costumes do it very good selection
that's where we get our costumes from
and that prices are good they'll ship
anywhere so check it out yeah especially
with Halloween up-and-coming like it's
already October people it's in Halloween
before you know it
christmas and the I I a so I mean and
then you ask yourself well did Robbie
remember to order his costume did he
here's a little sneak peek maybe if you
can handle it I don't know oh just say
I'm there maybe we'll do an unboxing
video not like Oh dear me mmm well I can
hardly wait yeah gonna be sweet okay so
we're going to start our boon to install
in just a couple of minutes first we're
going to now with season five we are ad
supported and so we'll just have a quick
commercial break and we'll be back right
after this we're hitting the road or the
dusty trails liquid image Canada
captures the action with a true point of
view HD video camera directly into a
high quality MX goggle it records every
bit of the excitement exactly how you
see it if my octane isn't your thing
take a relaxing underwater adventure and
capture it forever in high definition
video with a high quality underwater
camera mask from liquid image Canada
perfect for the enthusiast snorkeler or
the deep sea diver check out the entire
line of camera masks for every sport
liquid image canada.com that's the
amazing thing chatroom about making that
commercial was that was actually me
snorkeling in the tropics they flew me
everywhere pretty sweet gig totally
untrue totally untrue but we'd be more
than you're going to go anywhere but but
there were some clips there of you on
the four-wheeler yeah how's the
experience winning we're working I don't
I don't mean to talk about about a
commercial but when you were using the
amex camera mask we never actually got
to talk about it because you weren't
lying in the schedule that that's true
that is true it was fine like I I really
enjoyed using it and it works like i
said in the knee little segment we
produce it worked the goggles feel like
normal goggles and um the camera element
races we they felt they felt fabulous
like i really am you know i could
appreciate them for goggles and then
also at the camera unit itself like
thought it was really impressive to me
the sound like is amazing what
such a little device seemingly tiny
device could produce I was surprised
when I started doing some research and
found that the just like the regular
goggles the MX goggles are like the same
price and you've got like an HD video
camera yeah so liquidy much Canada com I
use the snorkeling mask yeah I found
that since I've been doing that it's
it's like become a hobby it's actually
you know I'm looking for things that are
completely unrelated to computers to do
that's me you need that right you need
to I need to have hobbies that aren't
know by carpal tunnel syndrome people I
want to swim so but still incorporating
your love for technology it is there you
go and it's amazing how people that the
beach actually notice the camera
apparatus yeah yeah oh dude is that a
camera we yes dude that is indeed acade
HD my friend mmm yeah I'm filming you
right now man oh man anyways we'll have
to show you the clips yeah how do we get
onto that I'm serious I think it's just
such a cool device it is really cool
great stuff for real yeah okay we need
to actually I know we've got a couple of
questions that have come in I want to
get started on this installation of
ubuntu linux let's do it so you know
just just because it is going to take
some time tonight so i'm booting up the
live CD this is gonna be available next
thursday so thursday of next week the
13th you're gonna be able to download
ubuntu 11.2 well I guess I haven't you
know because unity and people in the
chat room are agreeing with me unity is
Ubuntu or Canonical's new replacement
for the traditional gnome desktop and I
don't know my thought all along was that
this is great for touchscreens is great
for tablets but not so good for mouse
operation and I still kind of hold to
that but I got to say with 11 point 10
they're really it's it's getting better
it's it's the 11-point 04 this is
April's release of a bluetooth mm-hmm
I'm sorry the unity was unbearable it
was a terrible it was crashing on me and
dying and stuff and laughing at me and I
was just like you call this unity that's
disunity that's disunity and disharmony
in my container I'd say yes I've booted
from this live CD and you'll notice here
if you've never voted a live CD first of
all you should understand ubuntu is a
free operating system being download
from ubuntu com so you can get that you
can download it to your Windows computer
and you can try it out you can install
it you can replace windows you can do a
boot whatever you want to do it's it's a
another option to run on your computer
it's linux but what's cool about it the
reason I bring that up if you have
Windows you can try lubuntu you can test
it with no further commitment you try it
it will run on your computer you can
surf the web you can do your thing check
it out see what you think of the
graphics and the way that it operates
and then reboot your computer eject the
CD and your computer's right back to
where it was because what happens is it
loads it off the CD loads a straight
under Ram so you don't have to actually
install it you don't have to overwrite
anything on your computer however
tonight we are going to because we know
that we want to install Lubuntu alright
so if you don't want to you can go try
ubuntu just if you're curious you just
want to try it that's fine too okay
first screen we get I got at least four
point four gigabytes of available hard
drive space yes this is 1983 okay we're
connected to the Internet yes this is
also 1996 do we want to download updates
while we're installing we could say yes
to that we probably would tonight I'm
not going to just because we're live on
the air we don't want it that's gonna
take a lot more time okay do we want to
install third-party software so that we
can play mp3 files definitely because
we're all about the mp3 here mm-hmm yes
we can say no to iTunes and go with mp3
instead actually I use mp3s on my
pogoplug this so that i can stream music
to my ipod touch or iphone or android
device or blackberry or whatever right
so you're able to use mp3s I don't like
how itunes converts everything over and
you lose you know it and it's that's
just a mess I'll just drag files over so
I drag them to my pogoplug and I listen
to them huh that's right one thought
okay next up I want to erase the disk
this is the destructive way continue
where do you want to put it well choose
your hard drive there it is okay and
install that was it wow that question we
have pretty much notice here's here's
something i'll just point out to you
installing it's gonna go and here's a
novel idea what your self windows XP how
about an installer that includes
multitasking abilities again this is
1996 right so we can do that kind of
cool stuff so that while you know so if
i walk away when it's sitting there
asking me if I'm from tijuana it will
still continue to go through the
installer I don't have to I don't have
to worry oh no I walked away and it just
SAT there for four hours I thought it'll
be done by now no cuz he a boon to it's
waiting for me to tell where I'm from
but it's still copying files it doesn't
wait for me clever why would it wait for
me it's it doesn't kit you know I can do
two things at once well it's little baby
hello so highlight rainy river this is a
sunny day Toronto because that's my
local timezone okay so select Toronto
Ontario Canada you can select your city
try your own city name I don't think
Barry is going to be in there so I used
to run same time zone
you against he still copying files hmm t
seagull nice to see you join us in the
chat room Scorpio 55 hey hey gamoto John
okay again it's still moving along even
though it's waiting for me to answer a
question type a keyboard I'm going to
use the default cuz I'm not Dvorak just
yet not quite you're getting there
though your name well I'll go with
Dvorak because one day I want to be able
to type Dvorak there you go name of your
computer a computer hey I'll pick a
username I'll go with that sure why not
password is going to be test 123 I say
that out loud so that we all remember it
good call definitely now here's a
question for you notice again it's still
going it's not waiting for me even
though I'm being taking my time do I
want to log in automatically or do I
want to require a password to login
here's the scenario I've got a laptop
computer mm-hmm I leave it somewhere
somebody turns it on do I want it to go
right to my files on my desktop or do I
want to ask for a password people
lurking on our things right good job
high five um fail high five yeah that
was kind of sorry there's enough because
we're looking eyes like I can feel it's
like depth-perception problem you're
freaked myself out ya hear ya on my
phone yeah look aunt myself okay sorry
continue but then there's the other
scenario you got your computer at home
yeah you want to be like okay whatever
me it's like it's me and my wife using
the computer and that's our computer do
we want to have to enter the password
every time the kids turn on the computer
there's there's two sides of it it
depends on what you're using the
computer for so that's a decision you
have to make do you want people to be
able to turn on your computer and have
access to it convenient for home don't
do it on a laptop no
not okay for this particular case i'm
going to say log in automatically oh
look it's not really waiting for me it's
ready when I am okay that's log in
automatically continue I'm not gonna
encrypt encryption is another way to
protect your data okay now it's getting
ready to install the system here we go
it's got everything it needs from me
it's got some nice little slides look at
that you can flip through learn a little
bit about your new ubuntu operating
system how cool is that okay so we're
just gonna let that go alright and we'll
jump into some viewer questions if you
have some questions for us it's live at
category 5 TV and of course you can also
join us in the chat room category 5 TV
we'd love to see you there say hi meet
the community huh and what a fabulous
community it is FYI well I'm using lots
of they are so cool the front know if
this really works in the sentence
they're so cool that they SAT watching
me for nine straight hours build a
server I don't know what to say to that
I think I started the day with if you
are still here at the end of this you
are as much of a geek as i am and a true
blue fan yes so thank you for supporting
Stu those who who did it made it nicer
for me to know I had some friends ya
know for sure totally see that's what
we're talking about true blue community
true blue fans thank you pressing onward
we have an email from timco hey timko
then he writes hello category 5 crew
I've been a long time fan I watch you on
mural and once in a while while I use
itunes love the show keep up the good
work my question is I am the go to tech
person in my family my brother has a
windows XP laptop and is giving a 0 and
it is giving a blue screen on Buddha oh
that's that's to be expected yeah that's
that's normal
yeah okay sorry so we'll move along oh
I'm so bad I know okay it's okay yes
your comment this is why we're promoting
Linux haha ok so I've tried the rescue
route with his XP CD and it just
recycles back to the hard riester oh I
tried my live that's a horse of a
different color so well okay i'll let
you continue okay there's more yeah
hopefully hmm i tried me USB or live USB
11.04 to try and repartition but here is
the thing we um what to say we got a USB
2.5 HD d oh look a nice drive yeah yeah
yeahs to copy his picture and documents
to save to my USB live 11-point 04 after
that I tried to partition and the jeep
partition gparted froze gparted apart ed
okay wouldn't even let me see any
partition i could see the hard drive in
my Nautilus and copied the files to USB
hard drive so this oh is this a rootkit
problem or a bad hard drive or anything
like that if I rootkit any direction oh
if it's a rootkit problem do you have
any ideas on how to fix this um thank
you in advance from timco yeah it's the
question timco okay you got a computer
it's got windows XP it's blue screening
that seems normal but in this case
you've rebooted with ya tair CD and to
reinstall and it won't even do that so
I'm sensing some some bad hardware here
my friend hmm now the question is do we
get to the point where your repair CD
starts going through the repair process
and then crashes out or do we not even
get there if we don't even get there
first thing I'm going to check is RAM
your memory go get the memtest tool find
out if your RAM is bad you can use in a
boon to boot CD as a matter of fact it
has memtest right on the menu try it out
if it gets there and it crashes sounds
like it could be a hard drive failure
and
hmm if that's the case here's here's the
problem I don't want to tell you the
chat room saying you know you could try
spin right definitely but see here dad
will the problem is is that spin right
is going to work that hard drive like
crazy and in this case if it's failing
hard drive it could very well under
heavy load of spinrite become a failed
hard drive all of a sudden your dad is
gone yeah so what I would say is try to
get to the determination of okay is this
Ram memtest is pretty safe because it's
not going to do really anything with
your hard drive while that's happening
your hard drives going to be powered on
so it's going to be spinning but at
least there's not a whole lot of sector
reads and writes going on okay spinrite
is going to be working it like to death
quite possibly I would say if you get to
that point determine if the data on the
drive is critical if it is I don't know
i I really don't want to tell you to
start using you know if your experience
this experience in this kind of problem
it could fail at any time and you can
lose everything okay so that's when data
recovery labs are really the safest bet
but do you keep trying and then take it
to a data recovery lab could end up
costing you more money right right now
you drive works but not well is crashing
is causing problems a data recovery lab
can hook it up best-case scenario like
500 bucks they'll be able to get a spun
up because it's still working right use
their special equipment drive imagers
and things get the data off onto a safe
drive right if however you you try and
it crashes now you're in a worse state
right so now yeah data recovery lab can
still get your data most likely but is
it still 500 bucks hmm no so tough tough
call yeah I knew I suspect ram or hard
drive and if it's hard drive I want to
know if you've got data on there that
that is critical and if it is and you've
already tried everything you know to do
if it sounds like you know what you're
doing you're using the live CD you're
trying to get the data off if
through that process I would suggest
you're using gparted okay can you can
you instead format that drive on another
system the the external the three-point
the 2.5 inch that you bought can you
format that on another system into a
compatible format and then take it over
to that computer boot from the live CD
mount your hard drives copy and paste
and hope beyond hope that doesn't crash
during that process only grab the stuff
you need don't grab the OS files don't
grab c colon slash windows just grab
documents and settings / username /
desktop / my documents / my pictures
whatever is critical the less copying
you do the less likely are the hard
drives going to crash while you're doing
the process makes sense good luck I
really don't want you to lose anything
keep a good backup preventive measures
you know people in the chat room there G
seagulls and data recovery can be very
expensive that's true you're looking you
know bare minimum is going to be 500
bucks for data recovery going up to
3,500 4,000 5,000 even in worst-case
scenarios raid arrays are even going to
be worse right this is per dr so
preventive measures that's what you want
to have in place you know I know that
this is not an option at this point with
this particular drive but in future and
you know I say to people all the time
you always have a backup she's always
yeah it's it's you got to have and not a
backup as in well I save everything on
an external hard drive because that's
not a backup at all you don't have two
copies anywhere if that external hard
drive got stolen where's your files yeah
you want to have files in to three
different places securely but that way
if something happens to one of those
drives you're still protected mm-hmm
okay sure sure thank you so much for the
question this is category 5 technology
TV you find us online triple w category
five dot TV welcome to season five hallo
we're here
oh pretty pretty green how did we get
here well a lot of blood sweat and tears
mm-hmm a lot of hard work a lot of great
fans but we're here that's true that's
all about the fans and we're only
getting better every time every time we
get awesomer and awesomer our grammar
gets gooder and gooder our grammar may
not what everything else is I was
looking at the chat room there and I
think you know I don't know if Chris
Reich is here to hear me say this stuff
and then I see oh he's there he's there
he's totally there already hey Chris
just not saying much yeah hello Oh
compliments coming to the chatter
they're just full of flattery tonight
for the lady no Robbie looks like a
bowling ball but you know a shiny
bowling ball I think that's what they
were saying oh true friends true blue I
tell you don't know yes thank you d man
nice bald head yes brilliant well hey it
can you believe it's half past the hour
Oh Martha how do we get to season five
how do we get halfway through the show
already time is espousing and by I tell
you yes there should be a song about
that there really should maybe we'll all
right one let's do that ho hum hmm lets
me just get my news you sure you dun
Dada da for the category 5 30 newsroom
an android-based I slate tablet
prototype developed in part by Rice
University have completed year-long
trials in Indian public schools
and a fifty-dollar solar powered version
with a new power sipping processor is
set to enter full production for a
mid-2012 relief meanwhile the
much-delayed $35 indian tablet aimed at
indian students will launch tomorrow the
indian government now claims the isolate
was developed by the Institute for
sustainable and applied info dynamics a
joint program of rice university in
houston texas and nan yang technological
university in singapore the group is now
preparing for a full-scale scale
production of the tablet now that year
long series of tests have shown that the
device is effective learning tool for
Indian children according to Rice
University according to a rice
university spokesperson the ice late
prototype runs Android the final solar
powered version do in mid-2012 require a
new OS at the spokesperson an email to
Linux devices presumably the replacement
OS will also be based on linux but will
be tailored for a new processor being
developed specifically for the final
tablet this revolutionary new low-power
computer chip as the rice announcement
describes it will cut the devices power
requirements in half so it can run on
small solar panels similar to those
found on handheld calculators amazing
yeah pretty cool the eventual goal for
is for a second generation tablet to be
ah o is a power consumption of about 3
watts it sounds kind of cool HTC is
investigating claims the security flied
several of its mobile phones means
personal information is being exposed an
android police blog says a file
containing a user's GPS location and
email addresses can easily be accessed
once internet permissions are granted
several models are said to be affected
including the evo 3d evo 4g thunderbolt
and potentially the sensation range
Systems Administrator Trevor at cart
produced proof-of-concept app designed
to show off the vulnerability by simply
asking a user's permissions
access the internet a request popular
with games apps seeking to post scores
online for instance the app was able to
access a file which contains a list of
user accounts including email addresses
a recent log of GPS locations phone
numbers taken from recent call logs and
SMS data including recent numbers and
encoded messages hmmm that's really
scary yeah HTC said is looking into the
claims as quickly as possible and
canonical has announced the release of
an official windows client for a boon to
one services online ten months after it
first entered public beta lubuntu one
team says that the new client is a major
milestone noting that it will help
bhuntu ones multi-platform strategy we
believe in giving all users regardless
of platform access to one of the best
personal cloud services available added
the developers lubuntu one is managed is
a managed file storage and
synchronization service targeted at
users of the Ubuntu Linux distribution
and is included by default with the OS
with the service running oh sorry with
the service users can synchronize files
between their a boon to systems and
their mobile devices running Android 2.1
or later and now their windows systems
as well the cloud storage platform
celebrated reaching more than 1 million
one of them not that's a lot of mouthful
and that's a lot of people 1 million
users earlier this year and a new post
over security blog defense-in-depth
reveals a serious new security flaw
found with an OS X Lion that could
enable anyone with access to your
machine to view and change your
administrator password according to the
report even non-root users in lyon have
the ability to view password hash data
and could then use a very simple python
script to reveal that users password
hmmm unfortunately the situation only
gets worse as lion doesn't require a
password in order to change the password
of the current users
meaning that typing a simple terminal
command would allow you to change a
user's administrative password to
something else the security exploit only
can be used if user has direct access to
your Mac and has a directory service
access to save link automatic login
enabling sleep and screensaver passwords
and disabling guest accounts are all
recommended to help prevent this type of
security compromise I gotta say that is
one embarrassed looking lion he's so
embarrassed hmm and so each would be
cities could soon be looking after their
citizens by themselves thanks to an
operating system designed for the
metropolis the urban OS works just like
a PC operating system but keeps
buildings traffic and services running
smoothly this software takes in data
from sensors dotted around the city to
keep an eye on what's happening in the
event of a fire the urban OS might
manage traffic light so that fire
engines can reach the blaze more quickly
and swiftly the idea for the urban OS to
gather data from sensors buried in
buildings and many other places to keep
an eye on what's happening in an urban
area a testbed for the urban OS is
currently being built in Portugal for
its work in developing smart cities
living plan IT was selected as one of
the World Economic Forum's technology
pioneers of 2012 and the new iphone from
apple has been revealed and too many
fanboys dismay it's not the iphone 5
instead Apple revealed the new iphone 4s
this afternoon a faster version of the
iphone 4 with a better camera at the
stalwart is among the disappointed
crowds on Twitter writing if you're not
disappointed by the iphone 4s well then
you're just not enough of a driver
dreamer my friend um the markets also
confirmed their disappointment since
apple shares went down three-point-six
percent almost immediately following the
announcement apple.com Robbie sorry hmm
apple.com has already began boasting the
new devices dual-core a5
chip which is the same chip in the ipad
to the camera and objects have been
upgraded to 8 megapixels and has been
built for iOS 5 while the hardware isn't
all that exciting in fact it's a little
disappointing the new Siri software of
the iphone 4s is quite impressive you'll
be able to ask your iphone things like
what time is it what's the weather
forecast where's the nearest to morton's
and apparently your iphone 4s will
respond with requested information Alice
Starship Enterprise that's great for for
guys who don't have a wife you know cuz
the same stuff I ask me well what time
is it 430 there you go what's it like
outside now you don't need that you have
a device thing you have your little
friend that we go Starship Enterprise
anyways this cool iphone 4s will be
available from the apple store on
october fourteenth so there you have it
people you can get these full stories
online at category 5 TV / newsroom the
category 5 TV news room is researched by
roy w Nash with contributions from our
fabulously funny and friendly community
of viewers if you have a new store you
thanks for thee of honor mention send us
an email it's pretty easy newsroom at
category 5 TV for the category five tiny
newsroom I'm Hillary Rumble cheers
Hillary awesome thank you the news
tonight is brought to you by pogoplug
cat five dot TV / pogoplug and planet
calypso cat five dot TV / calypso check
them out check it people yeah let's take
a look at our boon to install how we
doing things are moving along let's get
it what is this hark well not just dense
yes what is this I didn't mean what is
that installation complete restart now
sure let's do that okay I agree let's do
that just what it tells us to do so we
better listen better do what it won't
who tells us huh this is category 5
technology TV thanks for joining us
tonight category five
TV i'm your host Robbie Ferguson I'm
Hillary Rumble hi yeah we're on twitter
oh yeah i'm at Robbie Ferguson it's very
hard to remember my name is Robbie
Ferguson I am at Robbie ferguson nine
and Hillary Rumble that's who I am so
Tennessee down there we are at category
5 TV we are hashtag is cat five yes sir
baby if you like to say hi to us on
Twitter go follow us there we would love
to have you follow us tonight tweet us
retweet every tweet that we ever tweet
gotta tweet that tweet tweet tweet elite
elite oh yeah that system is just
rebooting yeah well I have another
question should we tackle that while
this is getting up and going you think
yeah well that's just booting up but
yeah let's if you've got another viewer
question let's say because we love the
viewers we do and we want to answer your
question we encourage you to get your
questions in live at category 5 TV hey
before we do that reminds me of things
that I would love viewers to send in Oh
postcards your postcards oh I want a
postcard of your hometown or your
country yeah yeah totally right on the
back of it you know hi Hillary I love
mail like snail mail for real I love
technology and eyelash don't get it
anymore but that's what saying yeah
people don't do that seemingly archaic
but it's beautiful to have a handwritten
tangible thing from someone you know why
it seems archaic because there is about
a hundred people right now that are
saying but I sent a postcard like five
weeks ago you didn't get it yet no we
didn't get it yet no no cuz it takes it
takes forever takes that long but it's
still beautiful and yes you could just
send me an email God well however it's
not the same though it's not the same I
can't see your lovely handwriting I
can't see whatever it's just not the
same yeah so yeah totally good when you
get an email from grandpa this is not
the same it's all cats this is got
terrible
terrible terrible punctuation yeah
anyway our address is at the bottom of
every page on category five dot TV hey
we pay for the p.o box we'd love to use
it there's something other than bills
can to syrah notifications so you know
do us that favor and send some to us
just to say hi and we can feature your
hometown on the world wide web we will
absolutely bring up your card and read
it on on the air I will throw viewer
points if that's what it takes yeah
definitely here fine that'd be feet hmm
all right back to business business as
per usual around here we don't have fun
lead you know you know how to absolutely
not I am the worst person to work with
well he said it I did not okay moving on
I'm just kidding he's great John
Zimmerman thank you free email we are
gonna try to answer your question I am
really really close to installing
pogoplug on Linux but i always get this
error which reads error failed to
connect to server and then all of these
numbers all things I won't read aloud
application gracefully exiting any
suggestions on how to fix this well at
least it's a graceful exit and it's not
like a really angry one li Xing yeah
angrily exiting case you imagine any
funny really funny this application is
very angry right now okay that error for
pogoplug error failed to connect to
server I've seen that and when have I
seen that as when I've entered an
incorrect password like a tight bum row
okay so i would check your password just
verify that yeah i've typed it right
check your syntax at the cat the line
perhaps you know if you'd like to go so
far email me the line that you're typing
just kind of like turn your password
into like asterisks or something for me
it's just for person because I don't
need your password right but just so
that I can look at your syntax and make
sure oh yeah you're doing it right other
thing you might try in saying that it
could be your past / me your password
you might need to escape some
characters if you have any weird
characters in your password that are
non-alphanumeric you might need to put a
slash before that character or put ago
put it in apostrophes or quotes Lucas
cool na ready good luck let us know okay
yeah give it a whirl and yeah she sent
us an email cheers thanks for the
question oh look at my screen hark yeah
we are up and running ubuntu hmm looks
that layout well this is unity love it
or hate it hmm it has massive icons and
that's visually nice but you can see
what I'm saying it's it's very much
designed for a touchscreen yeah my house
that's interesting so it's it's kind of
weird for me too to operate that as a
mouse yeah cuz you're like you just want
it you don't it yeah exactly but I don't
have touchscreen so what do i do I have
to use a mouse hmm feature wise ubuntu
11.10 know based on three point 0 point
for good gnome 3.1 point 92 they're
actually working towards implementing
3.2 of no now you notice though it's not
the gnome desktop its unity because no
Maxie works in the background unity is
on top of it so what you see is unity
you don't actually get to use gnome as a
desktop here other than that beyond that
it's got improved support for 32-bit
software on a 64-bit platform and it
does you know visually here's what I
noticed it's looking really quite good
it's looking a lot more refined okay so
let's take a quick look at some of the
improvements Ubuntu Software Center this
is kind of ubuntu installer for getting
applications if you've never used linux
this
very cool it really is pay attention
well they've they have made it it makes
sense it's intuitive I gotta hand it to
canonical that I think they're getting
it right with Software Center I think I
clicked on it but I don't know because I
can't touch the screen to make it go but
it looks like it's going now yeah there
we go
ubuntu software center so it takes a
little bit of getting used to the
different interface because you don't
have an applications menu / say you have
this kind of pop up guy notice the cool
effects that actually blurs the windows
behind which is a nice subtle touch but
looks good if you want for example an
application let's say I don't know
screen saver so type in screen yeah see
and it doesn't it doesn't even give me
so you have to kind of know the
application name if i type Firefox for
sure it's going to give me Firefox right
so in the menu I don't know again I
think from a non mouse perspective it's
gonna work better internet apps for
example so it's categorized it's coming
together it like you see that it looks
pretty good okay let's go back to our
software Center and what I do like about
this is that it's it's got the icons it
looks more like this is an application
this isn't a list of a text list of
files that I can check off what I want
I've been finding you know I love
synaptic package manager but I find it's
getting a little cluttered it's getting
so that you know you you just see a list
of names and if again if you don't know
the name of the software and you don't
feel like spending hours just going
through this of text this gives you a
much easier interface as far as that
goes it starts out with that what they
call their star apps these are the the
ones that have been voted the top so you
see awesome tools like Stellarium which
lets you look up at the stars and see
the positioning of the stars from your
computer filezilla the the ftp client
k3b it's a burning application for your
cds so there are some great software
tools right off the bat if we click on
games over here for example i'll just
zoom in a little bit so you can see a
little better so i click on games
and now you see here's the top rated
games okay so these are the ones that
people said oh these are our favorites
frozen bubble for example and then
you've got the categories up here you've
got arcade board games card games etc
let's click on card games so yeah you've
got your free cell your solitaire is
your whatever mahjong good stuff so now
what's neat about it let's say I'm
interested in that okay xmas on but i'm
not sure what its what it's going to
look like so i go more info here's we're
moving to software center stands out
okay it gives you a great description of
the application but over here it's
actually loading a full hope that was me
just clicking by accident so it's loaded
the information about the application
here on the top left it's loaded a great
picture good size picture of the
application with zoom functionality so
you can see the actual program and then
you scroll down tells you a little bit
about the app itself and then reviews
from users of this application well
that's cool now you notice this guy
keeps popping out and that gets annoying
to me this thing over here hmm maybe
it's because I'm using the zoom I don't
know but so there are some things about
you really do annoy me but I think
they're really start it's getting
refined and that's the word that comes
to mind when I see it it's looking good
it's functioning better hmm this is
remember Ubuntu isn't out until next
Thursday so they still have time that
there could still even improvements upon
it I'm seeing here today and it's
working really quite well as far as
interface goes if you're used to the
standard kind of start menu of Windows
or the applications menu of Linux the
the real difference here is that you've
got this thing that pops out from the
side and it's sorted by the type of
application in some instances has got
your most used app
patience here and then we can type in
again if you if you kind of know your
way around but down at the bottom here
here's a tool that you're going to find
useful if you're like me and you're not
used to this kind of interface just
click on that little guy there and now
it's going to actually give me a little
bit it's not the same as the original
menu system but at least now I can click
on office for example right and now I've
got my libra office right things like
that and also it's made some suggestions
for me based on my searches and things
and says hey you might like this so you
can actually click there to install it
and remember that with linux and with
this system with the tool that i showed
you a little bit just a moment ago
lubuntu Software Center you don't need
any disks for these things you don't
need to pay for a lot of the stuff most
of it and I mean most of it i mean like
huge percentage of it is in fact
absolutely free you just click on it and
say i want that and you have it it's
downloaded to your computer through your
high speed internet you get it you can
use it you can even synchronize it
between computers at home and at work
and your laptop so if I for example if
I've got some really great games of the
kids like on my computer at home hmm and
they want to play it on their mums
computer I can synchronize those two
cache software centers and both
computers will have the same games
automatically wow that's so cool yeah
there's some really great features i
think that that they're bringing out
that's it again i still think that it's
very much designed for the touch screen
and you can see that from the big
buttons and the way that it's the way
that it actually functions mm-hmm you
know like this kind of springiness to it
and the way that it works it doesn't
make sense to me as a mouse user but it
is working very well it's very clean it
looks very nice
yes yeah it's coming together so I don't
let us know what you think I'd be
interested to know what your thoughts
are about unity and and the way that
ubuntu has gone this route you see even
windows 8 is going that same route of
it's all for touchscreen yeah so is this
the way that computers are going to go
are is this a hint from the the the big
linux and the big windows player you
know microsoft and canonical are both
developing for touchscreen and kind of
leaving the mouse behind so are we going
to see that okay well they're doing it
for a reason we're going to start seeing
a real push on touchscreen monitors for
for PCs for even just tablets yeah yeah
that's what I'm thinking we're starting
to see and I think it's I think it's a
neat time but it's it's different
because any time there's big change in
technology like this kind of interface
it's like okay are we gonna continue to
keep going with the look of Windows 95
which was based on a very old Mac OS I
guess not even mac OS it was like Apple
platform you know what I mean it's like
so it is about time that that the
desktop was stepped up and changed I had
a feeling that it was going to be compiz
fusion that was going to do this with
all the cool effects hmm but I think
canonical is saying no it's we tried it
for a while we're going a different
route and this is what they've chosen to
do so check it out its ubuntu ubuntu com
you be you and tu calm and you'll find
the software available for download of
course the version from april is
available right now wait until next
thursday you'll be able to get a version
that i'm showing you here it's eleven
point 10 which means it came out in 2011
october which is right now right now yes
very cool so you notice that the sound
tonight is like it's spectacular the a
chat room what do you think of the sound
concur would you would you concur do you
agree with us that the sound is quite
exceptional
chatroom are waiting forever yeah yes
yes thank you agra motor sound is
awesome Cregan texas says it's lawson
and dude dave may do we'll take that now
why are we founding so particularly
wonderful now or than you since you
asked Hillary I'm so curious how come
the show is brought to you in part by
music pro berry and you'll find them on
well I actually I'm gonna set up a
website that you can I like for you to
go through our site if you go to cat
five dot TV / music pro anytime after
the show broadcast tonight that's gonna
take you right to their website here's
something really cool they are a
fantastic supplier of they've sourced us
these microphones our mixer all of the
stuff that you here remember how the
sound used to be in season four ever
season four how bad it sounded so last
year here we are with season five it
sounds fantastic and it's all thanks to
these guys over music grow and marry you
you can't necessarily because this is a
global show you can't necessarily hop in
the car and go visit them and buy a
mixer probably no microphone a guitar
piano or a keyboard electric keyboard or
a PA system but if you go to their
website cat five dot TV / music pro get
their phone number give them a call and
they'll give you a price and they'll
actually ship it to you ok cool so no
having to deal with e-commerce or
figuring stuff out you can actually talk
to a real person at music pro they're
fantastic over there they know their
stuff you've probably done several total
yeah fix my saxophone my dad was there
he buys everything from there they have
everything yeah they know everything
about this kind of stuff pitster and
it's it's just they're fantastic so go
to their website cat5 TV / music pro
give them a phone call and and tell them
that you heard of them on Kattegat did
as well but even just to inquire and
find out you know how much does it cost
do some comparative shopping you're
gonna buy something get them ship it to
you mm-hmm and that helps support the
show as well so when when
it is a win-win yep 31 cool hey it's
been fun everybody people in the chat
room life yeah because we always have
fun on category 5 and season 5 of cat
five high five we're going to thrive as
we go live my cat five so yeah I've hand
jive it's gonna be interesting to see
all the cool stuff that is coming up
this season lots of changes always going
on yep you just can't keep up but you
better stick around and find out yes hey
thank you for being Mary know you're
well it's so great to see you as always
oh I love me here video looks neat eh it
looks pretty fabulous check this out
check out this new backdrop yeah well
Eric and I came in about two weeks ago
and we laid bricks for hours and i know
it ourselves job and and then we covered
it back up with the drape those our
little secret yeah house like huh I
gotta wait until season 5 to show that
off ya know well here we are hope you
enjoyed the show everybody hope you had
some fun email your questions live at
category five dot TV we'd love to
receive those emails even just say hi
viewer testimonials we've got a couple
would you like to yeah who's up while we
have yeah that's left to the show of
course cheers greg um you can submit a
viewer testimonial right on our website
category 5 TV interact your testimonials
submit your own that's the way to to do
it uh-huh mm-hmm got one here from
invincible mutants I don't think we've
read this yet all right hi Robbie and
friend I am so grateful to cat5 TV and
the ego batteries for the prize that he
won hola yeah this is the second time i
have won a prize from cat5 TV I could
feel the Envy in the in the floor he
said I am so lucky with category five
and I hope that I won't use up all my
lock and I didn't try to reserve some of
that for a future contests I don't know
how I can thank category 5 for all the
amazing shows
prizes that no one else seems to offer
perhaps this testimonial will do I was
on my way home from the University when
the prize was drawn I only realized that
I was the winner after the show by
watching the catch up on YouTube where
else on earth earth could this happen
category 5 TV a year supply of batteries
non-toxic and eco-friendly that sounds
interesting and yummy yummy will they
break down in my stomach LOL i just love
the show love the prizes and the people
on the show they are just angels you all
bring out my life so thanks again from
invincible mutants cheers here's one
from timco mathiasen who joins us from
raleigh north carolina hello category 5
TV crew I love the show i watch often
I'm mural and iTunes a lot lately I've
been watching since 2008 and enjoy it
when watching 207 I think somebody asked
about watching on a tablet and said wow
I have a tablet and had to give the
mobile site a try that's mobile category
5 TV I started to watch 208 on both
iTunes and on my tablet and somehow I
got to oh wait to start almost exactly
the same time on iTunes and on the
tablet and as you can see in a picture
which I don't see their timco just so
you know oh there's some links it looks
like I'll pull them up after the show
what I now what I'm now considering is a
mini HDMI port on my tablet so that I
can watch the show on the TV right from
my tablet that's very cool stuff thank
you so much for your viewer testimonial
we appreciate you watching the show
mm-hmm well if you'd like to read Dennis
Kelly's as a as a colleague to wrap it
all up your show is awesome I can't wait
for season five with the updates to the
studio it proves to be the best season
yet your crew brings that extra spark to
it already hot show keep up the great
work hey thanks Dennis from Michigan hey
thanks everybody for being with us
tonight have a wonderful week and we'll
see you next Tuesday night bye-bye
sobbing
