Sasha do you remember when you and I
took a tour in virtual reality of the
Starship Enterprise
yes was that not the most amazing Oh
Jaime yes having grown up watching Star
Trek The Next Generation and healing
like NCC 1701 D was kind of a part of my
upbringing if you will like when I was
alone watching Star Trek The Next
Generation it kind of felt like you
might have to Captain Picard was kind of
like a fatherly figure to me right and
the enterprise was very much an
extension of my inner home like that
felt like home to me
yes so to be able to visit the Starship
Enterprise was an experience that that
goes far beyond Star Trek and far beyond
CBS and what's possible through
television and it felt like something
that was just like a huge dream come
true for me in virtual reality
yeah and that was done through the
efforts of a volunteer group of
developers programmers and truly artists
and that was through stage 9 and stage 9
has some sad news this week what
happened for fans of Star Trek and fans
who loved the project and that is that
stage 9 as a volunteer group and folks
who are not doing it for any recompense
merrily have received a cease-and-desist
from CBS Studios why why that's the
question why CBS Studios so you look at
that you look at the the whole mindset
behind Star Trek and in particular Star
Trek The Next Generation and the the the
nature of it and I think it kind of
mirrors the nature of our broadcast a
category 5 TV in there we want to make
every effort when we say hey support us
through our affiliate links and those
kinds of things and through patreon we
want category-five to always be free we
want it to be freely available
to anyone who wants it and so those
things help us to be able to do that
because it costs money and we're never
looking to really make a profit we're
looking to pay the bills and to enhance
the show like enhance the game right
exactly but that's a mindset yeah and I
think that that is really that kind of
mindset that comes from next generation
right and I think that that's really
shared with the stage nine folks the
folks who created that amazing amazing
experience so just literally two maybe
three weeks out from version 11 coming
out like they're right on the cusp of
being able to release the latest and
greatest version of stage 9 the virtual
reality experience of NCC 1701 D the
Starship Enterprise from the next
generation literally weeks away from
that and they get the cease-and-desist
so what does that mean for them can they
move on in any way from that for the
team at stage 9 what it means Sasha is
that they have to stop they have no
choice they can face basically
criminal lawsuit if CBS pushes any
further and if they do not obey the fact
that this is this goes back to we've
been through this with Nintendo and the
thought that this is intellectual
property and yes we acknowledge that
Star Trek is an intellectual property of
CBS Studios however as fans of Star Trek
and fans of Star Trek The Next
Generation we love it we want to keep it
alive because it's been off the air for
many many years yes we want that
experience now we finally have the
technology that a group of volunteers
who are doing it for free
can give that to us the fans of Star
Trek and keep it alive so that when
maybe CBS says hey we're gonna bring
Patrick Stewart back all of a sudden we
who you know that dream has been kept
alive through fan efforts right
are still there are still passionate
about this project about about the whole
Star Trek thing right ah I choose my
heart breaks for them it really does and
the fan fandom and it's it's
disheartening to see CBS taking that
stance as well to just basically shut
them down yeah I feel like maybe I was
wrong and how much faith I had in CBS
and their abilities to just like oh I
just don't love it I don't like this
it's the same I felt a heebie-jeebies
when when the one who was it that stops
people from doing the roms with Nintendo
yeah yeah
and before that loved Nintendo but I why
do you need to make money off of old
Zelda I'm okay with that I'm okay with
them making money off of it but don't
kill away the fan projects that are not
making money off of it right even if
stage 9 collected money from their users
which maybe they did a little bit but
they didn't in fact that was not at all
their intent and I don't know if they
did or not but if they did we we take we
take Commission off of Amazon and things
like that we pay for hosting we pay for
an astronomical amount of storage space
to be able to host 11 seasons of HD
video we've distributed over RSS feeds
that cost a lot of money we have Amazon
AWS accounts that cost a lot of money
and so that helps us to be able to
afford to give this thing for free and
similarly how do they give something for
free if they're not and they're not
making money like do you know what I
mean I don't mind CBS saying we want to
make money off of this franchise that's
cool
I want you to make money off this
franchise I want to be able to support
the franchise this is the only reason
that I've watched Star Trek discovery
because it's not good I'm serious look
at Star Trek The Next Generation look at
Star Trek Enterprise look at Star Trek
Voyager look at Star Trek Star Trek
deeper
9 and the mentality of Star Trek is lost
in Discovery so but I'll watch it
because I want to support the franchise
ok that's fair
but they're killing off those small guys
that are just trying to keep it alive
that is not fair this is not not cool
please comment below how can we help we
really don't know yet like this was
announced yesterday the the team at
stage 9 made the announcement as to why
their site is gone and why their
profiles are gone I can't imagine how
their hearts are feeling right now cuz I
cannot even believe that they've given
this like I've put years into this and I
started well into category 5 right so
imagine if you came in and I said we
have to shut it down because Microsoft
said because we talked about Microsoft
Windows we have to shut it down right
exactly could you imagine if all of a
sudden you're watching the show and next
week you cannot watch this yeah I'm not
a huge fan of Microsoft Windows let's
give you a better scenario ok I'm a big
fan of Linux I'm a big I'm really loving
Linux Mint yes I love Ubuntu let's look
at canonical and what happens if
canonical comes after me because I love
it because I want to promote it because
I want to show my viewers about it what
would happen if they came up and said
you need to shut it down we're gonna sue
you if you don't stop right right that's
a closer scenario they love it they want
to do it for free they want to give it
out they want to promote it and give it
to the community I can't even imagine
I'm not I'm not happy about it I'm
brokenhearted to be honest so what can
we do
let CBS know as best you can tweet about
it post blog entries about it tag CBS
let them know email them find out how
you can get a hold of them and tell them
like stage 9 as a fan project and we
support it and we support you CBS we
want to see you create more in this
franchise but don't kill the dream and
the passion that we have for this
franchise just your your your hurt and
your fans
well said Robbie that's what I would say
mm-hmm and let the folks at stage 9 know
that you love them and you support them
and you want to see them continue doing
whatever they are able to do under the
under the cease-and-desist you can find
them on Facebook just do a search for
stage 9 you'll find them there they're
on Twitter as well and their accounts
there are still act as they've had to
remove all videos and things like that
[Music]
[Applause]
