last week we cover the PT or a couple
weeks ago P camera yes yes so we have an
update on it about an adapter yeah do
you remember we I showed what I soldered
myself so we got this p OE adapter that
means power over ethernet so we've got
this great PTZ camera all these short
forms right great tech show all these
short forms p TZ is pan tilt zoom so you
think about a camera that can pan left
and right tilt up and down and zoom so
in and out so PTZ camera that's what it
represents it means you can digitally
through an app or through a program on
your computer a web browser you can
control the positioning in the zoom of
our camera it's great but one of the
things with it is that you've got to
have not only Ethernet or Wi-Fi network
connectivity but you also have to have
power to it right and so that means this
wall wart that's got to be plugged in
and then plugged into the camera well I
came up with this with this little
dongle that would convert power over
ethernet from yes from a surveillance
camera of all things okay to work with
the PTZ camera we were reviewing which
you can find out more about and actually
get the the device cat v dot TV slash
PTZ but then one of my friends brett he
found a device on amazon which we've now
added to that link so you can pick it up
directly because not everybody has the
NAD soldering skills of Robbie you know
if I am you've seen my soldering skills
loose definition you have okay oh I mean
mad like you know Mad Hatter okay no I
saw in a matter of seven days you like
improved by like a hundred percent she's
the kindest person in the world yeah you
started from the bottom now you're here
started from the bottom now here so
Brett found an adapter on Amazon that is
exactly what I created but it's like two
bucks the one I made cost six bucks
and the one I made is this like
three-inch dong 4 inch dongle this one
is just like a little tip that you just
plug on to the adapter vulva so here you
go it exists but if you if you do like
size to price ratio it's a better value
for girls so how many dollars per end of
the adapter so this thing is is going to
allow you to use power over ethernet on
the PTZ camera that we reviewed right
and it's like it's all pre fin dangled
so you don't have to be a master
soldering guru like me is so sarcastic
watch that episode check it out how many
episodes have I messed up soldering on
[Music]
[Applause]
