welcome to new everyday episode 154
today we're going to be talking about
everything being permissible that means
you can do it but is it really
beneficial don't go anywhere
wow this is new every day with Jeff
Weston and Lawrence Cruz
but welcome everyone to new every day
I'm Lawrence Cruz and I'm Jeff Weston so
glad to have you here with us
on episode 154 154 that's exciting
how you been you're looking good for 154
yeah I'm not a hundred and fifty four
episodes in your about honor but the
jobs honored a good shout out to all of
the episodes before that has nothing to
do with you or me that's right
absolutely which is why we're still here
that's right this is season four if
you're just joining us and you're going
what is this new every day we've been on
the air now we're in our fourth season
episode 154 with the previous co-host
we're doing this for three years they
started the show we've taken over and
having a good time doing it yeah lots of
fun very exciting now I'm I missed my
first week like we're only a few weeks
in and I had to miss last week but you
had Shailene and sure did and watch that
one great interview exciting the call of
God on her life for such a young woman
isn't that amazing yeah well absolutely
hence the reason for inviting her and
just for her to share we could have gone
on she has so much - oh yeah she is so
much - shade and just fast-forward
through the bad jokes you can catch us
on demand I can get us on Cody flex Roku
Facebook YouTube and as well past
episodes on our website new every day
dot TV and a huge shout out to all those
watching us in Southern California on
Channel Dave EVB television for the
hi-de-ho Roger here my mother loves me
okay so given that that joke was so
horrible it probably something that you
know is permissible but not necessarily
beneficial okay
nice segue there that's what we're
talking about on today's episode is is
we want to talk about the idea
everything is permissible but not
everything is beneficial and that is
based off a scripture in first
Corinthians that that Paul was writing
to the Church of Corinth now
if you've not read that scripture are
you going what are you talking about let
me break it down for you so Paul says I
have the right to do anything it's in
quotations you say but not everything is
beneficial I have the right to do
anything but not everything is
constructive no one should seek their
own good but the good of others and that
is the key verse for what we're going to
be talking about today is what does it
mean that everything is permissible but
not everything is beneficial because to
me that says I could do whatever I want
it doesn't matter if I want to go live a
life just like the prodigal son just
blow it all my inheritance
hanging out with tons of women and end
up feeding pigs trying to stay alive
that's okay hmm and is that what the
scripture means well this is a good
question no doubt if your mother is
watching she she's wondering like okay
what is going on with my son ever since
he grew this beard I don't know what's
happening
I'll take Jeff it's a fantastic question
like it's about this whole thing is God
in heaven pointing his finger or maybe
not sitting there calmly but is saying
don't you dare do this if you do this
I'm gonna like is it about rules and
regulations is it about how much I do
versus how much I don't do like this is
a great question that I think what like
most people in the world have asked one
time or another if they have any
interest in serving God at all
absolutely and in today's society
whether you're in the church or not mmm
the whole idea of you don't tell me what
I can do or not do yeah I'm gonna do
what I want it's such a prevalent theme
right now
and and it's everywhere I mean with the
rise of social media everybody is
entitled to their opinion and nobody can
express their opinion about what they
think about what you're thinking Wow
I'll follow that one because now they're
well that's the way we are and and that
mentality has permeated the church
culture as well I think so and I'm sure
that there's somebody sitting on whoo
whoa
back it up boys I don't want to hear
about this flaws within the church you
don't tell me exactly did you get where
I'm going so the whole idea of the rules
and the regulations that idea has been
thrown out the window and everybody said
I can do what I want and that also comes
down to the idea of the way we live our
lives and so what I mean as I was
thinking about this episode I'm going
okay how is our life as Christians what
does the way we live say about us mm-hmm
and so with you as a pastor I'm sure you
run across at least one person mm-hmm
that likes to think they can do what
they want would that be true oh yeah I
mean posturing or not pastoring but I
appreciate what you're saying but yeah
just being alive and breathing I'm like
it seems to me that what I'm this word
entitlement has been something that
right yes that I'm hearing from fellow
pastors from people who are managers
that have nothing to do with the church
they're saying oh my goodness we're
there's been this season where everyone
we hire has this whole attitude look
like I know entitlement mm-hmm hey yeah
let's have a talk about this job and you
know I'll work for you this many hours
and this and I want to start at this
time and I'm going to go home at this
time and it's almost like the employee
is telling the employer how it's gonna
go down and okay so let's say it's true
or it isn't true there's there just
seems to be this attitude of entitlement
that is also saying hey just to make it
clear you're not the boss of me I'm the
boss of me right and I can do whatever I
want to do right yeah but then that goes
to the other side is it beneficial if
that's the way you are in a job
interview I'm gonna go out on a limb and
say that you probably didn't get the
benefit of the job you can interview
however you want but you probably are
not gonna get a job and the same idea
with the way we live our lives as
Christians I mean so many Christians who
have this idea of you know what it's all
about the grace of God I'm forgiven I
can do what I want God has saved me all
I just need to do is God please forgive
me and it's done it's taken care of I'm
forgiven and it's like okay is it maybe
maybe that's true maybe that's the case
but is that the right way of living yes
you're covered by grace and yes there's
the salvation of God but is that the way
you should be living I mean as a
Christian could we live a life where
we're going out getting drunk on
weekends shooting up drugs sleeping with
the prostitutes I mean these are extreme
examples but could we live that way and
still say we're a Christian Wow Wow
okay I'm calling your mother there's
somebody said that I would see my mother
now she's going oh no where is this
going but friend that's a great question
yeah friends what about God's grace you
know what it's amazing there's a we
should write a song about that
Amazing Grace like how amazing is God's
grace can we say right up front I'll
speak on your behalf
there we are not in any way shape or
form saying go out and do these like
what would be called sinful activities
no we're not we're not saying that would
be a good thing to do okay let's make
that very clear
they aren't good things to participate
in having said that the question is if I
was to go
and do something crazy like you had
mentioned would God love me less hmm no
he wouldn't love me less right his love
would remain okay so then the scripture
says Oh
what do you mean His grace has got me
covered so therefore I know then I will
just go have multiple partners well my
wife wouldn't think that's a good idea
and neither do i but you know there's
someone who might come and say to me
well what's you Church you're just
telling me it's a bunch of rules and I
can't do this and I can't do that I
can't do this
just a second here even God's not saying
to you you can't do this and you can't
do that and you can't do this I don't
think that's what God is saying Jeff no
I don't either in fact I think God is
saying go ahead and do whatever you want
to do what please don't be afraid but if
God was making it a mandatory thing that
you couldn't go out and do this and this
and this this well half the things I've
done I well I wouldn't be here right to
even talk about this but God is allowing
me to do whatever I want but the
question remains
Lawrence how'd that go for you yep how
did that go for you it was it as you
read in the scripture is it beneficial
and the answer is very clearly no it is
not beneficial at all exactly and if
you're sitting there going I can't wrap
my head around this concept let me break
it down this way you're a parent your
kid comes to you and says hey can I do
whatever can I go play with you know my
friends we want to climb a tree and use
a 40-foot ladder no I don't think that's
a good idea
not beneficial for you you're going to
get hurt yeah but I really want to do it
look that's the way you want to live go
for it but you're gonna get hurt not to
your benefit hmm and so the kid climbs
tree falls out breaks arm they could
still do it but it's not beneficial and
there's a better way to do it there's a
better way to live and we're going to
take a quick break and when we come back
we're going to talk about
that better way to live and how the
scripture fit into that so don't go
anywhere
stick around for more from new every day
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts welcome back to new every
day
well we are on a journey here talking
about a subject that I know Jeff is has
just been passionate within your heart
and rightfully so well let's just go
right down to the Bible verse in 1st
Corinthians 10 23 and 24 I'll read it to
you I have the right to do anything you
say
but not everything is beneficial I have
the right to do anything but not
everything is constructive here it is
now verse 24 first Corinthians 10 24 no
one should seek their own good but the
good of others
oh this is a TSN turning point that's
what I see ah Jeff I think this whole
verse 24 or answers a whole lot of
questions about why am i doing what I'm
doing that's right and that's the whole
point I mean we talked before the break
about people going oh look I want to do
what I want to do don't tell me what to
do it's all about the rules bla bla bla
but at the end of the day that scripture
just sums it up it's not for your own
good it's for the good of others and so
a little bit later in that chapter just
a few verses down you've got first
Corinthians 10:31 2:30
and Paul writes so whether you eat or
drink whatever you do do it all for the
glory of God Wow
do not cause anyone to stumble whether
Jews Greeks or the Church of God even as
I try to please everyone in every way so
for I am NOT asking Mike for my own good
but the good of many so that they may be
saved that is the whole reason for the
church Wow is to spread the good news
the message of Jesus Christ in his
salvation and if we are living a life
that is however we want that doesn't say
much about our witness and it's not that
this you know this episode is about
saying how are you living don't do it
but it's to cause you and to hopefully
challenge you to reassess what you're
doing and how you're living is your life
for the benefit of others or is it for
the benefit of yourself oh wow and I
love in that scripture how he says it's
for the Jews it's for the Greeks and for
the Church of God it's not just about
the church it's not just about those
around you in your community it's
everyone you come in contact with your
life is to be for their benefit well
there you have it so what it what is it
what do we say what's for the Jew what's
for the Greek the Gentile what's for
others what is it how I live it's like
whoa stop the train right back to this
is what we were saying the first part
there's this entitlement that here it is
that so easily wants to creep up in my
own heart wait a second here I've got my
rights don't tell me what to do okay
yeah my human nature wants to wage war
and just rise up and tell everybody the
way it's gonna be let me tell you
something God says okay
go ahead if that's Lawrence the way you
want to live you go right ahead and live
that way what he's not saying like you
know that it's a good thing but he's
saying you go right ahead
and let me ask you a question is that
helping is
bringing benefit and furthermore who is
it you're trying to benefit oh I see I
have the right eye the me is saying oh
that's fantastic
don't tell me what to do oh I get it
your whole reason for living seems to be
so that you can satisfy yourself right
oh and God says I get it you haven't got
the memo yet
that's not how I've called my children
to live it's about laying down your life
oh here it is
for others yes what a game-changer that
is it is and it's such a simple concept
it's so often it gets missed on people
and I know for myself hmm I struggle
with putting myself mm-hmm you know
secondary to what our purpose is for
Jeff I think if I think everybody sure
wrestles with that and maybe and it may
not be something that maybe there are
some who just ultimately they say that's
it and they never seem to have to battle
with that again that's not true in my
life it's like every day I need to what
hmm crucify my flesh if you will say
Lord I choose to submit to your lordship
you're the boss of me not me being the
boss of me
right exactly you know and so if you're
sitting here and you're listening you're
going okay
I identify guys I understand I know what
you're saying but quite frankly I try
and I try and I try and I just keep
doing those things I don't want to do
well guess what you're not alone and we
all struggle with it it's our sinful
nature and in fact we hear about it in
Romans 7 15 to 17 yeah I do not
understand what I do for what I want to
do I do not do yeah but what I hate I do
and if I do what I do not want to do I
agree that the law is good as it is it's
no longer I myself who do it but the sin
living in me Wow and if you are sitting
there going a
want to have a stronger witness I want
to be a better Christian I want my life
to be a benefit for those around me so
that I can bring them to Christ I can be
a witness
I can uplift those in my church whatever
it is that you're trying to do and maybe
you're just struggling with breaking
through that sin in your life guess what
we all go through it and that's why
we've got the grace of God that's why he
was the ultimate sacrifice that's why he
died on the cross so that unlike in the
Old Testament where every time the
Israelites screwed up they got to take
that bowl and they got to do their sin
offering and then there's the fellowship
offering and like there's all these
animals are getting slaughtered on the
altar that's done it's over
Christ changed it all he's the ultimate
sacrifice for every sin that you
struggle with in your life and so you
don't have to struggle so you sin you
mess up you pick yourself up you dust
yourself off and say I've got a purpose
I'm going forward I don't want to do
that I don't want to be a slave to sin
anymore I'm gonna keep moving forward
because my life is for the benefit of
those around me to bring them to Christ
Jesus
oh man this is hebrews chapter 10 that
you're talking about you know that i'll
i remember as that teenager i had shared
my testimony a little bit of coming to
christ you know i was 10 years of age
when the holy spirit first drew me to a
saving knowledge of jesus christ as lord
and savior and what a day that was and i
began to read the Bible cuz the preacher
said well you're Christian so Christians
are either Bible is a good idea mom can
I have a Bible she helped me get one and
I remember reading it every night over a
period of years I'm now 14 and still
doing at that point in my life I'm 14
and Oh God's Word is just speaking to me
Hebrews 10 jumps out at me Christ's
sacrifice once and for all and I'm
reading this and I am being like I am
just being arrested with this truth
going wait a second here here's the
inside story my background was inside my
own mind I mean
even though by grace I was saved and I
am saved by the grace of God I secretly
thought Jeff that because I read a
chapter or two every night because I
prayed regularly every day for a certain
period of time and these are great
disciplines that I still do but I was
developing this attitude of hey you know
I'm pretty good at this now you know
like yeah after all I've got how many
days in a row and I don't miss this and
I got this attitude of almost thinking
I'm a good Christian because I do this
and I do that and I do other things and
quite frankly it was so wrong of me and
it was in direct contrast to Hebrews
chapter 10 were said Lawrence the only
thing that allows you at all to be saved
is the sacrifice of Christ right and so
here I am doing these works thinking I'm
really good when in fact it had nothing
to do with it and the Lord allowed me
later on when I was in my first year of
college second year of college actually
and he says let me just show you how
wrong you are about that and I fell flat
on my face wondering I wasn't sinning
you know going out doing gross
ridiculous things that's not my point I
just wondered God are you listen to me
and I was so confused and God was
allowing me to realize that it is by
grace that I am saved and by nothing
else and so that kind of brings me back
to this whole scripture at the beginning
everything is lawful for me guess what
yeah it is what Christ has paid for all
of my sins I can do whatever I want but
friends not everything is beneficial yep
in fact if I choose to just go satisfy
the desires that I want oh well I have
my right and I go out and live that way
you know what it does it it it does pain
it it creates pain for the Lord himself
yeah it creates pain Jeff or it would
hurt you
if I lived a certain way from our
friendship my wife would be thinking
what are you doing my children be saying
what are you doing dad I thought that
you love the Lord and I'm saying well I
can do whatever I want
and I really believe when it all comes
down God says no Lawrence you can do
those things if you want but how is that
how is that gonna go for you right it's
not gonna work well at all and the verse
continues to say Lawrence I've called
you to a higher calling I've called you
to lay down all of your desires so that
what you do would be for the benefit of
others boy doesn't that sound like how
Jesus live his life and what he did for
you and me
praise the Lord Lee and that's the whole
point so if there's two takeaways first
one recognize that you're a sinner
Christ paid that price and you can say
I'm not a slave to that anymore do you
mean all my sins are gone Jeff all your
sins are gone do you mean everybody
watching you mean like what Christ did
on the cross paid for all of their sin
all taken care of doesn't matter what
you've done and it doesn't matter what
you're doing now friends that's great
news that's right and the second point
is your life is for others so stop what
you're doing stop the I can do anything
and start doing what's beneficial for
those around you to bring them to draw
them to Christ because that is our perp
evaluate yeah hey you have a look at
what you're doing go ahead and do
whatever you want to do but have a look
at it this is we have the mind of Christ
is this just for me or is this really
about helping someone else and man I'll
tell you what that puts a smile on my
face because once you get a taste of
living your life for the purpose that
others might come to know Jesus Christ
as Lord and Savior I tell you what
you're gonna get hooked on that because
it's exciting when you watch how you
live actually make an influence in other
people's lives getting better maybe
you're here today and you don't know
Jesus as your Lord and Savior we'd
invite you ask him to forgive you your
sin he's already paid for him sing God
would you please take away my sin
if you cry out to him I guarantee you on
the authority of the scripture Christ
will take your sins away
Amen you well I could keep talking about
this but we're at a time so I think we
need to just call her here
I could go grab some fast food but
that's not necessarily beneficial so I
think I'm gonna go eat something healthy
there you go
that's a great thing that's a great
takeaway see you next week catch a new
episode of new every day
every Friday morning at new every day TV
we're also on roku Kodi Plex youtube
google play music podcasts and news book
or if you're in Southern California tune
in every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb
TV channel 33 television for the high
desert
[Music]
