here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom a
company who sold fake followers to
social media users is under
investigation for the practice the
largest cryptocurrency theft in history
happened Friday in Japan with a loss of
public to 530 million dollars u.s. Apple
is making the slowdown of old devices
optional and net neutrality will be
enforced in New York under orders from
the governor these stories are coming
right up
don't go anywhere whether you shop on
ThinkGeek gearbest B&amp;H photo video eBay
or Amazon or even if you want a free
trial of audible you'll find the best
deals and support the shows we produce
by simply visiting the shopping sites
you already frequent by using the links
on our website visit category 5 TV slash
partners for the full and ever-growing
list and help us create more free
content like this show thank you for
shopping with our partners and thank you
for watching this is the category 5 TV
newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories with a slight Linux voice I'm
Sacha Rickman and here are the top
stories are following this week New
York's chief prosecutor says the state
is opening an investigation into a firm
that allegedly sold millions of fake
followers to social media users
impersonation and deception are illegal
under New York law said Eric
Schneiderman according to the New York
Times the company Deveaux V stands
accused of stealing real people's
identities which it denies the paper
linked the follower factory to a host of
celebrity accounts The Times published
an in-depth report on two movie on
Saturday including interviews with
people who alleged that their account
details and profile pictures had been
copied to create realistic box it is
alleged that others who wanted to
increase their follower count including
actors entrepreneurs and political
commentators could pay to be followed by
these BOTS
social media accounts with a high number
of followers are able to boost influence
which can directly impact on public
opinion it can also bring other
advantages to account holders such as
job offers or sponsorship deals
mr. Schneiderman said he was concerned
that such opaque operations were
undermining democracy on its website de
villiers customers at the chance to
order up to 250,000 Twitter followers
with prices starting at $12 or 850
pounds celebrities also can buy likes
and retweets the company sells followers
on a range of other platforms including
Pinterest LinkedIn SoundCloud and
YouTube the company is registered at a
New York City address
although the New York Times alleges it's
only a front with its actual offices
being in Florida it also employs workers
in the Philippines Twitter has responded
to the investigation saying it is
working to stop the movie and similar
companies Wow
so if companies like that are happening
like how prevalent do you think it is
how fake do you think the numbers are
that well I do remember the news story
where Lady Gaga had paid to have a huge
boost on YouTube yep and they caught her
and so you too it was this whole
kerfuffle in the news and you know
because with YouTube you can earn
revenue from the ads based on plays and
so if everybody you know if they say oh
this is super popular
everybody's gonna watch the video but I
think yeah exactly yeah I remember even
going back in Canadian politics I think
to federal election two elections ago
there was a big kerfuffle about the
federal Conservative Party purchasing
fake social media profiles to bolster
their efforts online and there was extra
likes and stuff so it's been going on
for a while sure how would you know if
you had been turned into a bot like do
they like how would I know like my name
where do you use would I know that if
you search for the bald nerd
yeah I mean how would you know and and
it's so it's so unfair to those of us
like people say why does category 5 have
so view is so few views on YouTube we
don't really we have both have real
views that's it so and not to say that
people who have high views are paying
for views that's that's not what I'm
saying but it's so unfair to know that
there are services that are charging
people to be able to increase their
viewership or increase their Facebook
Likes and things like that my wife is an
author and she has submitted so many
books and like she's written novels and
she's written short stories and
submitted them and knows that she's she
gets these rejection letters on account
of the fact that she doesn't have enough
Facebook followers so somebody who is
trying to establish themselves in this
world as a author may say okay let's buy
10,000 Facebook followers now we're not
that type of family we're not going to
do that and so my wife who is a better
author than most that I have ever read
write is struggling to get noticed by
the the publishers or even the readers
because of the fact that she doesn't
have that platform that's unfair it is
unfair so go onto Facebook Google Becca
Ferguson on Facebook back is an amazing
author BK it's not it's not fair that
these sorts of practices skew the
numbers it makes me think about the
times when those stock market it was
like bots that we're increasing and
inflating that yes it's exactly the same
practice it's just a fake amount of of
retweets that brings yes the actual
views of you know these using social and
social media in order to control the
populations next move so whether they're
gonna invest or whether they're going to
vote or whether they're going to buy a
book and if if it does actually
influence the scholarships that you
or the or the job you might get
absolutely unfair because it's sort of
pushing people into the corner where all
of a sudden now they are forced to buy
those because if that's the only way
you're gonna get that job are you gonna
stand by your principles or are you
gonna pay and get in I start going down
Japanese media say an exchange has lost
fifty eight billion yen through hacking
the equivalent of about five hundred and
thirty million dollars in cryptocurrency
the coin check exchange said on its
website Friday that it has halted sales
and withdrawals of the currency which is
called nem it later added that hid and
also restricted dealings in most other
crypto currencies to keep in mind as
many as ten thousand businesses in Japan
are said to accept crypto currencies
Kyoto news services reported that coin
Czech president kochira wada
apologized at a news conference and said
the company may seek financial
assistance Kyoto says the coin check
exchange detected the unauthorized
access to its system early on Friday and
promptly froze trading the reported loss
exceeds the 48 billion yen that the jab
jab am base mount got spit Quang
exchange loss lost back in 2014 some
260,000 customers are said to be
affected by the reported theft but over
the weekend coin check promised to use
its own funds to reimburse more than 46
billion yen around 423 million dollars
to customers who have lost their nem
cryptocurrency coins on Friday the
company says that it has the digital
address of where the assets were sent
interesting yeah I to be honest with you
if they have the address to where the
cryptocurrency is sent does that not
mean that they could recover that
cryptocurrency would it be nice if it
was like the address like you know 50
Yonge Street I know it's not like that
right yeah well it's not that
identifying and the whole idea behind
cryptocurrency is it's very anonymous
well I mean you covered the new
story last week where there was the
there was a bot or something where the
money was being filtered to another
location the word I mean at the end of
the day this is nothing more than ones
and zeros right and so can you hide like
that basic code and you know remove that
cookie crumb so to speak of where the
money went - I mean sure they know the
address I went to but from there where
did it go and then if not where did it
go
and how many other rear outers are there
I mean and if you're gonna be stealing
half a billion dollars in cryptocurrency
you would think that you're gonna
reroute the money so many times
dispersed it so many times so that
following that trail of crypto crumbs is
near impossible
I mean do you think though I mean this
company is stood up and said yes we're
gonna reimburse
everybody who's lost their money which i
think is amazing and honorable but I
don't think that they should be the ones
that that take the loss I want there to
be some way of tracking that money back
down and getting it back I don't love
that some form of insurance
responsibility but there is no bank when
it's cryptocurrency but that's what they
represent is basically a crypto currency
bank right no it's so tough because I
love the idea of anonymous money I loved
taking I love cryptocurrency in theory
but then something like this happens and
I think to myself you can't track it
it's not like somebody walking into a
bank and putting a mask on and you can
catch them on their way out the door it
doesn't work that way or the numbers the
serial numbers of the bills have been
tracked it's not so much it is funny
that we say that because at the end of
the day it is just digital it's yeah we
know that it's like we live in a world
of digital I know but you go into a bank
and the money that is there is not
actually there so it's all it try to
wrap my head around this because I know
you can't technically do it this way but
it's almost like why couldn't they just
say oh we'll just type those numbers
back in here you have yes
we've given you your balance back I mean
sure somebody out there is stolen money
that they didn't pay for but it's
digital there's no real currency it's
it's but-but-but their money's just
paper if you're but if you produce it
if you've produced paper money than it's
paper money I mean in Canada we've got
plastic money but it's just like Robbie
said I mean if you're in the bank the
money that's in there isn't actually
there if you recall y2k the year 2000
when everybody was all freaking out
about the y2k bug I remember something
about if 10% of the US population
withdrew their physical funds from the
bank the bank's would be completely
bankrupt because of interest that's been
earned it's not real money when you get
a car loan you're not actually borrowing
physical money anyway it's this weird
promise airy stuff yeah okay we've got
to move on to the next story Sasha
Apple has confirmed that a software
update will let I phone owner switch off
the battery saver feature that slows
down some models the option to switch
off the feature will appear on the
iPhone 6 6 + se 6 s 7 7 + and another
model that's Robbie operating the
teleprompter can I apologize
last month Apple apologized after it was
found to be deliberately Robbie's
deliberately slowing down the news
angry has not been upfront about it
action before the practice was
discovered take it anytime at suspected
the company slow down older iPhone to
encourage customers to upgrade Apple
admitted to slowing down some phones
with aging batteries but said it was
only done to prolong the life of devices
the ability to switch off the battery
saver will appear in the iOS eleven
point three when it is late release
later this year do you believe how much
would it change the phone because it is
such an older model and the the apps of
advance and everything yeah but see part
of the other issue I have with this
related but not really is that a certain
point app developer start saying this
app isn't compatible your software is
too out-of-date or you can't even
install this because it's your your
software isn't it you know to the level
it needs to be and so even if it's not
from the slowdown standpoint developers
force you to go to the newer models
otherwise you can't get their apps right
we're sure we're in a culture of forced
consumption you have to buy the next
newest thing to get the speed and truth
be told it is if it's only helping like
iPhone 6 and and more current then
you're just really pandering to the
audience that's already used to buying
the latest and greatest sure I mean how
long ago to the iPhone 6 come out no not
long no one of those four years ago
that's that's not long no it's not like
most of my clothes are older than that I
don't like it it feels kind of dirty
business to me yes all of a sudden
they're saying okay well we'll we'll
stop
protecting your battery and your phone
will work faster and now all of a sudden
what happens have you voided your
warranty or what's gonna happen now if
they do the software what it shouldn't
void the warranty I just I can't
subscribe to that mentality because I'm
the kind of person like you've got an
older laptop there and it's getting slow
so what are we gonna do we're gonna
install a new version of Linux on it
bring it back to life I've got I'm not
having to replace Hardware I'm just
gonna change the software if I want to
put like my ipod touch I couldn't use it
for the teleprompter I thought oh here's
finally a use for the iPod touch right
that I've used three times we'll use it
as as the teleprompter screen and it
wouldn't work because it was too slow
cuz it no because it the the operating
system didn't support the app right so
give me the new operating system it's
it's unfair business and the truth of
the matter is at one point in my life I
was a huge fan of Apple everything looks
so pretty with Apple a very dark time of
your life
it was everything looks fresh and clean
yeah but bad you've realized they trick
you so incredibly into being blind to
the fact that you're gonna buy this
you're paying for form factor in a lot
of cases yeah and you're paying for it
and then all of a sudden it's gonna be
obsolete before you can blink an eye you
can start college with one eye book and
before you're done college you've
already had to buy another one it's not
fair and it's it's dirty business well
and I I think it's I think this whole
thing has impacted Apple because I was
reading yesterday I think that already
Apple is cutting production of its new
phone by 25%
Wow because the orders are not what they
thought it would be so it makes me
wonder are people say and we'll screw
you Apple because of I don't want to be
treated like that
yeah so I think that everybody should
really ban together and really only
purchase things that they can use for a
long amount of time that they can get in
and replace components at their will so
hardware is never going to be an issue I
really want us to stop being so driven
by the latest and greatest thing and if
we could all learn to be made
I'll learn to solder and all learn what
a capacitor and a resistor is I have a
city to stop buying devices that you
can't open and repair these things right
then what a world it would be I will
give you okay so somebody had mentioned
in the chatroom just replaced the
battery yeah I had done that with my
wife's phone in the past so you're still
it's a software feature well exactly but
her new phone not an iPhone thankfully
it is a Samsung one of our kids dropped
it and there was something with the
charge connection that it went loose and
it wasn't charging properly I went to
open the phone to try and get to it they
make it so hard to get into the phones
now I mean she's past her one-year ones
he's a lot of stuff to fit into a small
package oh well I agree but the thing
that bugs me is why do you have to
remove the freaking screen why can't you
just go to the other side and access it
from the back there are g3 I just pull
the back off and change the batter I
think I'm just gonna go back to rotary
alright New York has become the second
state to enforce net neutrality with an
executive order that prevents ISPs from
obtaining state contracts unless they
follow net neutrality principles New
York Governor Andrew Cuomo signed the
executive order last week just days
after Montana Governor Steve both did
the very same the states are challenging
the Federal Communications Commission
which repealed its own net neutrality
rules and preempted States from imposing
similar ones the executive orders
attempt to run around the FCC's
preemption of local laws instead of
directly requiring all ISPs to follow
net neutrality principles the executive
orders require state agencies to only do
business with ISPs that offer neutral
networks Cuomo said the FCC's dangerous
ruling goes against the core of our
values of democracy and New York we'll
do everything in our power to protect
net neutrality and the free exchange of
ideas the order says that state agencies
and departments may not enter into
contracts for Internet service for
Internet service unless the ISPs agree
to adhere
to net neutrality principles ISPs would
disqualify themselves from obtaining
state contracts if they block throttle
or prioritize internet content or
applications or require that end-users
pay a different or higher rates to
access specific types of content for
applications the New York order goes
beyond Montana's by including the
specific provision against Church and
users higher rates to ask access
specific types of Internet content and
applications awesome I love love that
way to find a workaround I know well
it's still being challenged sure
apparently the the FCC is looking to
legally block it and there it's gonna
become a big court issue my guess is
probably gonna go right up to the
highest levels of the courts but I think
it's great I absolutely love this just
like you Sasha because there's so many
impacts because of the removal of net
neutrality that something like this will
go a long way to helping the little man
for lack of a better expression because
if you're just somebody at home who's
you know got a low-paying job but you've
got your internet your trying to get by
to have to start paying for all these
other things because you're being
throttled
it's it's an unnecessary money grab I
mean it's just not right I I think this
is a great story I think it's good that
there's politicians that are standing up
for net neutrality but finding a
workaround to the FCC's ruling and
saying okay here's a way that we can
still have net net neutrality in it's
legitimate like in what it is but
getting around it completely right now
the interesting thing about this is it's
only related to government contracts so
it's what you have to have those you
can't you can't be an ISP without them
well you it's if you're a little ISP
that doesn't care about a government
contract then you're not going to bother
making the change but if you this is
gonna impact the big ISPs sure because
they're the ones that are going to want
the government contract so I think it's
great
too bad no because it's just government
it does limit the footprint of the
impact that this would have but if
there's a way to get around it to say
that all ISPs that would be even better
and interesting how many other states
hop onto this my heart completely that
they're stepping up and maintaining know
we still have net neutrality in Canada
and I don't think that will ever go away
I mean that wants it to of course they
do
yeah they're their big company they want
to be able to to throttle people as much
as they can I mean but I think from the
general populace in Canada I don't think
that's something we would stand behind
and it would probably hurt bells image
on a whole but what is the big
difference for somebody who's gone I
don't know a net neutrality like what do
what do you mean throttling nobody's put
their hands around my neck like what do
you what do you mean throttle what are
you talking about what is throttling for
somebody who doesn't know well if you go
on Netflix and Netflix is paid because
if there is not net neutrality and
Netflix has not paid the premium to give
you that at high speeds then all of a
sudden you get that buffering and then
all of a sudden you'll go to a different
that slower connections to certain
services oh there you go
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight lenox
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website for the
category 5 TV newsroom I'm Sasha
excellent
[Music]
