welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob a
Ferguson welcome to episode number 215
of category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
November the first 2011 and I'm Robbie
Ferguson's and I'm Hillary Rumble
greetings everyone thank you for tuning
in for another episode of category 5 and
you'll be glad you did because we've got
lots coming up this episode for instance
in the newsroom densa da da china has
revealed their latest super computer and
it's not powered by Intel or AMD OnStar
help subscribers avoid chance encounters
with monsters this halloween and a
hacker leaked 90,000 social media
passwords to prove a point change your
passwords people and lastly it's
confirmed hashtag ubuntu is entering the
smartphone and tablet market and unity
will help it get there stick around
because these stories are coming up
later in the show you want to know
something that's really kind of
hilarious and yet i just kind of notices
that you're very very short tonight and
people at home were probably like she
usually that short is she I am short
krista krista came last week for the
halloween special she had this this
paper crown so we're like okay we'll
just lower the chair and and so this is
why this is what I just thought I'd
mention that Hillary's not actually
three feet shorter than me there we go
just thought I'd make the man I grew
magic of television people you know what
what could happen if I his grew up the
windows all of a sudden you know I could
lose 10 pounds they say the camera adds
10 pounds
then I can lose 20 how you been I'm
fabulous yeah I'm just good to see you
keepin it real I'm glad to be here
though yeah nice yeah I made a CD one's
called keeping it real did you really
and now you know the rest of the story
whoo so hold on yeah the CD like I feel
like there should be a chance for us to
hear some of this perhaps in future
endeavors in future endeavors perhaps in
future endeavors okay fair enough i'll
leave it at that give me the eyes like
what do you saying yeah you know a
tonight we are going to learn basically
what we're going to do is we're going to
fall back in love with ubuntu we've all
fallen out of love with a boon to where
we are going to fall back and love and
for those of you who are savvy with the
terms that is a pun so stick around
we're going to be learning all about it
gonna be a lot of fun tonight we've got
your viewer questions we've got lots
going on also our mobile site is
available to you cat five dot TV /
mobile cool or I am I have dyslexia
tonight I believe mobile dot cat5 TV
sorry about that folks I'm sorry knowing
me I probably set it up both ways just
so that I just in case I made that
mistake but mobile cap five DV or scan
that code with your QR scanner mm-hmm
built into your phone if you don't have
a QR scanner you can get one from your
device's App Store but that's a really
cool site and this week we actually
launched version 2.2 we introduced the
photo gallery the category 5 TV photo
gallery as well my blog can actually be
read directly in the mobile app oh no
effect awesome totally are sometimes you
can find out a little bit about what's
going on behind the scenes certainly the
photo gallery is something to get
excited about though know if you've
checked it out lately cat category five
dot TV head on over to our website and
what actually happens when you click on
photo gallery there is a link for our
flickr gallery which is who hosts our
photo gallery we have photos going all
the way back to season 10 season 2
season 3 season 4 and now season 5 so if
you want to check that out its category
5 TV and you'll get to check out some of
the past photos from category 5
that we're going to continually keep
that up to date for you as well last
cool stress they are you feeling
sentimental check it out yeah and it's
it's neat to kind of see how far we've
come even that with the set i was
looking at them the other day blowing
some more photos from I think season two
and just realizing that wow that's
that's how things used to look around
here it's wild we're growing we're
always movin and shakin always always
mm-hmm so and I encourage you to go to
our website category 5 TV few people
have have done so this week and in just
a few minutes we're going to be talking
we're going to be looking at your viewer
testimonials before we do that I
actually have a picture that came in to
us from our good friend Andrew Jameson
who's watching category 5 very excited
to now have the asus eee pad transformer
and what's so exciting about that well
it's a tablet but it is running Android
3.2 point one and Andrew sent in a photo
of him checking out our website and
while he's there he's of course also oh
there we go there it is well he's on our
website but he's watching it the show in
the YouTube player directly on the site
which is kind of cool because the
iDevices don't support youtube so
there's nothing there if you're on an
iDevice so that looks very cool now in
it I don't mean that I evidence support
flash pardon me I should correct myself
wow so that's cool but so that's 100
viewer points i think for Andrew tells
you have sent that in but I see an
opportunity to present Andrew with an
extra 35 viewer points what how can this
be this can be I don't know if you
notice in this photo but I do andrew is
strategically held his well he's
probably charging it directly from his
thermaltake level 10 snow edition
chassis check that out that's the same
chassis that you see in the intro of
category 5 team yeah that's really the
server that we use to broadcast our show
it's from thermaltake usa.com and
because andrew has has gone out and
purchased one of those and also has has
included that in his category 5 photo ID
again 135 points tonight hey your points
so congratulations Andrew thank you for
sending those in bacon and if you
like a ton of your points send us your
photos of you watching category 5 I do
tend to give bonuses if if you include
yourself or your kids in the photo
people watching the show if you include
something like a device that we that we
love here on the show and also we're
still we're looking for viewers to send
in their postcards oh yeah oh you but i
love getting real post i think because
we don't we don't generally get it again
that's true you don't get a lot of post
other than bills these days yeah so make
our day and and send us on some that is
not bill really nice you'll something
something from your hometown like a
postcard yeah your home and needs me to
see pictures of where you're from hmm
that that makes me smile so we're
working on putting together kind of a
postcard wall still trying to figure out
how to do it maybe laminate or something
yeah so that you can flip them over and
read both sides I'd be cool so if you
have any suggestions for us hey let us
know and anybody who is joining us for
the first time tonight please say hi to
Hillary in the chat room oh yeah my
buddy yes yes siree I'm just looking I
me too I just like Greg in Texas yes
when I say post I'm talking mail the
snail mail some may call it because in a
seemingly slower and archaic compared to
say I'm email yes indeed but we still
love it and there's just to make
something like really nice and special
and sentimental it like a tangible
handwritten letter mm-hmm it's just
beautiful you're gonna start getting
letters let's blame the mail bag every
every Tuesday me dear tillery another
one for Hillary one for Hillary that
would make my day I'm not gonna lie but
you just send them to Robbie to
something just include me and it's
always going to commit it's gonna say
dear Hillary and the bald guy or
something crazy like that oh the nerd no
I nerd somebody called me adorable once
I do recall that then you uh held on to
that little gem for a long time I gave
you a billion viewer points
for that one I'm billion speaking of
people sending us little kudos and
saying hello I'll I love to receive your
viewer testimonials Hillary's got some
to look at tonight but category 5 TV if
you head on over to our website you'll
be able to submit yours on the interact
menu and I encourage you to do that it
means a lot Steve those oh yeah got one
here from weapons of mass instruction
from northern Manitoba saying schweet I
found a link here yesterday while
scoping out some CC licensed music for
my AV classes might have been while I
was watching the WoW video for code
monkey to them and I got drawn in
watching the last episode this morning
now your bookmarked and I'll be stopping
by often great idea great show and I
can't wait to find the time to wander
through your archives I started sticking
my toes into linux a couple of years ago
but everything else got going on in my
life and some pretty solid resistance to
being able to try to installing it at
work and it really wrapped my head
around how it works I look forward to
picking up some new ideas and I'm going
to probably have some questions lots of
questions thank you for what you're
doing and from what I've seen you're
doing it well thank you thank you very
much yeah we love to hear from you got
another one here coming to us from Rome
asked curtain natus sorry from segment
wrong from Berlin Germany and he also
included a picture which is really cool
hi ravi i'm using a boon to for a couple
of weeks now found your site about two
weeks ago and downloaded some shows
great work i like it so much greetings
from germany sure sweet and what let's
just do one more this comes to us from
dan saying i learned how to use HTML in
two thousand but had no idea about
designing or using existing designs and
the category 5 web design series explain
that very well completing my
understanding so cool thank you thank
you for sending us that way yeah I love
that a feature of the show is has helped
to take you kinda to the next level with
with your knowledge and greets everybody
else realm asked as well
joining us from Germany and we
appreciate your viewer testimonials keep
them coming category 5 TV and you can
send one in on the interact menu mm-hmm
please do we will we will be right back
after this message from our sponsors
they're getting the road or the dusty
trails liquid image Canada captures the
action with a true point of view HD
video camera directly into a
high-quality amex goggle it records
every bit of the excitement exactly how
you see it
if my octane isn't your thing take a
relaxing underwater adventure and
capture it forever in high definition
video with a high quality underwater
camera mask from liquid image Canada
perfect for the enthusiast snorkeler or
the deep sea diver check out the entire
line of camera masks for every sport
liquid image canada.com this is category
5 technology TV you will find us online
triple w category 5 TV join us in the
chat room during the live show and of
course there are people including myself
and and some of the co-hosts kind of
mosey on in throughout the week so make
sure you check us out category 5 TV and
you'll find the chat room on the
interact menu mm-hmm and you can get
your questions in that way you can email
us live at category five dot TV you can
tweet us to tweet us at Robbie Ferguson
at Hillary rumble remember me I know
tonight's episode is brought to you in
part by of course eco alkalines
batteries at cat five dot TV / eco they
are the official batteries of category 5
technology TV and they power all of our
battery-operated devices check them out
cap five TV / eco and the fantastic
sound tonight of course is brought to
you by music pro in the south end of
berry you can visit them online cat5 TV
/ music pro and while they while they
don't have an online store I was talking
to them and they said you know I pick up
the phone give them a call at music pro
cat five dot TV / music pro for the info
they'll hook you up with instruments PA
systems whatever you need lighting
accessories for DJing anything at all
they've got it there if it's a
multimedia piano oh yeah everything
brilliant store but they'll ship to you
if you're in Canada or the US so do
check them out cat5 TV / music pro geez
eagle in the chat room says cool beans
and and it is cool beans everything we
do is your tagline so much so that I in
fact have a little something for you
tonight I could not find cool beans for
you but I did indeed find you a cool
bean oh it's a jumping bean and it has
it has amazed that you can you know put
that on your desk and holy that remember
very special moment look guys it's a
jumping bean it's jumping all over the
place it like races through whoa what
was it I saw recently where is Oh Idiot
Abroad idiot abroad with karl Pilkington
he was looking desperately for a jumping
bean in Mexico have one and he couldn't
find one called Mexican jumping beans
right so he is expected that he could
find one there and he didn't find one so
Carl if you're watching i'll send you a
Mexican jumping bean Thank You Robbie
thanks Sophie I just saw that I thought
that's hilarious that's hilarious a
special present are you all right all of
it and you know what else I love fewer
emails hmm we love your emails that's
how we communicate in a timely fashion
in the email the computer uh yeah would
you like to like to answer some
questions because I've got lots and are
you guys so thanks for sending them in
this question in particular comes to us
from drumstick hey y'all that is a
Georgia us greeting well how did do
wondering here's my question for Robbie
after upgrading to a boon to eleven
point 10 from 11 point oh four I decided
to reinstall 11.04 and since I had like
a slash home on a separate partition I
formatted and install 11.4 all is fine
except I cannot write files to my
external USB drive and get a no space
left error through the drive okay um
although the drive does matt sorry yep
there are still space on the USB Drive
this box is all Intel except for
graphics which are Nvidia and the hard
drives are Western Digital so where
should I look and what suggestions you
have to fix this hmm great show cool
staff
prizes oh dear b-e-a-utiful women and
great support what else would anyone be
doing where's the adorable host ah
garble co-host yeah he says thanks a lot
for your help so adorable host Ryan come
on make me feel good Robbie of you lost
weight thank you okay all right it
sounds to me like you've got a
permissions issue either on your mount
point or the drive itself okay you've
moved everything over perhaps you
recreated so you've reinstalled Ubuntu
but the permissions on that drive belong
to your old install so sounds to me like
it's strictly a permissions issue way
that you can tell that is to go into
your terminal and type this sudo su do
space nautilus nau TI l us and what
that's going to do you don't want to use
that to do much okay because that's
dangerous but it will tell you if you go
to that drive and you're able to create
folders and move things around it will
tell you that hey yeah you it's just a
permissions thing because by typing sudo
nautilus you're basically running
nautilus your file browser as a super
user the root user good guy saying hey
you can also use GK pseudo nautilus
that's if you want to hit alt f2 and you
don't want to have to go into the
terminal I said you know you can do it
either way but yeah alt f2 GK pseudo
nautilus or just go into terminal and
type sudo nautilus so if that's the case
Ryan which I think it is you're going to
find that you can now read and write to
that drive so you can do things and that
just confirms for us that it is a
permissions issue you don't want to do
anything with it because you don't want
to you don't want to damage anything on
your drive so what you would do is you
need to find out where the problem lies
if it's your mount point you need to
unmount the drive and you need to
perhaps you know if it's just you on the
computer try CH modding the mount point
to 777 so that everyone its world
writable and readable and executable so
you can now remount the drive to that
mount point and it should have
better permissions but if if it goes
further than that and the files
themselves are owned by a different user
because you may have changed your
username and credentials when you
reinstall the moon too so things have
changed as far as permissions go for
those files so it sounds to me like a
permissions issue do that check it out
CH own the files gadwal mentioning you
can CH own the entire folder so CH own
space dash are with a capital R for
recursive space whatever your name is if
it's Ryberg for example space and then
the the amount point that's mounted to
do it recursively or you can do it in
nautilus to determine what what the
issue is there Ryan and let us know but
that hopefully that points you kind of
in the right direction but it does sound
like a permissions thing just sounds
like the files and folders are owned by
the wrong user if you need to read those
files you can do it using that sudo
nautilus and move things around and do
all that if you need to but if you need
to actually regain access to the drive
so you come out to this home then you'll
need to you'll need to change the
permissions on those folders recursively
cool all right a Jameson warning yeah
you don't want to do a recursive chmod
of 777 because then you can damage some
of the access to certain files certainly
when it comes to programs and executive
roles and things like that you don't
want to do that this is his home folder
so most of it's going to be
configuration files and and documents
and pictures and things like that so you
should do okay but he sang drumstick
thanks adorable Robbie sounds like I'm
on the right track sounds like I love
you well there you have it winner winner
chicken dinner drumstick dinner his
name's drumstick in the chat room all
right Cheers I hope that helps yes and
at least again and points in the right
direction there you go cool moving
onward and upward got us another email
coming to us from Dan hey down saying
hello I wiped my 16 gig micro SD 10
point and install using DD and then
attempted to install from the minimal
ubuntu CD it keeps asking to download
items but i have no internet connection
this glue is unending and all options on
CD can provide the same result how can i
get a minimal install without an
internet connection Wow okay well that's
that's kind of a horse of a different
color last week dan was asking about
getting minimal install on his 16 gig
micro SD card I didn't realize you
didn't have an internet connection that
complicates things a little it sure does
I mean one of the one of I think the
amazing things about Linux and the way
Linux and installs the way Linux
configures itself on boot is that it
communicates with repositories they're
called servers on the Internet yeah and
make sure that everything's up to date
make sure that you have all of the tools
that you need in order to operate your
computer so with you not having an
internet connection you're trying to do
this install and it's a minimal install
so there's a lot lacking from the ISO
that needs to be obtained off of the
internet it can cause some problems yeah
one tool that's kind of cool if you know
the packages that you do need there's a
tool called apt on CD a pton CD let's
see if I can find it here apt on CD dot
sourceforge.net that's their website and
this tool allows you to basically
configure a CD that has those files for
apps so that you can set up a basically
a CD based repository so you can create
a CD that then becomes a repository for
your install so as long as you get the
right tools you know like if you need
for example your ex environment or
whatever it is that you need to get
without an internet connection it can be
challenging the easiest thing for you to
do because it's a microsd would be to
get ahold of an internet connection and
set it up on that connection and then
you're golden once its installed sure
you won't get your updates you won't get
the latest and greatest versions of you
know an office or libre office whatever
you choose to run they won't come to you
automatically as they do to internet
connected users
at least you can get that install set up
on that micro SD card and then you take
that card home or wherever it is that
you're operating without internet and it
would be great and make copies of it so
that you can use it on your other
computers without having to have an
internet connection brilliant thing
about linux is that you can make copies
not only will they work across multiple
types of hardware in most cases because
generally speaking is going to detect
new hardware and changes in hardware
when you boot but also heard me it's
legal you're allowed to do that in fact
you're encouraged to do that so in a
case like Linux you know you can create
your own drive and then make copies so
that you can use it on other computers
and you're happy so easiest case
scenario is for you to get ahold of an
internet connection down create that
thing with internet access that's going
to just make your life so much easier
honestly and if you can just you know
spend an afternoon getting it set up
exactly the way you want with internet
then you're not going to have any
troubles and then you go back to where
it is that you have no internet you've
already got it created configured
everything's there you don't have to be
back and forth all the time but either
way you're going to need the internet
even to use apt on CD you've got to have
access to those repositories initially
so I think that's you know you might as
well just build it with an internet
connection and then go from there and
then take it to a non connected
environment cool makes sense I'd be
interested to know Dan well like what
what it is that is causing him to set
this up with no internet connection yeah
like just of interest you know because I
kind of picture our world is being very
connected these days like I can't walk a
few blocks without having Wi-Fi internet
access available to any free so so you
know where are you from or is there
something else that's keeping you from
having internet access to be able to do
this but I think you'll be able to find
it anyways so thank you very much for
the question then mmm thank you looks
like we've got time for one more quick
question I think fantastic this comes to
us from Katherine McCleary hey Katherine
the AMD a-series LAN low ap use have
been out for several months now and
there are several pcs available to buy
which use them how do they compare to
core i3 57 sandy bridge cpus for cheap
skate pc gamers like myself and my team
daughter her old pc legs terribly when
playing dragon age origins and i can't
play anything newer i play some civ 5
but mostly older games especially be a
dosbox right okay sounds so i have a
feeling that I pretty much any modern
architecture CPU is going to do just
great for you I mean you're dealing with
stuff that is very minimal as far as its
requirements as far as the question
about AMD vs intel and things i think
that gap is really being bridged between
the two companies because while Intel
was really pushing for the apu with the
the integrated processor with the
graphics and everything AMD was still
very focused on the ax 86 architecture
and just later the i386 i should say
really focused on application launch
times things that these days is really
not as important as really good
performance in games and multimedia rich
applications being able to watch blu-ray
movies and things so their focus is kind
of shifted with the lenna is it leno i
think they're called there some hand
lanolin the a series anyways those
processors are really shifting the gears
for AMD because they're finally entering
kind of basically exiting that realm
where where they were where they were
kind of trapped in this architecture
from the late 80s and now they're you
know they've been doing well with that
but now they're moving into more
multimedia rich really game driven
multimedia driven and very decent
graphics cards integrated in the chip so
the advantage of the a series is that
it's going to be lower power consumption
it's going to require a little bit less
power it but it's going to be a little
bit slower than the Intel but will that
matter to you because here's the thing
it's very much less expensive ok so in
your environment because you're gaming I
think it would do just fine I think you
do just fine with anything really that's
that's reasonably new i prefer intel
because i'm a pretty you know I dry I
drive these things to the to the ground
and I push them really hard but for what
you're doing I think you do just fine
with finding a decent system that you
know is a good price point for you that
has a half-decent processor sounds like
you know enough about these things to
know that yeah this is the better end of
the the AMD series as far as multimedia
goes right but they're cheap because
they are low end processors if you will
so so that's a cat you know this is just
kind of making a wise decision what I
would do though is price out price out
to processors in the same price range so
AMD vs intel say it's 200 bucks these
two processors of the the same price how
do they compare now get on the internet
get on the google and say okay here's
the AMD processor vs here's the intel
processor we already know that okay from
your research that these are about the
same price and they're within your price
point so now get the benchmarks and see
which one's going to perform better
because somebody out there on the
internet almost guarantee ax has already
tested those processors against each
other and at the very least there will
be forums of people who say you know
here's the advantages to those specific
processors a jamison just reiterating
damn these good for budget systems if
you want to if you want to go hog-wild
with power and use a super amount of
power then go Intel so true but a game
that gap is kind of being bridged
because AMD is creating better
processors with that a series so you you
could get away with that pretty well and
save some money but go Intel they don't
pay me to say that well there you have
it cool mm-hmm now somebody was in the
chat room there just before we jump into
the news yep I'm sorry there was a
statement with regards to the previous
question I didn't want to miss it I hope
I can catch it was it a gamoto fill me
in real quick I'm looking not seeing it
I'm seeing a conversation about
starbucks there's Lana
fun place to be if you're if you're here
alive get into the chat room it's a lot
of fun and our websites category 5 TV is
the front end hub for all that stuff
about installing a link USR slash bin
slash G case you do know that's far
that's too far back oh oh here we go all
over the map agra moto thank you at 724
and 33 seconds talking about the the
distribution and minimal install and and
having to use the internet to get
updates this was Dan's question Dan a
gamoto says maybe this isn't what you're
looking for but would this not be a good
case for the DVD install version of
ubuntu know which is an interesting
point because now when Dan said a gamoto
that that he's using the in the
minimalist install of course I'm
thinking okay minimal we gotta build
upon that but the DVD version comes with
pretty much everything so you can
install it without the repositories and
then you can strip it down you can pull
stuff out it's not gonna it's not gonna
be anywhere is as clean as the minimal
because if you're trying to get away
from the gnome desktop or whatever then
you're going to have problems but just a
suggestion there that came in the
chatroom dan and I thought that that was
worth mentioning as well just if you are
stuck without internet then that's an
option for you as well that's good
suggestion and that's why we keep you
around chat room you're full of great
ideas and they're just such a fun bunch
yeah that's just the best mm-hmm oh you
ready for the news yeah take her away
here are the top stories from the
category 5 TV news room China has
revealed its newest supercomputer and
even though it's unlikely to crack the
world top
and something about this super computer
has astonished the tech community it is
power neither by intel or AMD processors
revealed last week at a conference in
japan japan jinan china and profiled in
the New York Times the sun light blue
light MPP super computer uses a chip
designed by the chinese themselves and
it's not the chinese micro process or
the supercomputing can the
supercomputing community was expecting
in other words the chinese are
developing to micro processors that
could shift not only bragging rights in
the worldwide super computer game but
the general market for server chips jack
dongarra the university of tennessee
professor who oversees the annual list
of the top 500 supercomputers told wired
that this shows that there is a
significant effort underway in china to
build multi-core processors that can be
put into the world's fastest computers
he cautions us not to think of this
development strictly in terms of
supercomputing saying there is a low-end
that where these chips sorry there's a
low-end that where these chips can work
you can imagine these chips replacing
all the Intel chips in China neither
intel or AMD have commented as a bit of
fun yesterday for Halloween onstar
offered its users a monster Dodger
service Terry inch director at OnStar
said how is a fun holiday and our new
monster Dodger service reflects that
this year in addition to OnStar
providing help to subscribers who need
directions to the closest costume shop
or convenience store to pick up candy we
are offering families an entertaining
button push opportunity subscribers
looking for a Halloween treat yesterday
could push their blue on star button and
ask for the location of the nearest
monster and then dodge the potential
encounter fun for the kids and brought a
light-hearted mood to the emergency
service no Hillary yeah I mean that
sounds cute and all fun and games yes
but but I don't want to find a monster
why am i picturing a poor little
four-year-old or five year old sit in
the back seat as OnStar says don't turn
left there's a monster down and the poor
kids like
seriously scared out of their mind
because it's so realistic it's like the
movies it's like this is OnStar don't
turn left there's a monster there that's
kind of crazy every stop the kids are
never gonna go down that Street again
they'll be like no oh yeah don't go
towards Billy's house there's a witch in
the force or there oh yeah get her now
petrified of their towns petrified oh
boy Sweden has suffered its worst ever
data leak after an anonymous hacker
hijack the Twitter accounts of the
prominent MP and release details of more
than 90,000 private email accounts the
hacker struck last week one he disclosed
the password and email details of
several Swedish political journalists
the identities the identities the
hackers identity remains unknown his
online name though is SC 3 a 5 j so stay
away from him in an interview with
express a newspaper he said he had
masterminded the biggest internet breach
in Sweden's history to remind people to
change their passwords more often he
said I'd up this information to let
people know that they handle their
information wrongly many web pages are
not up to scratch and consumers need to
know they should never use the same
passwords for different services on the
web heey goes on to say this is how he
got in a Twitter accounts as well well I
thank you for that yeah be wearing yikes
canonical plans to expand its a boon to
linux distribution so it could be used
on smartphones tablets and other touch
interface consumer electronics said
canonical founder Mark Shuttleworth
referring to the average user shuttler
said computers users are starting to do
their computing across a broad array of
despite the new devices a broader array
of devices and form factors he also goes
on to state that canonical wants to
bring a boon to to all personal
computing form factors on phones tablets
and smart screens right now Shuttleworth
is at the ubuntu developer summit in
orlando
this conference he is hoping to raise
enthusiasm on the part of volunteer
developers who canonical will need to
help develop the platform and provide
applications for the expanding OS
Shuttleworth has effectively answered
that Canonical's controversial move to
the unity interface was done in part
because unity would be better suited to
work across different platforms
particularly those relying on
touchscreen interfaces you can get these
full stories online at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category 5 bikini newsroom
is researched by roy w not with
contributions from our super awesome
community of viewers you have a new
story you think's worthy of honorary
mention send us an email at newsroom at
category 5 TV from the category 50 TV
news room I'm Hillary Rumble I should
just say very special thanks to Dan who
contributed to the newsroom well Q and
yeah really nice to be receiving your
emails and your thoughts with regards to
what we should be talking about in the
news terrific tonight the show is
brought to you in part by pogoplug and
you'll find them online cap five dot TV
/ pogoplug check out that awesome device
also playing a Calypso cat5 TV / Calypso
fun online game you can download the
free application right there on the
website cap five dot TV / Calypso this
is category 5 technology TV you'll find
us online triple w category five dot TV
i'm your host Robbie Ferguson I'm
Hillary rumble Hillary I don't know if i
have mentioned it to you before but I
kind of saw that coming with the boom to
and canonical did you just that drive
with ever since I've you know they've
introduced unity and taken over with
unity it's really felt touchscreen ish
oh yes I do remember you saying that
data interface looks very is not it's
like total design for this yeah totally
I do remember saying that yes but the
problem with that is it feels really
awkward to me as a mouse user you're
like I just want to poke my screen not
yeah I know but it just it wouldn't it
wouldn't be comfortable it wouldn't work
even if I had a touch screen now there
are some nice devices out there I think
in particular there's the HP TouchSmart
for example right and just thinking
touchsmart I'm just gonna do a quick
search yeah the reason I'm thinking
about this particular device is a gap
what was mentioning in the chat room
that it just isn't practical because of
the the form factor of these things but
they're their device actually lays right
down so it almost becomes a desktop
style screen right yeah you're touching
one on here so then i can see that
working but then you're taking up this
huge footprint on your desk right versus
a mouse or in my case I use a trackball
so I only I literally ante at footprint
on my desk so it doesn't make a lot of
sense for me I don't want a touch screen
interface yeah don't like it don't want
it I don't have the device for it but
the canonical has announced Mark
Shuttleworth that at the ubuntu
developer summit today and yesterday had
mentioned that that they are indeed
pushing toward mobile devices but I
don't have that so tonight we're going
to fall back in love with ubuntu and
make it work for our mouse okay for our
desktop computer the way that you expect
it to the way that you want it to when
you're using your computer because I
don't know about you but that's what I
use I mean I love my my mobile device to
I want to see a boon to on my mobile
device I would love to see lubuntu on my
tablet but I don't want the tablet
interface on my desktop fair enough fair
enough so i have ubuntu 11.10 see right
out of the box I've got a boon to and a
boon to 2d alright so let's log in with
a recently changed password with a
recently changed password thank you to
avoid here comes so you're gonna see
exactly what I'm saying there we go ok
so imagine okay yeah I'm going to be
able to reach up with my finger and
touch all these buttons here it's got a
real as I've talked about it on the show
before it's designed for touch screen
and it's obvious that it does
mind for touchscreen big bold buttons
which is fine but it's not designed to
be used by somebody who's using a mouse
so what I'm going to do is I'm going to
jump into my terminal because tonight
what I'm actually going to do I want to
I want to walk you through the steps now
of course the next version of perfect
boom 2 is going to actually do all this
for you there's going to be a little
toggle switch that allows you to
basically convert 11 point 10 into a
gnome to style desktop based on an older
version of the boon to but what I want
to do is I want to show you exactly how
this is done and what it is that we're
actually doing yeah dad will were not
indeed switching to Nome two point three
point two or 2.32 we want to actually
stay with gnome 3 we're not going to
downgrade your computer instead we're
going to make your computer compatible
with this interface okay we're not going
to use gnome shell we're not going to do
any of that stuff so here I am in the
terminal okay on my brand new out of the
box i haven't touched anything it's just
it's got its updates and that's it this
is a boon to 11 point so I'm going to go
first of all sudo hmm oh I do have mouse
or a keyboard there we go just a little
slow
hello sudo apt-get update is the first
thing you want to run that's going to
get your up-to-date repository
information enter your password as
necessary there we go it's gone through
my updates it's going to get those off
the internet for me okay so the first
thing that I want to do is I want to get
the ability to take kubuntu back to a
gnome to style interface now in order to
do that I'm going to use session fall
back so that's where the fall back comes
in session fall back is going to allow
us basically to flip that switch when we
first turn on our computer it turns into
a session so and it's actually what's
what you're going to recognize if you
are installing gnome shell similar kind
of thing but we're going to do this with
as minimal you know amount of stuff as
possible when I type it seems to be
taking a moment to get in there you are
faster than the computer there we go
yeah I don't know what that's about okay
so sudo apt-get the dash install and
then gnome session there should be a
dash there let's fix it there we go okay
so you can see that now sudo apt-get
install gnome session fall back all
right nice and simple this is going to
give us about 40 Meg's worth of stuff
and once that's in we're going to be
able to switch our session over to gnome
classic without having to install
Lubuntu shell or gnome shell pardon me
there we go 40.2 megs of additional
stuff you'll notice that we are we're
going to get the ala carte menu editor
as well as a couple of other things but
we're not getting the full out
gnome-shell it's going to be really
quite minimalist and it's only 40 point
to Meg's so we're going to say yes to
that we're going to let that go and
again it's actually installing all this
stuff Hilary right off yeah the Internet
I don't need
risks this is where it really comes in
handy to have that high-speed internet
connection right so this is going to go
through and get all that stuff for us
it's pretty good pretty good moving
pretty pretty good speed this is
category 5 technology TV and you'll find
us online at category five dot TV we
welcome your questions and your
questions are what direct the show's
content category 5 you can email us live
at category five dot TV please send me
emails excited reading them any co-host
us but I'm just saying to do it just do
it all right that's coming along get
them the panel applet this is alive this
is happening in real time yes see
exactly pardon me exactly how long this
takes and how to go about doing it there
we go it is done yeah it's a deferred
some processing there we go okay so now
let's simply log out of our computer
click on the the gear up at the top left
I think I'm probably working this thing
to death I'll figure that out
I'm just going to close that see if that
makes any difference there you go okay
click on the gear and then go log out
are you sure you want to close all
programs and log out of the computer i'm
going to say yeah login i'm pretty sure
yeah that's what we want to do here we
go alright so now you're going to see
that if we click here we have known
classic that's what that gave us so
switch it okay so i've switched that to
gnome classic we're no longer selecting
lubuntu right all right enter your
password and hit enter and here we go so
this is step one this is going to get us
to that kind of classic style lubuntu
desktop okay and remember we didn't have
to install gnome shell here ok now we're
going to go up to our name click on it
and go system settings once we're in
there we're going to go into appearance
and now this is a little bit of a
workaround what I'm going to do is I'm
going to change my theme down at the
bottom here okay change it from ambience
to radians and that's going to get rid
of the black and just turn it to a nice
kind of gradient rice okay so that works
okay i'm going to close out of that now
going to go back into terminal cuz we're
going to learn the terminal tonight okay
there's two things left that i want to
install so i'm going to go sudo apt-get
install you're going to love this human
dash seem ok I'm going to do this on
Tula on one line so we can install the
theme and I'm going to install g comp
dash editor ok so we're going to get
that original human theme from a boon to
and we're gonna get the g comp editor so
that we can edit our G configuration
there you go this is going to give us
for megs of data all right much better
response time now I much prefer the
human beam to the zombie theme yeah you
know something about zombies their theme
ambience kind of feel zombie ish with
all the darkness yes so it's done all
right beauty so that's done and done so
what I want to do is now i'm going to
type the words g comp dash editor ok so
now this is my configuration editor i'm
going to go into apps and then we want
to find Matassa tea or metacity
hello that's telling me see this is
what's neat about when you run something
through the terminal so you can see the
actual errors yeah and it says that
there is a problem their index value too
large just in case i'm going to log out
and then log back in because i haven't
done that since installing the theme and
g comp config not having to reboot the
whole computer you'll notice that gnome
classic is now set as my default so i'm
always going to get that g Siegel thinks
that I like to live on the wild side I
would agree yeah definitely if you'd
like if you want to use the inner add
the GUI at this point you can just go
down the system tools configuration
editor there we go alright a logout and
login did it for us and I've brought up
apps Matassa t Windows users you'll
recognize this it looks very much like a
registry okay so here's what we want to
do scroll down and you'll see one called
theme all right I can double click on
the word radiance remember we changed it
to radians well that's good because now
GDK theme is set to radians but now we
want our Matassa t theme set to human
with an uppercase h if i hit enter see
what happened oh it looks very much like
the original Ubuntu human theme i see so
now there's one thing that's that's left
to do here and that's these bad boys so
scroll up a little ways okay and you see
button layout double click on the value
of the right and we want to change that
order so first of all we want to put the
colon which is the the name of the
program and then these are going to be
relational to that so I'm going to
highlight the word close and cut it and
I'm going to paste that at the end but
I'm going to add a comma after maximize
all right hmm so now and now I've got to
delete that last colon because that's
where it was okay so now it looks like
colon min
mais maximize clothes when i hit enter
ah okay I've moved those now you'll see
that there's one other thing missing
from the top left hand side okay so
before that colon I'm going to add the
word menu okay and hit enter and you'll
see that now I have oh sweet your
standard menu just as you would have
okay so now the final button layout says
menu colon minimize comma maximize comma
close full stop no period okay so that's
all there is to that now final step is
basically okay we've got the theme we've
got all that working let's just kind of
finalize it we're going to do that with
something that's already included with
11.04 Lubuntu we're going to go straight
to another orange theme grab those
leaves close out of that and now if you
bring up your Nautilus window you'll see
this feels much more like home much more
like the old style of them too much more
like you know gnome too but yet we're
still looking at gnome 3 believe it or
not we're still looking at ubuntu 11.10
have access to a boon to software center
you still have the ability to install
the applications that you can get on a
boon to 11 point 10 with unity just that
you're not trapped into that unity
interface you now have a much more
familiar interface couple of things are
a little bit different you'll see that
the clock is centered up here that can
be moved you'll see that system settings
is still on my name and shut down logout
and restart is under shut down as well
when you reboot your computer everything
is going to remain everything is hard
set now and you're not going to lose
those settings if you reboot so that is
now your interface you can go onto the
internet find yourself a great wallpaper
a desktop wallpaper good place to start
is Nome dash look dot org and there you
will find some gtk licensed
desktop wallpapers and themes and things
like that so that's just to get you
started making them boon to 11 point 10
feel a little bit more like the old
style of boon to and that's what's going
to help you to fall back in love with
boom to with 11 point 10 mm kick it at
old school old school old school love
indeed this is category 5 technology TV
you'll find us online at triple w
category five dot TV just a couple of
minutes left if you can believe right at
the end of show how I'm fun I tell ya
yeah any questions for us in the chat
room hey hey yeah let us know quicktime
if you got anything to say you know did
he dress up yesterday did i yes I was
the queen of hearts the queen of hearts
you she hasn't seen last week's show
people I didn't but I did I check out
the website i did see some pics of the
costumes which I liked yes I really
enjoyed she still doesn't know she still
doesn't know watch episode why teams
just tell me well you said you were the
queen of hearts but on last week's show
what was I haha free shop let's go to
the category five dots yeah cuz you go
to photo gallery what sort of fun things
are online Robbie's always always doing
these fun little these little updates
all the time we don't know what's
happening so the only way you can stay
connected is by checking it out all the
time oh my lanta is I ever funny for
that awesome and you just happen to be
the queen of hearts what are the odds oh
I Wow Erica awesome yeah we had a lot of
fun I am nicer Chris I know trick or
treating ya he was captain Zach and I
was commander daddy oh my god cute
thought I was very much as Spock and and
if I could count the number of people
who said oh look at you little guy star
wars and you're like that's I threw out
the candy from that house this is poison
poison
just place filled with just terrible
things unbelievable a couple people got
it though some people were like they
thought it was the coolest one guy I
mean look at me people look at me and
one guy walked up to me said dude you
even got the haircut for it you're like
yeah I just kind of say that that walked
away I went into I went into a fast-food
restaurant cuz I I got off work and I
zip right home got the kids and we went
out I got dressed and went out I didn't
get dinner until 830-9 so I starvin just
figured I'd pick up something quick so I
just I didn't do the drive-thru I don't
know I'm dressed up i'm gonna got it you
know this thing is like am I didn't wear
it to work because it just didn't it
didn't work with the the yeah this year
well I would have been the only one
dressed up and everyone would have been
laughing and cheering it would have been
like high school so I just figured I'd
avoid that whole situation so but it was
kind of neat to be driving around as
Spock and people actually thought it was
cool instead of dorky oh yeah I went
into this fast food place and they just
they thought it was a riot like that's
not everybody coming out from the
kitchen and stuff and come to see me can
you do the Vulcan hand thing that's so
cool and they're trying and they're like
yeah so that was the joy of I like that
I admire your boldness to know boldness
would begin their on November 15th
through true i guess july you know just
in the part of july just we're gonna get
n two eras aren't I i double-dog dare
you while in the similar vein um Trek
eNOS there was an email that came in not
exactly um good question but a photo oh
yeah sent into us from leland saying a
captain and Spock where's the Wirecast
Enterprise bridge tell Scotty not to
beam us up until after they bring us our
dinner and here is the photo from let's
see if I can pull this up our viewer
Leland I haven't seen this yet Leyland
oh the road
surprise surprise okay I'm gonna save
this to my desktop oh well check it out
like I'm gonna Leland a little bit of
your point well just gotta sound knows
his way yeah there we are so what's the
what's the description of this this says
again a captain and Spock where is the
Wirecast Enterprise bridge tell Scotty
not to beam us up until after they bring
us our dinner there we go thanks Leland
yeah that would be fun we haven't done
much green screening we've been doing
some testing I did a stress test over
the weekend and thank you to those of
you who participated basically we took
the new server and we said okay well how
much can we really push through this
thing we did green screen and it was
phenomenal like everyone performed so
well I think it's going to be possible
and and so maybe there is a chance
Leland that we will see some green
screening during the live broadcast cuz
Wirecast is fully capable of that really
what it comes down to is how good is our
lighting so we might need to get some
lighting for the backdrop if we wanted a
new green screen and also how good is
the camera as you can tell the
wide-angle camera that we're using its
1080p but the I don't know if is the
lens or what it is but it's not as
crystal clear as here we've got a 720p
camera that is just it's just so sharp
and beautiful and you know it's just
getting to that point where we have
cameras that are that sharp and
unfortunately you know the big cameras
like the professional cameras they run
into the tens 20s 30s thousands so
they're very pricey I don't see us doing
that anytime just right away but but one
day season 15 will get there oh yeah we
do well with what we have and we've
refined everybody's support and it's
been it's been tons of fun i'm so
excited that season five is here and
we're doing well i know having a fun
time fabulous yeah and we're just gonna
get better and better every season
always improving always new things
coming it's great yeah
what's going on the chat room dad will
like cat will got a teenage mutant ninja
turtles snuggly like I'm talking moo moo
here and and we put him on green screen
and it was it was amazing his whole body
disappeared but here's what was cool i
said to God well you have green eyes
don't you and he's like why yeah I do
and he had two holes in his head oh
that's it and you could see the scene
behind him a turkey it was pretty
awesome but it makes you think okay well
what happens if you're doing green
screening and you have something set
with green eyes because it was it was
guy obviously gap what will tell you
that it was it was very obvious but
we'll definitely find some screen grabs
at some point of that yeah definitely
grab those because those up hilarious
yeah I never would have thought I'd pick
up on all right guys like that
sensitivity yeah boy that's wild
apparently God will has changed his
avatar on the website tall from that
encounter screen so if you have a link
to your profile gadwal that i can bring
up real quick we've only got 30 seconds
left on the show we'd love to check it
out but i'll be happy little somethin
somethin mm-hmm it's kind of funny
actually I'm impressed with that
surprising everybody have fun this week
learn lots we hope so if if you send a
question and didn't hear from us please
let us know but we do try to attend to
all your questions in a timely fashion
mmm but live at category five dot TV
that's where the party's at people
Michael Iowa joining us again tonight
Cameron Greg and Texas agamotto nice to
see you the old gang drumstick of course
yeah zit 1965 good to see ya AAS 759
cheers and and some reminders to write
us letters minus letters yeah send us
your send us here at write postcards
you'll post in the mail the post will
check it and brilliant leaks by timing
yet to receive your post cool i may not
be I'd be awesomes what is really
oh yeah well um got a little something
to show people I'm working on it yeah
some Joker made it so that you had to
log in in order to Oh your profiles Oh
Robbie unbelievable security great
security and there he is Oh II oh but
he's got his sunglasses on oh but that's
part of what you can see our stars okay
behind his his memory boo boo brilliant
all right well thanks God well thanks
everybody have a wonderful wonderful
week so nice having you here nice to see
ya and we'll talk to you next Tuesday
night seven o'clock high good night
