hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Jen and I'm Carrie and on today's
show we're talking about life in the
desert just keep going just keep going
stay tuned
and welcome back to new everyday so on
today's adventure we explored the desert
in Death Valley California try 10 right
and we spent some time in something
called mosaic Canyon which we were told
by our tour guide our Ranger I keep
wanting to comment or guide but he
certainly was he's a park ranger karke
ranger and he said go check out mosaic
Canyon and so we did and we went in and
it was really like bumpy bumpy road it
took us it was like to it said 2.5 miles
but it took us 20 minutes on that road
so it's just so like jittery and so we
get in there we get our stuff and it was
like started off very beautiful was nice
and we're like okay this is good and
then as we got and got actually very
difficult for I'd say well there's some
climbing he had to climb up over some
raw ball it's slippery marble probably
about two feet high but there was no
places to step and if you had issues
with mobility and it looked quite
difficult and it was interesting because
we got through it no problem because
we're fairly fits and active and
but then there's some other people
behind us that were a little bit older
or maybe a lot older I like a good 30
years old all right a lot older and and
they were actually struggling with
getting up over these these marble
barriers and a couple was coming back
and they said don't worry this is the
toughest part just keep going like after
this it just widens right out and
becomes wonderful walking area and and
so I found that was really encouraging
to them well then we found out like we
kept walking and it was beautiful
beautiful so little tiny tracks he could
walk on up a big like dune almost and
you can look over into a canyon it was
just incredible totally worth the effort
to get there and so we kind of had a
role reversal on our way back a gin yes
we started encouraging the people who
were stopped and really considering
whether or not to keep going we said no
you've got to keep going get through
this part and it's going to be amazing
and well worth the effort yes and one
couple there right at the very beginning
and and it's very flat the beating so it
can be very deceiving at the beginning
it's very flat and you just go through
this Canyon is beautiful and so I said
to them just so you know it's it's
beautiful here but a little bit around
the corner you can't see it gets
difficult and there's like about two
foot high marble slabs that you have to
climb over but it's so worth it just to
keep going and he said well how
difficult like this kind of difficult
and it was just like shale rock that you
were walking over which really wasn't
difficult I would say was quite easy
I said no no like you got to do a little
bit of climbing but it's well worth it
on the other side because we walked
through these wonderful like polished
marble canyons and we were able as Kerry
said to walk along some tops of cliffs
almost and look down and it was so worth
it but if we had given up I've seen it
we never would have seen it so we kind
of reflected on how like it in our lives
there are certain people who were
represented by the people we encountered
on our way into the canyon so maybe
there are some people in your life who
they don't want to go with you that
extra mile they say you know what let's
just turn around let's save time let's
not put the effort in or it looks too
dangerous let's just let's pack it in
and I know that there have been people
you know in my life that way
who weren't exactly the most encouraging
and on the flip side there have been
those people who have been right there
with me woof said I've been there ahead
of you I know it get I know it's hard it
gets better carry on you can do it yeah
just just keep going and we need those
people in our lives and and I guess you
know I stroke because we're told to love
everyone we're told to love everyone
even I want to say the debbie downer's
even though I have a couple Debbie's in
my life and they are not Downers
whatsoever but they can be termed with
that way debbie downer's where they're
just like start anyway and I don't know
but it's like that are just negative
about everything negative no you can't
do that no that's too hard you're going
to fail like don't even do that and they
don't see the possibilities where n it's
like they still need to be loved and
they still need to be encouraged and
that's possible that sometimes in their
life that they might have just been
discouraged and they were never
encouraged they were always taught to
see the negative side of things and I'm
just going to turn the camera a little
bit so you
see the road that we're going down maybe
you can't maybe can
and that's so sad you're going to get
the rearview mirror look behind this
phone carries perspective and you'll get
to see mary went but it's beautiful just
Google Death Valley anyways
but maybe they've been discouraged in
their own life and so it's like okay
what is my responsibility then in
bringing them up and I was saying to
carry as we were walking out it totally
reminded me of in pilgrims progress in
the slough of despond where Christian is
coming out from the city and somebody
comes he chases after him and he says
well let me walk with you and Christian
fully welcomes him to journey with him
well they get to the slough of despond
where it said then all of the Yak of the
world is pours in all the worries and
cares and Happiness just pours right in
and and Christian gets stuck there and
this other man I can remember what his
name is also gets stuck there with
Christian and he turns to Christian and
he says if this is what this journey is
all about well then I want nothing to do
with it and he actually found it quite
easy then to turn around and Christian
he did not want to turn around and yet
he could not get out of the slough of
despond without help somebody actually
came along and help Christian he pulled
him out and so
and being encouraging isn't about not
being a realist exactly thank you cuz
you know people sometimes have I don't
want to say made fun of but kind of
giving me a hard time about seeing the
world with rose-colored glasses mm-hmm
especially when a situation seems tough
but it I don't have a positive attitude
because I don't realize what's going on
but some right misinterpret it no way
right and I use sometimes I haven't been
the most clear and saying no I actually
actually get what's going on here but
here's the hope in the situation right
like where's the hope it's not saying
it's not saying oh that didn't happen or
that wasn't terrible that's not what it
is at all you can actually admit this is
hard this sucks this didn't go the way I
wanted to but we're going to move on
this is what I learn from this situation
and we we stopped at a general store in
the middle of the desert and it seems
that we found these bookmarks and
sayings
that it was like advice from the desert
here it is a little bit and it seems
that the desert kind of brings out the
issue of perseverance the issue of
patience the issue of planning ahead all
these different things that you need to
consider when you're going through the
desert so what does it say done I'll let
me just read this a little bit to you it
says advice from Death Valley find
beauty in unexpected places conserve
your resources which is interesting it's
like conserve your resources use your
resources just be careful how you use
them which is was very interesting
embrace change travel life's peaks and
valleys it was very interesting while we
were in the mosaic Canyon there is this
one trail that I kept saying to carry
that would be so cool it'd be so cool to
climb up but we just simply didn't have
time because we had other things that we
wanted
to do and it was just one of those
moments where it's like you have to make
choices you just have to make choices
and then stick with it and go with it so
embrace change trout travel life's peaks
and valleys don't forget your friends
I'm glad about that and that happened so
many times because what would happen is
my legs are quite sore actually from all
of the hiking that we've been doing and
Kari will wait for me and she'll turn
around she'll grab my hand or she'll say
don't me to hold your bag and I make
myself sound like a really old crotchety
woman she wasn't really my own but some
kind of hurts wait so kind of her time
waits for me and so it's like okay like
who are some of those friends that you
need to actually maybe be waiting for
like instead of just plowing ahead like
do you need to be waiting for some
friends like are you the type to just
keep moving forward and not even turn
around and see who's with you and like
it's like we
we need to be mindful of where our
friends are at be patient through dry
spells and show your true grit
yes which I who's the author for that
the author for that is ooh
I lan island mm-hmm island saamir saamir
probably been through the desert
probably has been through the desert
and yeah it was just so interesting as
we walked through there and we walked
along this one edge and it was
interesting because we've said this now
a couple times it's always easier on the
way up yeah it's always easier on the
way up and we were walking along this
one one edge and we were like we don't
tell these things to our parents until
you know after the fact but basically it
was like like this and we were walking
along the top and carries like don't
look down don't look down I like okay
and we got there because we wanted just
to do the experience and that's why this
thing when it said you know travel
life's peaks and valleys we wanted to
see what was up there we wanted to try
it out and we did it at her own pace we
certainly did race up there but once we
got up there and we started to turn we
turned around I said to carry Oh
it's windy up here
be careful yeah
and
when we go through life's deserts and
valleys that's when the Lord says that
he will be with us he promises to be
with us
he guides us
I think it psalm 63 says that he leads
us in the daytime with his loving
kindness and at night time he his song
is over
maybe we can look that one up Jen but
he probably promises to be with us
and we can trust him because of his
character that when we've experienced
him
in the lush parts of our life we know
then that he's going to be with us and
the does
and to provide for us
and as we're going through the desert I
mean right now it's kind of cold so we
like sleeping in this camper van cold
man it is there's no heater and we're in
the desert you think it's going to be so
hot it's not hot yes old because this is
their winter
it's dry it's cold
which is very interesting because as we
were talking about life in the desert in
a couple of shows here and we never
would have thought that there was life
in the desert and
and the fact that we see like how
everything is adapted to being here
like hearing about the bushes and the
trees and
I just I'm amazed at how God has
provided beauty in the desert and it's
just it's one of those things that has
been going over in my mind a lot
actually because we struggle with what
goes on in the desert like in the desert
at times of our lives we just struggle
so much more like God are you even there
and are you listening and and yet if
I want to say if we are wise or if we
were willing we would actually say Lord
show me your beauty yeah and and as the
psalm says and this is Psalm 63 it says
I have seen you in this sanctuary and
beheld your power in your glory because
your love is better than life my lips
will glorify you I'll praise you as long
as I live and in your name I will lift
up my hands my soul will be satisfied as
with riches of foods that he's saying
like that first part oh god you are my
god earnestly icq my soul thirsts for
you my body longs for you in a dry and
weary land where there is no water but
he is saying my I'm dry I am dry okay as
we go past this thing you got to check
this out through the back window can you
see that yeah that's cool eh you guys
are getting rear view mirror here but
you're going through a dry time and he
said but I have seen you in the
sanctuary mm-hmm so he has experienced
God
22 more miles for doing well well
stocked kilometers not mile not
kilometers got it miles so he spent his
spend time with the Lord he has seen he
has experienced the goodness of God and
it's that goodness of god that is
carrying him through so even though he's
going through a dry spell he's like I
will choose to glorify in the Lord I
will choose to glorify nor so it doesn't
matter that it's a dry spell he is
choosing to see the beauty he's choosing
to look around he's choosing to keep
moving forward he's choosing not to get
discouraged he said I will because your
love is better than life my lips will
glorify you I will praise you as long as
I live my soul will be satisfied as with
the riches of food
I just think like he's making a choice
to serve the Lord in spite of the
darkness dryness in the valley and can
you just read the first verse again
person second verse oh god you are my
weary land where there is no water you
know to find interesting about that his
soul is thirsty but his body is longing
his actual soul is spiritual self is
thirsting and the body is longing
like when I asked when I'm going through
a hard time or if having a harder day
what am I really thirsting for thirsting
for to get through this i'm wanting to
get through it but the psalmist is
saying i'm longing for God I'm longing
for the one who's going to be able to
state to sustain me and love me and
provide for me and his soul will be
satisfied as with the richest of foods
right so we encourage you today we're
not we always say this we're not sure
where you're at because we don't we
don't know who is watching and I was
just sharing with Kerry you know we've
had like four point six million views on
the show more like wow who's watching us
so some of you we know are going through
a tough valley a dry spell you feel like
you're going through the desert and we
want to encourage you to keep moving to
you know find those people who encourage
you and if it's the Word of God read the
Word of God we're hoping that you
planning
God because we do be careful about the
debbie downer's that you listen to and
make sure they're not sucking you out
and giving you discouragement surround
yourself with people ask people to pray
for you saying you know what I'm
struggling and I say that to carry often
i'm going to carry up struggling right
now I need you to pray for me and I find
that when we actually invite people into
our dry desert times it's encouraging
especially if they're people who pray
people who travel with you in in your
spiritual journey so you just want to
take a moment and pray for you and let's
do that now Carrie is going to keep
watching otherwise in the room so father
God I thank you so much that even though
we walk through dry desert-like times in
our life that you put beauty all along
the way you put people in our lives to
encourage us to build us up when you
protect us from the people who drain us
Lord God and where would you inspire us
but you remind us of how you provided
for us in the past and because you have
provided for us in the past you will
provide for us in the future as this
passage says some 63 because I've seen
you in the sanctuary I will choose to
praise you every day despite the dry
desert that I'm going through now
and so father God I ask that you would
bless our viewers blessed Kerry and I as
we travel through this desert physically
and Lord God
that you would be honored and glorified
all things we pray this in the mighty
name of Jesus through the power of the
Holy Spirit amen amen
yeah thanks for tuning in yes so if you
have a chance to support us if you have
some time if you go on to our our web
page and check out our sponsors and just
see if you need to do any shopping go to
amazon.com also to patreon dot
remember the website is or gets on our
partners page on our partners page and
I've checked it out and and subscribe to
that myself so that every episode that
plays you to be contributing 25 cent at
the doll or two dollars it's really
going to help us to keep this on the air
so I just wanted to thank category 5 TV
and Robbie Ferguson oh I don't have a
dip in trouble here thanks Robbie by
making this show possible and thank you
for tuning in again and we hope that you
will join us on the road next week as we
continue with life in the desert catch
you later bye bye baby oh man I think
we're inclining we are we ready like to
them
you
