welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 553 and this week
we are going to be talking about not
necessarily cryptocurrency but the
underlying technology called blockchain
now the questions have been coming in
since we've been talking about
cryptocurrency lately
what is this blockchain and does it only
do cryptocurrency or are there other
things that it's capable of we've got a
guest on tonight who's going to be
sharing with us a lot of great
information stick around you're gonna be
learning off of him tonight we'll be
right back
this is category 5 technology TV
[Music]
[Applause]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB I'm Robbie it's so good
to have you here over on the desk over
there I got Jeff Weston hi how are you
good you good good I have to do that
right off the top because I don't want
people thinking that I'm here all by
myself because tonight we've actually
got an amazing interview and we set up
like this when we do interviews because
of the way that our sets are all so I've
got everything ready to go Jonathan is
standing by from xblock and you don't
want to miss the interview tonight but
before we get into it first of all
category 5 apparel is available you can
get a really nice t-shirt that has the
category 5 technology TV logo you can
head on over to cap 5 TV slash shirts
for that and it's a cool way to support
the show but also to adorn yourself in
some very attractive attire and show off
that you love category 5 TV incidentally
Sasha I think that they should send us
picture yourselves wearing exactly get
your shirts and then email contest at
category 5 TV and well let us know where
you're watching from how you're watching
who you're watching with who you are let
us know anything really that you would
like to let us know in your new gear you
could win a dead Effect 2 VR so VR
though nobody likes DRS I'll live in VR
now so could you join me just email the
contest get the game it will be so much
fun to play yeah starting from my friend
on Steam it starts with
the t-shirt it starts with a t-shirt I
don't think that those those things are
you don't have to have a t-shirt to win
but helps me get a t-shirt because then
we will look at you and say wow that is
one good-looking viewer tiny bit of pull
I feel like if you buy the t-shirt and
you post a picture of yourself wearing
the t-shirt when you do email I will
make you a winner you'll already be a
winner sash it will just give you your
prize so I feel like you're rigging the
contest absolutely all right we have
that power yeah
good to know all right well going out to
more legit things instead of a rigged
contest you can also check out category
5 on Google Play
so our sorry Google Play Music so you
want to go to category 5 TV slash
subscribe I'm a geek big Google play
music fan
so when Robbie announced us on the show
yeah month month and a half ago I was
freaking out ever since they started
doing podcasts it's like okay why
weren't they always doing podcast but it
makes sense it absolutely makes sense so
far subscribe and hang out listen
it's good times Ashley you've been
spending a lot of time in virtual
reality over the past little while cuz
you know we went and built this crazy
gaming rig you can find out more about
it cap v dot TV slash cpu 2017 it
happened at the end of last year we
built this gaming rig and then Sasha and
Dave decided hey we've got this great
rig let's buy a buy this and you've been
enjoying it okay so I blame I I blame
cat 5 for this completely the fact that
I've I'm sorry I know I did a news I did
a news story a few weeks back on the
vibe Pro we don't get your headset first
right because right now the brand new
vive Pro is compatible your system is at
with a 1070 GTX is like the ideal system
right this VR and it's the best virtual
reality experience that you can get
right now right so you don't have to
upgrade
anything is ready I just get the headset
you just get the headset now if you wait
another two years obviously your
hardware is going to become the minimum
so yeah just point okay so if you buy it
at the same level than it just ages at
the same level like you're not gonna be
yeah yeah yeah okay I got I have to get
myself a headset now you just got to get
the VR headset I can do that
let's go save and christmas is coming oh
they're like 800 bucks or something I
think
Canadian I'm not too sure well but it
it's necessary HTC vive pro is necessary
yeah it was a new story and she just
couldn't let it down I'm reading all
these facts on the vive Pro and then I
was like well I have I don't have a vibe
Pro I should backtrack but I have a vibe
and I love it
I didn't even know how amazing a would
be until I did the story and then I
started googling and doing some research
and within like 48 hours I had ordered
it loved it so much I am a great head I
have like 100 percent accuracy with
headshots so here's the question what's
a better reality real or virtual virtual
this is why I want all of the viewers to
get yourself you know a VR build
yourself a really cool computer you can
use your category five five friends to
find out all those the best feels to
yours is still very relevant so I mean
check out the the link obviously join me
you've got time now to do VR because you
used to go home and you just plop down
on the couch and start working on your
phone because Facebook was just taking
up all your time and then what happened
I quit Facebook you quit Facebook reddit
and again something that happened on the
show we started talking about quitting
Facebook and then she went and did it
isn't that crazy
how's that been for you when did you
quit Facebook well she's still on
messenger
so we still get the private messages
okay so who is posting your statuses
yesterday nobody your being that guy
I am so thinking about opening up Sascha
Rickman tons of photos I've had the
intervalometer going tonight so I
actually have about four thousand photos
of you so one of them is yeah perfect
no it's been going really really well I
have a lot of extra free time I haven't
been missing Facebook I do have a
follow-up that we won't cover today but
I do have a follow-up question because
I'd also like to delete Instagram but I
can't back up my data if there's not a
there's not an Instagram yeah there must
be there is a need to find out if there
is a third party tool that uses the API
to download your instagrams stuff then I
would like to delete that because I find
I don't need Facebook so I also don't
need Instagram that's right you do you
find that being off the Facebook's that
your social connections have changed it
all enhanced completely enhanced
enhanced completely it was recently my
birthday and a handful of people a
handful wished me happy birthday but
these were people who I know did not get
a notification to wish me a happy
birthday
Sascha I'm just gonna tell you that
there were posts on Facebook wishing you
a happy birthday
from viewers and we got them and I'll
just tell you that right now we're just
telling you happy birthday I just felt
like I just everything felt so much more
authentic I didn't wish you happy
birthday I wasn't given an alert see you
should have waited until after your
birthday and then you would have gotten
a message from Jeff right yeah otherwise
I just don't know but but also like my
friends who have amazing adorable
kittens they always were posting
pictures of their cats well I was I was
seeing too much not too much I loved
them but the other day I went through a
bunch of like in-person pictures and
they could see my actual
responses cuz they were showing them to
me it's like something different you
don't even realize that you miss anymore
but it's like the in-person contact of
thing my wife Becca did photo books the
other day and so we're enjoying that
same kind of thing where I'm sitting
there and you know and it's like you
don't get that from book face nearly as
much so I'm glad it's working out for
you
how do viewers interact with you now
YouTube like because you used to
sometimes comment on their comments on
the Facebook page and things like that
so it's cool for viewers to get to know
the real Sascha Rickman so how did they
do that now I figured away and really I
ought to get back to the blog to the
blog I do have to do that so that people
can really know my thoughts and feelings
on things at random and then also I
should like I do sometimes check the
YouTube feed for comments but I'm not
spectacular at it so I need to figure
out a way to do that as well so that
make sure you subscribe to us and set
notifications so that you get the
notifications when we post stuff and
then check for comments every day every
single day and we appreciate your
comments on YouTube we've got to take a
really quick break when we come back we
are going to be speaking with Jonathan
bhai he comes to us from exe block or X
block and when we are talking with him
we're gonna be learning all about the
blockchain how it can be used outside of
cryptocurrency this is something I
really want to know and I know you do
too
it's something it's like a buzzword and
when there is a buzzword like this is
the blockchain or real the real deal is
it gonna go by the wayside or is it
going to revolutionize our world stick
around we're gonna find out what a pro
has to say about that don't go anywhere
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts
welcome back this is category five
technology TV and tonight I am joined by
Jonathan bhai Jonathan thank you so much
for being here with us tonight it's
great to be here thank you jonathan is
the founder of exe block and and it is
something that we've been talking about
on the show because we see these
comments on YouTube we get these emails
from our viewers asking about things
like cryptocurrency in the blockchain so
we've been talking a little bit about
the blockchain and cryptocurrency but I
am by no means a professional when it
comes to these topics so the best thing
for me to do to answer your questions is
to bring on professionals who are way
more versed at at these complicated
topics than I am and that's where
Jonathan comes in so Jonathan it's great
to have you here can you explain to us a
little bit about your history on how you
got involved in this blockchain
technology
sure actually it has a little bit to do
with why I am broadcasting from this
particular location back in 2012 I
acquired a 64 thousand square foot
nuclear bunker located in Nova Scotia
Canada it was one of the original Cold
War bunkers that was created by the
government of Canada
back in the day they're referred to as
defend bunkers and so I was lucky enough
to be able to acquire this one and back
then I was in the data center business
so I looked at this as an infrastructure
type of place which had unique cooling
capabilities and back in 2009 is when
Bitcoin started and around that time I
was already interested in blockchain and
I started to look at the possibility of
being able to use this facility for
mining Bitcoin so as I explored that
possibility I realized that there was a
lot of issues that surrounded Bitcoin
itself in regards to how it works the
risks
involved in mining I really couldn't
bring myself to get into that kind of
risk I guess but my interest in
blockchain continued to explore the
space and that's when I started to
discover other types of projects that
were out there and the project that I
gravitated towards most was called
bitshares bitshares is a decentralized
exchange it's actually a blockchain
which offers exchange functions and so
back then this was about 2013-2014 I
started getting very heavily involved in
that particular blockchain and that's
where all my understanding of blockchain
came from the technology it's very
different from how Bitcoin works back
then I became what's called a witness
that's basically a node operator similar
to miners but the actual computing
requirements are very are very different
it's much more efficient doesn't take a
lot of power actually uses the same kind
of hardware that my server farm was made
of so it was very easy for me to be able
to make that move and of course I gained
support from the stakeholders because
that system works on a voting mechanism
rather than working on proof of work
like Bitcoin where you just throw as
much computing power as you can at the
network and you hopefully get a share of
it the type of network the contempo
consensus that that network works by is
called delegated proof of stake which
means that everybody who has a stake in
the network votes for who is going to
secure the network so you have to be
able to prove your trustworthiness your
technical prowess in order to gain the
support of everybody who are
stakeholders in the network so I was
able to do that and over the years I of
course went on to get involved in the
launching of steam which is another
blockchain which actually is focused on
being able to provide content it's
almost like a type of a reddit
but the difference is is that when you
share your content on that blockchain
the blockchain actually pays you for
sharing that watch for able to share the
content
so when you say Steam this is not
related to the gaming platform this is
something entirely different - same name
as yeah so it's spelled ste BM so it's
short for st so the if you go to steam
it comm you'll be able to see it and
that particular blockchain basically
flipped the whole model of content on
its side because what happens is that
you're able to produce content and
actually be paid based on its popularity
from the blockchain itself and so over
the years that has gained momentum these
two block chains alone that I just
mentioned which I was involved in over
the years now account for six sixty
percent of all the blockchain activity
taking place in the world today so you
take a look at etherium it accounts for
approximately maybe thirty percent the
entire network and you look at Bitcoin
it's maybe ten percent written and
everything this is just you know little
slipper it is the rest of everything
else that's out there so let's back up a
little bit you argue underground yes so
this facility is really goes 40 feet
underground
it's quite large this particular space
were in now is actually my office
but there's many different facets to
this facility so this is where we
develop from the X block team yeah this
is also where continuing my story into
blockchain after Steam I actually went
on to actually create my own blockchain
and it's called pure place okay so with
that I use the same type of technology
which was behind those other two I just
mentioned and what what peer places does
is it's dedicated to provably fair
gaming what that does is it solves the
problems that exists today in regards to
the gaming industry with being able to
provide proof of all the transactions
that take place in an audit trail and I
said I want to come I want to talk about
this whole like how the industry is
using the blockchain but Before we jump
too far
here Jonathan you're talking about the
blockchain and how this is impact like
create an entire business for you can we
just if we could just break for a moment
and just say let's talk later here what
in your words would you consider is the
blockchain like can we just break it
down real quick before we start getting
into the the uses for it
sure so you know a lot of people will
talk about the various things that make
up a blockchain I like to break it down
into just four simple things
okay if you have these four simple
things you have a decentralized public
blockchain all right number one you have
to have a consensus mechanism so I
mentioned earlier proof of work I
mentioned delegated proof of stake so
what that means is that there's a
consensus mechanism in order to
determine how the consensus of the
blockchain is going to be determined all
right there's different ways of doing
this but proof of work and proof of
state are generally the most used and
then you have number two you have an
incentive structure of some kind we know
in Bitcoin for example the incentive
structure for miners is that they want
to be able to mine on Bitcoin because
they're gonna receive Bitcoin for
providing that computing power so there
has to be some kind of incentive
structure that aligns the interests of
the people who maintain the blockchain
with keeping with maintaining it and
being able to make it so that is
actually decentralized third thing is to
have some kind of a ledger every single
blockchain has a ledger we know it's as
a distributed ledger and all that really
is is that it's there's copies of the
ledger that are replicated and
duplicated all across the various node
operators that are that are all over the
world and then fourth you have some kind
of
contract so in the case of
cryptocurrencies for example Bitcoin
smart contract is providing a token of
Silla is providing a coin right in
aetherium there's all kinds of different
applications are being created with
smart contracts that are programmable to
do various things for bitshares that I
just talked about it's smart contract is
a series of operations to provide a
decentralized exchange so it's able to
provide multiple tokens it's able to
provide exchange functions so as long as
you have some kind of smart contract
system which simply broken down is if
this then that then you have with all
these four elements you have a
decentralized blockchain now there are
ways to be able to create a blockchain
without these four elements but what you
have then is something is quite
different just think of it like baking a
cake so this is because you know this is
the simplified version it's no wonder
that the blockchain is so confusing to
so many like this is I can't imagine how
much you've had to immerse yourself in
this technology
yeah well it's it took me I'll admit
when I first got involved that it took
me a long time to really grasp how
things worked in and what it all meant
it's not it's not easy to be able to
shift your way of thinking to be able to
really comprehend it all but when you
have these four things they really make
up what what is the magic which is
really the disruption opportunity of
blockchain but when you try to take away
certain things you're able to create
something that isn't blockchain
it's almost like imagining like I said
you bake a cake let's just take away the
eggs right and you might have you might
come up with something and if you've
never had cake before you might think
you're eating cake but you're not eating
cake you can egg substitute right
so a lot of people are out there they're
creating variations of what blockchain
technology has to offer okay and then it
doesn't really offer it really doesn't
do what the promise of blockchain has
with it you have to have all the
ingredients and in order for it to work
okay
can we can we talk about now I got any
message on YouTube from circuit man and
circuit man has some very valid
questions points that I'd like to share
with you and and just kind of get your
opinion and your expertise on these
points so if I'm a circuit man says so I
can see blockchain solving some complex
issues going forward I don't think it's
changing our daily life as we know it in
any dramatic way since everyone will
have their own blockchain you will still
have to trust that blockchain for the
piece of fruit for example put out by
the company that sells that fruit so I
just don't see how it would be any more
trustworthy than just looking at say a
label today I also see crypto coins as
being a sort of a fad until I can pay my
mortgage or car payment with it I can't
take it too seriously as a currency I
can I can correct pardon me I was
correct about the stock market and the
housing bubble and I'm pretty sure I'm
right about this not one country is
behind cryptocurrency and unless a big
country gets behind it or all the banks
behind it then it is going noplace and
I'm more convinced of this today than
ever I could be wrong however I don't
believe I am time will tell one final
thought from circuit Man one of the
biggest problems we're facing today is
no one stops and says just because we
can do a thing should we I see so many
things being developed today that would
be best left on the drawing board as a
human species we really need to take a
few steps back and look at what's being
done and say is it really a good idea
ethically morally we won't because
people get excited by the tech
and can't see past the cool factor and
that's really a shame now that comes to
us from circuit man and we're speaking
with with Jonathan bhai he's the founder
of X block and Jonathan your comments to
to sigh circuit man it's a lot of
comments there I'll do my best to
address the moment so in the beginning
he starts to talk about how everybody's
gonna have block chains this is an
interesting presupposition about where
the future is going and how a blockchain
tech will be used what he's referring to
really is what's called a private
blockchain and as I talked about earlier
in regards to when you bake a cake can
you take out the eggs that is an example
of something where the tech is being
used in a way that really doesn't
provide any good benefits you end up
really with a pretty fancy and actually
inefficient database that doesn't really
have any magic to it other than being
able to say guess what we're using
blockchain right and so a lot of
companies are doing this in some cases
it works well in regards to being able
to track inventory or being able to
track supply chains but what he's
referring to are what are basically
private blotching so but would like the
Walker coin fall into that category for
example from Burger King is that the
idea behind that that's that's a pretty
good example of a hyped up type of a
project that I don't really think
there's a need for a Walker coin but I
don't know about that well if they want
to have their own rewards program like
almost like air miles yeah it certainly
serves that function and the great thing
about it is that you don't have to worry
about them taking away your points
because if it's all cryptographically
secured in your wallet right ok there is
one that is that yeah and we've seen
that where benefit programs where you
know I've bought so many coffees at a
certain coffee shop and all of a sudden
they decide ah we're gonna switch our
benefit program and you've just lost all
of your all of your free coffees so yeah
that would be a thing of the past at
least in this case yeah it's a small
thing and I don't
that's gonna change our lives as know
about that either means referring to you
but I don't think that we're gonna see
private blockchains like he's referring
to as the future where everybody's gonna
have blockchains
what we're gonna see into the future
really is public decentralized
blockchains because again that's where
all the magic comes from that's why
everyone's so excited because it creates
a system where everybody is accountable
and it's not put all into the hands of a
single a single counterparty which is
how all of our systems up until today
have been based you know we've always
had some kind of a middleman per se or
an escrow who is granted a government
what was that or a government or
government yes and so with that that's
that's how all our systems have been
designed from the 1960s all the way up
until now all the technological
advancements we've made in computing
have been around being able to advance
current computer processes or current
business processes how do we make this
cheaper better faster but today with
blockchain that just turns it upside
down because it doesn't even pay
attention to those processes instead
we're talking about being able to do
things peer-to-peer we're talking about
being able to have a bottom-up approach
where all the people who are part of the
blockchain are actually deciding the
direction in which things are gonna go
so like I talked about with bitshares
and steam where people are able to vote
the voting because the voting system
allows for people to actually
participate as part of the blockchain
and being able to direct its direction
so in that regards I don't see how
private blockchains are really gonna
have a future
other than being able to work alongside
with public blockchain so in his in his
example there would have to be some kind
of a third-party validator of those
other block chains that would validate
the transactions taking place and
validating that information in which
case
you can't trust it because it's actually
being validated by multiple parties
instead of just the company itself so it
sounds like the evolution of the
blockchain technology itself and the way
that it is I hate to use the word
controlled because the whole idea is of
decentralization is that it's not
controlled by any one entity but there
is a certain level of control over hey
we're we're following a blockchain that
is a public blockchain and is trusted is
that am i following you right on that
yeah I mean basically when it comes to
blockchain I mean weather and the
excitement about it is that it's the
capability of being able to transact
value rather than transacting copies the
entire Internet right now today
whenever you're sending information or
you're sending images or you're sending
anything you're sending copies of
everything you're not there's no
originals right you're gonna see the
fabric of how the entire internet
communication system actually changes as
the foundation of that protocol actually
switches over to a blockchain type
protocol when that happens you're gonna
see everything switch over to a type of
an edge security so instead of having
these giant centralized data bases all
over the world which are being hacked
all the time and they're going to be
hacked eventually all that security gets
pushed to the edge of the network and
becomes decentralized in which case it
becomes a much harder target to be able
to have everybody talks about how
Bitcoin has never been hacked it's
because of the architecture and how it
works
same thing with a lot of other other
block chains that are out there any of
the hacking stories they heard about in
relation to blockchain have been largely
the centralized exchanges and those are
because they are modeled around the
typical type of computing systems that
we have today and if you're just
creating a target yeah okay now I hope
that we've touched on the circuit man's
questions and comments quite well and I
think some of the conversation after our
break is going to kind of circle back
and help answer some of those questions
as well before we do take a break we've
got a real quick question in the chat
room as well over at the chat room Jeff
yeah actually so the question is you're
just talking about public trust with
decentralized blockchain and so when
you're looking at things like what's
recently going on with Facebook where
there's possible regulatory oversight
that's that now could be coming in place
because of the issues with the data
breach on Facebook how do you deal with
that from the blockchain standpoint if
the government's start to say this is
getting out of control we want to put
regulatory oversight on that do those
two concepts conflict or is there an
ability to merge the interests on both
sides so what's happening with Facebook
is largely because as I refer to just
earlier the massive amount of data which
they're in control of they are able to
determine based on their policies how
they're going to handle your data in a
blockchain world there would be nobody
who is handling your data you would be
in complete control of your data you'd
be able to determine what kind of
privacy and privileges would be granted
to anybody or any of any one entity to
be able to access that information and
then be able to deny access to that
information the whole market which the
Internet largely is based on today of
being able to sell people's information
is gonna dwindle you're gonna see where
again it's it's completely peer-to-peer
so you don't have any one entity that's
controlling it governments in terms of
regular regulation haven't been able to
catch up with what's happening with the
blockchain right now the countries are
just starting to form some opinions
around it but I believe it would be in
the best interest of governments to
understand that block chains are
actually self-regulating entities what
that means is that because it's
bottom-up and because the people who
participate in the blockchain are the
stakeholders of the blockchain they are
gonna work in the best interests of the
blockchain in order to ensure that the
rights and the responsibilities of
everybody that's involved are going to
be protected otherwise it's not gonna
survive it's gonna move it's what will
happen is that people will move on to
the blockchain that does protect
everybody
so these entities because they're able
to self-regulate
it becomes something where the necessity
of government oversight becomes
redundant so and it also because they're
decentralized and they're all over the
world it's impossible to have any one
country actually say something in
regards to how things should operate
what we need to see is all the
governments of the world be able to
agree and then we could come up with
some kind of framework but I think
blockchain technology is gonna go a lot
faster than that happening yeah quite
possibly yeah for sure okay so we've got
to take a really quick break we're
speaking with jonathan bhai he is the
founder of X block and we're speaking
about the blockchain but we're really
trying to get to the gritty the the grit
of what is the blockchain how does it
impact our lives and what is going to
change over the next little while
because I'm trying to get my head around
it folks when we come back from our
break we're gonna be speaking with
Jonathan about how the blockchain is
being used in the world today and what
we're going to see it doing over the
next little while that has nothing to do
necessarily with cryptocurrency stick
around
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV before
the break we were spot was speaking with
Jonathan bhai he's the founder of X
block and we're speaking all about
blockchain and Jonathan it is so nice to
have you here sharing your vast amounts
of knowledge about the blockchain
technology tonight thank you for being
here
thank you alright so before the break we
were talking about you know what the
blockchain is how its kind of impacting
things as far as and even touching a
little bit on cryptocurrency but what I
want to know and what I think some of
our viewers are really looking to find
out is we started this talk a couple of
weeks back about what the blockchain can
be used for that is not cryptocurrency
related are there things that are
happening right now and that you see
that are going to be happening in the
near future that are going to be
revolutionising our world that utilize
the blockchain technology absolutely
some people talk about blockchain in
regards to be the next Internet right
now where blockchain technology is at if
you can think back to the early 90s when
before the internet existed there were
things called BBS's oh yes yeah
oh yeah my RS so blockchain today is
about ret is about in that space right
now where every single blockchain is
like a walled off garden similar to how
BBS is were before the internet but the
capability of being able to have
interchange communication or side-chains
that means that law chains being able to
communicate with one another is coming
this is an important step it's difficult
to it seems like it should be a simple
thing but when you're talking when
you're trying to talk to two networks
which are cryptographically secured
being able to have that transmitted
between each other's is a difficult
thing so that technology though is
becoming more mature and as you see that
happen it's going to explode the
possibilities of what can what can take
place on blockchain I mentioned earlier
that I was earlier involved with
bitshares and steam these projects are
little known but the fact is is that
they're not crypto currencies they're
actually services that are being built
on the blockchain their application
layer so with bitshares you have a
decentralized exchange with steam you
have a blogging platform almost which
allows to be able to post content so
these are functions these are actually
applications at the same time our
company X block is in the process of
building a decentralized application
which is called 50/50 labs so 5050 labs
allows you to be able to run a 50/50
draw entirely on the blockchain
so with that that means that somebody
can create a draw it all exists on the
blockchain can people can purchase their
tickets it all exists on the blockchain
they receive their tickets in the
blockchain and then they're able to
actually have the draw settled by the
blockchain so this allows for being able
to have no auditing this allows for
being able to have an auditing trail
it's completely transparent and it's
instant and it's able to expand
worldwide so there those are just a
couple of examples of ways that it can
be applied but it's going to explode
into so many other areas the financial
institutions they're looking at crypto
currencies because that's the most
obvious from being able to do
transmission and things like that but
when you look at anything that has to do
with a ledger or a registry when you
think about home ownership when you
think about your insurance policies when
you think about your birth certificate
when you think about anything that has
to do with being able to create a trail
of history the blockchain becomes the
most ideal solution because it's able to
just continue on forever whereas the
systems that we have today are really
temporary and they're able to be easily
hacked or even disappear and just with
multiple systems everywhere there's no
one way to have that information
accessible to everybody and as you said
it's a copy of a copy of a copy and
you've got all these copies redone the
rivals now I've always picked or
Jonathan maybe you can shed some light
on this but I've always pictured the
blockchain as being just a a pool filled
with hashes like the way you're
describing it makes me feel like it's a
it is in and of itself a bit of a dark
web or you know able to carry and
transmit data can you explain that to me
so yeah it can absolutely be able to
carry and transmit data and the thing is
is that in a pool of hashes what's
happening there is that that's where you
have the layer for the consensus
mechanism and for the and for the the
replication of the of the ledger right
these are the two elements that have to
do with the blockchain itself but
there's a smart contract layer right and
when you look at the smart contract
capabilities if this then that and being
able to program in all these types of
variations of what could happen or what
you want to happen to execute then that
opens up a world of possibilities of
taking anything that's on your phone
today
that's an application being able to have
that operate decentralized and no longer
needing the operator or the company
which created it dictating to you how
that how that decentralized application
is going to work instead the people who
own it are all the people that use it
and they can actually be able to
determine what kind of features and
functions need to go into this to make
it the best that it is so what this does
is it actually eliminates the need for
any kind of competition because once
there's an application that has lots of
users using it in the blockchain space
it makes almost no sense to try to
create something else because anything
that someone else creates can easily be
be adopted to the existing blockchain
application that's that's doing the same
thing and just be able to make the
changes quickly with the with all the
users consent consensus so you're gonna
see a whole different way for people to
participate in being able to be a part
of what's what's out there in services
instead of this company consumer type of
thing it is the peer-to-peer economy
where everybody is working together and
able to have a piece of what's going on
I I do see that the chat room has some
more questions for us just circling back
before we get into a couple of those to
that Facebook question that happened
just before the break what you're
describing to me sounds like because
we're all very concerned about our data
privacy and things like that so I'm kind
of grasping that the blockchain is is
going to allow for technologies to exist
say like Facebook so if we can use
Facebook as the example where a it's a
communication platform and has a lot of
data about us but that data can be
decentralized can be in a million places
at once and yet only in one place only
accessible in one place only authorized
by you right with my private key exactly
that is mind-bendingly amazing like I
know the blockchain is exciting but the
like I'm trying to get my head around
this let's jump over the chatroom Jeff
Sasha what do you have for for our guest
Jonathan tonight yeah so we have a
question from the Fuu and he wants to
know how is tracking via the blockchain
different than tracking with GPG signed
messages hmm I'm sorry you say that
again
how is tracking via blockchain different
than tracking with GPG signed messages
so tracking via blockchain versus
tracking do you say PGP g PG o g PG okay
sorry so tracking so that this comes
back to the question of I guess in
regards to privacy if this is the nature
of the question yes I think to do with
you know and the food correct me if I'm
wrong but to do with the ability for the
blockchain to be tracked like say a
monitor you know we think about
Cambridge analytic and being able to
glean all this information well what can
be gleaned from the blockchain how is it
different than the other technologies
that are out there that allow us to
share information in an encrypted format
in a private format so in terms of being
able to track information blockchain is
very elegant in regards to being able to
see where everything originates
it's very very transparent it contrary
to a lot of popular belief that it's
actually something that is anonymous per
se the ability to be able to actually
see everything that's going on is a
large part of what makes it so unique
and so trusted by everybody because you
give you can trace back we're in the
Bitcoin example you can trace back where
a Bitcoin started from from wallets
wallets wallets wallet until you can see
where it actually
so it's really not that it's really not
about being able to have everything
hidden but it is about being able to be
transparent in a different way I'm not
suggesting that everything that we do on
the Internet is going to be open to
everybody but it is a different type of
network where information is so
accessible to everybody it doesn't it's
no longer a value to anyone I don't know
if that makes a lot of sense
III think we've we've kind of covered
yeah and Jeff's giving me the nod like
yeah I think that i think that that
answers the question does the chat room
have any other questions for us tonight
Jeff not that I'm seeing but I had a
question and just you were talking a
little bit about other areas that the
blockchain would come into play and I'm
thinking you know could it be used for
something like you know every country
has a passport in every country is able
to process those passports could you
take something like international travel
and having identifiable you know details
about yourself that could be into a
blockchain could you use it in a
capacity like that outside of a computer
running algorithms or is it strictly
tied to computer and technological based
means so we're talking about ID
verification and I need verification I
would say is an important element to
what is needed in the blockchain space
you know ID doesn't really need
blockchain but blockchain needs ID and
when it comes to passports that's an
excellent example of an application
which could be used for international
travel it would make it so much easier
for countries around the world to be
able to validate passports the
possibility of being able to have
fraudulent passports becomes impossible
so the entire industry of being able to
have fake passport systems as gone
because it's all validated it's all part
of a consensus Network which is is true
so this is gonna make for international
to be faster more efficient easier and
also overall safer so in that instance
that is a good example of an application
for blockchain once again a registry
which definitely can be replaced with
blockchain function the technology is is
important in regards to the
cryptographic security of being able to
create the chain itself but then you
have to have the other three elements
that I talked about you have to have
your consensus you have to have your
incentive structure and you have to have
the smart contracts so if we can make it
so that something like that existed
decentralized then I guess that's where
in this case countries issuing passports
all agreeing to using a particular
blockchain then we could see that happen
all I ask is one percent of the
royalties if your company makes it
happen if we can get her to agree on
that and we've got a couple of witnesses
here today we're speaking with Jonathan
bhai he is the founder of X block and
specializing in the blockchain
technology itself and you know I feel
like an absolute geek here tonight
because this has been a lot of fun I
mean I admit and and informative and
we've learned a lot tonight Jonathan I
appreciate the time very much before we
wrap up our interview tonight could you
share with us some vision of what the
future looks like based on blockchain
technology what is to come Wow so
there's gonna come a day not too not too
far in the in the near future where
you're gonna find yourself using your
phone it's going to become more so tying
to biometrics that your private key is
going to be tied to your own personal
biometrics and when that happens that's
gonna become your own ID Perseids and as
once that's that's established that
protocol for being able to establish a
private key and keep it secure to your
person then you're gonna start to see a
big switchover of being able to have
decentralized applications which are
going to exist on your phone that are
going to allow you to actually partake
in them and be able to actually share in
the revenues that are derived from them
instead of just being an end consumer
you're gonna start to be able to
participate in the building of these
applications you'll be able to actually
make suggestions for the way things
should work and actually have them
happen this is going to allow for a lot
less competition and a lot more
cooperation you're gonna see be an
ability to be able to transact worldwide
in a peer-to-peer fashion that has never
been seen before and with that it's
gonna force these regulations and walls
that have been created to be able to
stop the flow of business goods to be
able to just flow around the world
freely it's just it'll be like a tsunami
that the governments around the world
aren't going to be able to keep up with
and that the people are gonna demand I
think that this isn't necessarily about
the excitement of the tech I think this
is the excitement of being able to
actually make the world a better place
and being able to have a tech that
enables empowers every empowers
everybody to be able to do that so my
company x-block we're one of the very
first that are really dedicated to
creating the solutions that we believe
are going to surround that type of
activity in the world and I'm really
hoping that more companies are gonna see
that that's where the future is and
that's where they should be headed
awesome Jonathan it's been great having
you on the show check out their website
I've got it below I mentioned at the top
of the show it is spelled e^x block and
calm and
check them out find out more Jonathan
pleasure and thank you so much for
sharing more information than I could
have imagined that we could have fit
into this amount of time well thank you
for having me thank you very much all
right this is category five technology
TV Wow I'm just I'm just unbelievably
blown away by the technology the
knowledge the information I personally
want to rewind things and go back over
this interview and I think perhaps you
at home should do the same and and I
think that this technology we're going
to see is going to be something that is
not just for the tech geek this is
something that we're going to see
breaking into the world in it for for
mom and dad and and everybody else so
stay tuned we're gonna be seeing that
happen over the next a while exciting
time Sasha Rickman how are you my friend
I am great Sasha you've been so quiet
over there tonight I know I've just been
I gotta give you the floor I feel like
I've got to give you the floor is it my
turn it is your turn are you having fun
are you learning I am learning okay feel
like the new kid on the block here new
kid on the block teen she coined that
right here we've got the t-shirts on
sale are you ready for it I am here are
the stories we're covering this week in
the category 5 TV newsroom Germany's
Supreme Court has rejected a legal case
that sought to stop people using the
popular
Plus program that removes ads from
websites a Chinese web giant has found a
Windows zero day and is keeping the
details quiet while working with
Microsoft on the issue an unpatched
vulnerabilities been found in the
Nintendo switch that can be exploited to
run custom code and do you run Drupal
you need to upgrade immediately these
stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Weston jela
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what are you you're terrible
actor what this where acting comes into
play I don't know you're supposed to act
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cat5 dot TV / dream
host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat 5 TV slash DreamHost
this
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux mics I'm Sachi Rickman and
here are the top stories we're following
this week Germany's Supreme Court has
rejected a legal case that sought to
stop people using the popular adblock
plus program that removes ads from web
sites the lawsuit was started three
years ago by German publishing a German
publishing giant Axel Springer it
alleged that the way adblock a bad block
plus stopped people seeing
advertisements on its sites amounted to
unfair competition Axel Springer said
that it would continue its legal
challenge by taking the issue to
Germany's Constitutional Court the
German publishing firm first complained
about adblock plus in 2015 alleging that
it broke competition laws by letting
firms pay to be on a whitelist
to stop their ads being blocked it took
the case to the Supreme Court after
losing the first round of legal action
in 2015 either German media firms that
also launched related legal actions said
the simple blocking of ads was a
violation of local laws designed to
promote competition the Supreme Court
disagreed with Springer's allegations
and said no laws were being broken
because it was up to individual users
whether or not they used the software
the creators of adblock plus welcomed
the ruling and said in a statement that
it was excited that Germany's highest
court upheld the right every internet
citizen possesses to block unwanted
advertising online after the verdict
class Hendrik sewing Springer's a head
of media law said the ruling was an
attack on the heart of the free media so
is it an attack on the heart of free
media no I don't think so at all I don't
think so nope not at all
I I think this is a great ruling and I
think it was a proper ruling now granted
it's probably based on German law so
depending on what each country has for
their own laws would dictate how the
court
be able to make a determination but I
completely 100% stand behind Germany
Supreme Court on this because if you if
you say legally in court you are not
allowed to deny advertisements you have
just commercialized the human race and
quite frankly that's a right that is
individual so I stand with the the
German Court on this one if I don't want
to see ads I don't want to see it I
think that this is a very polarizing
topic in that if you're in the free
media that you have to be able to
generate revenue so here's the thing my
newsstand as a newspaper used to be a
physical newsstand I used to have paper
boys on the corner selling newspapers
for a nickel and that was my revenue
stream and people would buy the
newspaper from the local store now my
revenue stream if you will becomes a
website and it's very competitive it's
highly competitive because everything
that's on the Internet is expected to be
free so if I now put advertising on my
site in order to be the compensation for
the distribution of my news and then you
block it there's the other perspective
Jeff no and I get that perspective but
here's my take on it advertising on the
Internet is not like traditional
advertising if you turn on the TV you
get commercials you get a specific
commercial that's been purchased to air
at a certain time regardless of what
your personal life circumstances are you
go to online advertising and it's based
on the cookies and the data and the
information that's shared through your
internet usage so it's not generic
advertising it's specific targeted
advertising and that is what I think
acceptable to be blocked if somebody
says look I don't want my personal data
being used to advertise back to me thank
you leave me alone so if that was the
case then could we not say let's make it
so the adblock plus for example in the
in the case of this story was to give an
opt-out command to the advertising that
says
no tracking no tracking code and only
display generic ads and the only thing
that they're allowed to display are
those generic ads that traditional media
would have been purchasing would have
been selling I'd be okay with that
I really would because then it's not
targeted advertising based on your
individual online profile its generic
advertising and you know
case in point like with Facebook I I
turn off all ability to read my data and
give me targeted ads so now I go on
Facebook and I see the ads that have no
relevance to me whatsoever
but I appreciate that because I don't
feel like I'm being pigeon-holed into
certain products I get a wide range of
paid for media and I'm okay with that
right so that that's my take on this one
so I'm 100% okay with it okay Ashley you
like you prefer targeted ads I prefer to
like keep it together we had this
conversation last week I really actually
like that I would get recommendations
based on things that I viewed I like it
because it opens up a world of ideas for
example if I buy a product and there is
a companion product I haven't heard of
or been able to research and then I get
an ad about that I appreciate it I want
something that that protects whatever
device I just bought I have a feeling
that Jeff goes into Toys R Us buys a toy
for the kids walks up to the checkout
and they say did you get the batteries
to go with that and he punches them in
the face no violence
I throw in the air and I walk out I do
understand like you want your privacy to
be completely honored and that makes
sense to me but my heart is really with
and maybe it's because I'm on this show
but my heart is with the the volunteers
out there who only can make money with
these firms aren't volunteers okay no
they're they are money make okay if
Facebook was 100% volunteer we'd be
having a very different discussion okay
yeah Facebook owns the world
because of their advertising if and if
and if my user data wasn't collected and
stored for advertising purposes I would
be a little bit more apt to say okay I
can I can side with the ad firms on this
okay but because you get that
information it's stored you are
personalized you're categorized you
become a marketable product into
yourself
there is a Jeff profile out there that
people are targeting to because of what
I do online I don't want it mm-hmm
that's me that's fair a Chinese web
giant has found a Windows zero day and
is keeping the details quiet while
working with Microsoft on the issue
Chinese company qui ho 360 says it is
found a zero a Windows zero day in the
wild but because it has notified
Microsoft it is not telling anyone else
how it works the company announced an
apt attack on the unspecified zero day
of the unspecified zero day on a global
scale it called the vulnerability a
double-kill bug said it exploits the
latest version of Internet Explorer and
applications that use the IE kernel and
how did that it's being spread in
Microsoft Office documents that include
a malicious web page if a victim opens
the document the post claims the
malicious code will run in the
background to execute the unspecified
attack program it's only illustration of
the attack is in the Chinese language
annotated image Chinese language
annotated image shown here Microsoft
would far prefer that users stopped
using Internet Explorer and adopt its
edge browser instead some users are
proven approving stubborn however
according to net market share ie still
has a arrested arrested on twelve
percent of the browser market that is
why it's why last week patch last week's
patch two
they plugged a serious if legacy ie
vulnerability CVE 2014 - zero 322 a
remote code execution bug
so only Internet Explorer users are at
risk is that it yeah okay and
Microsystems will say this time this
time Microsoft wants us to switch to
edge well of course we're where nobody
is yeah well yeah okay I don't use edge
I don't I don't like edge I think people
are going to use edge so what's the next
best
I don't know Robbie can you weigh in on
this what's the next best browser to use
if okay we got Internet Explorer as the
first option edge is the second and her
question is what's the next what is what
is the browser that is apt to be
exploitable ensure and maybe conforms to
standards and is innovative is fast is
good on resources those kinds of things
so obviously you know we're gonna look
at the top two which are Firefox and
Chrome plain and simple now you can get
into other ones opera and if you want to
try out some of the obscure ones that's
fine too but realistically Chrome
Firefox they're about on par believe it
or not now especially with Firefox 57
which uses less memory than earlier
versions of Firefox is faster and even
boasts that it's faster than chrome I
don't know if that's true yet I haven't
benchmarked it myself
I've had problems with Firefox in the
past with memory leaks and I don't like
Firefox's approach to the app ecosystem
the attack the add-on ecosystem in that
I think that any browser that kills off
their entire developer base like they
did is with with Firefox 56 I think is
that's that's just a no-no to me I think
that they really needed to work with
their developers better so that was a
bit of
like now both browsers are excellent
Chrome Firefox Sasha can you can you
imagine you know my first question to
you is going to be do you have a Firefox
phone or do you have an Android phone I
have an Android phone you have an
Android phone so we have to just think
about the fact that okay what one is
going to work better for you Chrome or
Firefox so if they're pretty much
matched up as far as the quality the
browser goes at this point which one is
going to work better for you now chrome
is developed by Google the same company
that manufactures your phone's operating
system Android so part of Chrome is that
you can log into your Google profile and
it gives you access to things like
shared bookmarks with your phone shared
bookmarks with your other computers
using Chrome and it gives you shared
access to your history and and passwords
and things that you do within that
Google ecosystem so as an Android user
would you find benefit to the fact that
you're accessing your email in the same
way on multiple different platforms and
you're nodding and I think that the
answer is probably yeah
in your case would then be Chrome is
probably the best browser for you
Firefox doesn't offer that same kind of
functionality that is going to be tied
into your phone the way that the Google
browser is so that's where I would
probably lean in your case and using
Chrome is safe against an attack like
this we have to work we have to be wise
we have to always be mindful that
fisher's which are folks that are out
there trying to get your information
they're out there
tricking users they're bringing up
browser windows so web pages essentially
that look like error messages that look
like a Windows error and click here to
to fix it or call this number to reach
out to Microsoft because we've got a
patch for your computer these kinds of
things so as long as you're privy to the
fact that hey there are web threats out
there that you need to watch out for on
any browser you need to be smart about
those things and and part of that is
just knowing that you need to watch out
for those
then yeah you're safer now what it boils
down to here with ie
is that the things that are happening do
not require the user to do an idiotic
thing that's what it boils down to so
with the old Outlook Express if you
simply touched an email that had malware
on it boom
you're infected you didn't even have to
open it you didn't even have to click a
link it was in your system what is it
with Microsoft products that was a
Microsoft product now Internet Explorer
same thing you simply touch that link
and boom you're infected you've got this
malware whatever the zero day is that's
the exploit and it can get into your
system if you're not patched and they're
you know they're Microsoft's looking at
it and saying oh that's an old browser
we don't support it we don't want people
using it do we even want to patch it I
guess we'd better but they're not you
know that's not the game that they're
one to play so yes
chrome is going to be safer because
those exploits are not a part of chrome
and the development ecosystem of Chrome
and Firefox indeed is based on a
completely different model to that of
Microsoft now one thing that does give
me pause for concern about this story is
in my experience in dealing with
government resources I would say that
generally governments lag behind on
updating and as of a year ago I know
when I was looking at some government
infrastructure for a client of mine they
were using Internet Explorer because
they still had windows and tea right and
I'm going wow I can't believe this is on
a government computer so if you've got
government computers that potentially
are still using a software like
operating systems that are just full of
holes but you're still using Internet
Explorer and you haven't updated massive
massive problems so it would be better
if just we switch to Linux
yes well played don't say that with the
fry at the end it's not it's not a
question it's a statement if you wanted
to go there and I think you know you hit
the nail on the head there Jeff where
you know the government has trouble
keeping up with the technology because
they don't have the manpower they don't
have the resources to constantly be
upgrading and improving things and quite
frankly and a lot of government IT
departments are folks that went to
school back in the 90s and are trained
based on 90s tech and if you're running
NT on your server well that's probably
because you were educated in the 90s and
haven't improved upon that education but
but also there's the fact that some
people some companies are held back by
the technologies that they've invested
in so you think about an activex
development where they've paid tens of
thousands of dollars to build on the
internet explorer' architecture a piece
of software that is for their internal
intranet for example so now you tell
them they need to move to chrome and
they look at that twenty thousand dollar
bill that they paid ten years ago and
say oh you know what we're not going to
do it right we're not going to rebuild
our entire intranet an unmatchable
vulnerability has been found in the
run custom code security researcher Kate
emkin has released proof of concept code
dubbed fuse a gelée that exploits a bug
in Nvidia's Tegra chipsets to run custom
code on locked down devices Temkin who
participates in the Nintendo switch
hacking project Ries which has developed
a cold boot hack for the games console
that takes advantage of a none patchable
blunder in the Tegra boot ROM she's also
working on a customized switch firmware
called atmosphere which can be installed
via fuse a gelée essentially if you say
jelly exploit a vulnerability during a
switches startup to commandeer the
gadget and
- cute unofficial software this is
useful for unlocking the locked-down
Nintendo switch so that homebrew games
custom firmware and other code can be
run you'll need physical access to the
hardware during powerup to perform fuses
la it's not something that can be pulled
off over-the-air in a blog post
outlining her findings earlier this
month
Temkin explained the relevant
vulnerability is the result of a coding
mistake in the read-only boot ROM found
in most Tegra devices Temkin reckoned
the issue is present in all Nintendo
switches the nature of the flaw is such
that it will require a hardware revision
to fix the boot rom which contains the
programming bug accepts minor patches in
the factory but cannot be updated
afterwards according to temp Caen that
means once a vulnerable machine rolls
off the assembly line the vulnerability
is baked in and cannot be mitigated
Temkin says that the exploit was
responsibly disclosed to and forwarded
to other vendors that use Tegra embedded
processors including Nintendo successful
exploitation compromises the processors
root of trust and provides the attacker
with access to secrets burned into
device fuses as well as following
arbitrary code execution while such an
exploit could be used for malware that
compromises the users personal data due
to the very nature of the Nintendo
switch being a gaming console it's most
likely that this will be exploited to
route the device and create custom boot
loaders for side loading unofficial
applications full details of the bug is
set to be revealed on June 15th 2018
unless it is made public by others first
a parallel effort to create custom
firmware for the switch using the
vulnerability or one substantially
similar is underway by a group called
team executors this is cool this is cool
I mean it's unfortunate that there's a
vulnerability that you know could allow
people to completely change the way that
theirs
which runs so that you know they don't
necessarily need to be buying games from
Nintendo right but this is effectively
jailbreaking right so you can open a
whole new door of exploration with your
switch and I mean I
I love taking tech to the next level and
I think this is kind of nice
so recently Nintendo has released the
switch lab Oh which I don't know if you
okay so it's a bunch of different
cardboard bastes you know fun things you
can do with your switch you can turn it
into a piano or robot or whatnot and it
really focuses on stem right yes I love
it and then this is funny and kind of
ironic because it's kind of takes it to
the next level right right now all of a
sudden you can really turn your switch
into something else yeah it is cool to
see them getting involved in the stem
movement teaching kids how to build
things and code and do all that kind of
stuff absolutely so I love my switch I
have one I love it I use it often but
that's besides the point
I use my switch and I wonder if it could
be dual booted like if I could have my
switch and then also have this alternate
thing where I could turn it into
something more we'll see I suppose at
the end of the day it's possible I mean
that's where the exploit is is in the
boot sequence so if you do have a way to
physically get to it and and you know
input this code that gives you a dual
startup I mean it's it's entirely
possible absolutely but the one thing I
was wondering though is because it's I
mean because it's a physical you have to
physically be there to get the the code
in is this really going to be such an
issue with a concern for malware I mean
how many people are gonna break into a
home hook up to a switch put the code in
now access your data on the network I
have to ask though it's Asha how how do
you get games on the switch how do they
end up on the switch I have to buy them
yeah do you remember the Nintendo DS yes
yeah Super D I see like it sounds like a
cartridge yeah tiny like I'm like when
you say cartridge it's like a thumbnail
cartridge so in that case job could they
not exploit a cartridge could they not
like infect a run of games for example
and then because you turn on the switch
and boom you're in I suppose but there's
always a boot sequence before you load
the game so just where do you put the
game in before you boot it isn't that
how you do it well yes but you still
have to boot into into the software in
order to be able to read the game so you
would go Pat this is Mike my guest from
what the story is you boot into the
software first then access the game it'd
be no different than starting up your
Raspberry Pi and then being able to
access retropie just by having retropie
on there doesn't change the boot
sequence unless there's a way to change
the coding somehow which i suppose as
possible but again it if it's a if it's
a learning drive that you're sticking in
your switch you'd have to physically
impact that drive now so I mean who
knows it's possible I guess I mean it's
still a new exploit but it'd be
interested in severs definitely side
loading games custom games indie games
being able to release games that you can
play on a on a rooted switch that yeah
you can all of a sudden hey you know
well I mean imagine being will take all
those roms you've got from say your
retropie your switch now you've got
retropie on the go there you go it's
crazy stuff it's a fun console and it
can be even more fun soon do you run
Drupal you need to upgrade immediately
as an in the wild exploit aims to take
over your server attackers are mass
exploiting a recently fixed
vulnerability in the Drupal content
management system that allows them to
take complete control of powerful
website servers at least three different
attack groups are exploiting a Drupal
getting to the name given to an extreme
a critical vulnerability that Drupal
maintains maintain errs patched in late
March Drupal getting to makes it easy
for anyone on the Internet to take
complete control of vulnerable servers
simply by accessing a URL and injecting
a publicly available exploit code
exploits allow attackers to run code of
their choice without having having to
have an account of any type of of any
pardon me of any type on a vulnerable
website the mass exploitation of Drupal
servers reminds us of the epidemic of
unpatched Windows servers a decade ago
which gave criminal hackers access to
millions of pcs the attackers would then
use their widely distributed purchase to
launch new instructions because web
servers have significantly more
computing power and Internet bandwidth
than a desktop computer the new rash of
servers being compromised by this
exploit poses a much greater threat to
the Internet Drupal maintained errs have
patched the critical vulnerability in
both the seven point seven and eight
version families as well as the six
family which maintained errs stopped
supporting in 2016 administrators who
have yet to install the patch should
assume their systems are compromised and
take immediate action to disinfect them
scary stuff it happens every week I feel
[Laughter]
Drupal and insert you know anything else
WordPress so you have to just update and
like and you have to run you know your
security patches and everything you have
to install them and it has to happen all
the time my question is why exactly
would somebody not do that I feel like
wouldn't all of these news stories be
gone if people just updated when they
were supposed to update yes but that
would require the human race to
be lazy and really that's about the only
way to put it it for people who are
going to run a server run a website you
have to have to be security conscious so
every day you should be looking to see
is there something where my system is at
risk where my user data is at risk
I mean Drupal is a massive platform that
tons and tons of websites use and
because it's so customizable you have
major company websites that are run
through Drupal right that's how they
program it I mean I I used Joomla a lot
in the past I got kind of gone out of
Joomla but Drupal was the next big thing
that everybody who's migrating over to
and once you get a Drupal site up and
you have all your extensions and all
that built in it's near impossible to be
able to pull away and do a whole new
site and so people just get used to
doing their thing and they go oh there's
another update yeah but I've call these
extensions and I don't know how that's
gonna work like it might nullify some of
my extensions because the extensions
aren't up-to-date you know I just I'm
not gonna rock the boat and there's this
mentality of there's an update so I'm
gonna wait for the next one to make sure
the bugs in the new one are fixed bad
idea it seems bananas to me that that
would be the line of thinking but it is
because so many people have been burned
by an update that renders a function
useless I'm just gonna throw something
out there just because we've got to wrap
up the the segment but real quick
thinking back to the government office
who can't keep up with the technology
you think about Drupal and content
management systems get put into place
because their cost savings we don't have
to develop the backend we can create a
content management site our cost goes
down now if our cost goes down part of
that mentality is let's keep costs down
so maintenance falls by the wayside and
nobody is keeping active maintenance
going with these websites so you know
you see it all the time people buy these
cheap websites based on its content
management web
say service because they don't have to
pay a lot of money up front but you do
have to maintain it and if you don't
you're gonna be one of those exploited
thanks Robbie and big thanks to Roy W
Nash and our community of yours for
submitting story sauce this week thanks
for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight lytx bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Rickman Thank You Sasha I'm Robbie
Ferguson and for the record you were
operating the teleprompter tonight my
friend I was that was my fault I should
have memorized I really ought to have
that memorized I know my name I know
it's sitting there at I'm I don't know
what to say it's like a real-life Ron
Burgundy you just read what's on the
screen and if there's three extra spaces
it's like oh there we go
I know are you both going to be here
next week that's the ultimate question
are you both going to be here next week
for sure well if I'm planning on it oh
boy because next week we're gonna be
looking at a real-life robot we're gonna
be coding on a Raspberry Pi to the Oh
bot you don't want to miss it we've got
this thing we're gonna be showing it off
here on the show and we're gonna be
teaching you how it works great stem
stuff it's ways to teach kids science
technology engineering and mathematics
and we're gonna be learning to code a
robot it's gonna be a lot of fun and
thank you to you too for for all your
hard work tonight thanks to our guest
Jonathan who was here from x-block and
make sure you check out that interview
go back watch it ten times get it
through because there was a lot of great
information there and if you've got
questions about crypto currency
the blockchain we're not becoming a
blockchain show don't worry but we do
want to bring the viewers what they want
so get your questions in like submit
them to us on youtube or via our website
it's a great way to get those questions
in and as I say I'm deferring to people
who know a lot more about it than I do
so I think that's the way to do it
alright have a wonderful week looking
forward to seeing you next week tonight
