welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number five 23 for
Wednesday the 27th of September 2017 and
you know what that means this is our
10th anniversary show we've got a lot of
fun planned for you we're gonna
reminisce a little bit but most of all
we're gonna turn this thing upside down
and make category-five into a game show
stick around this is category 5
technology TV are live recordings are
trusted only two solid-state drives by
Kingston Technology revive your computer
with improved performance and
reliability over traditional hard drives
with Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams
live with Telestream wire cast and
nimble streamer tune in live every week
on Kody Roku and other HLS video players
for local show times visit category-five
dot TV TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat5 dot TV slash TPN and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat5 dot TV slash iai be it
is so fantastic to have you joining us
here for our 10th anniversary has been
on the air for ten years
can you believe it I can't believe it
and these two all right let me just kind
of let you know how the format is
happening tonight first of all you're
going to get to see some of the hosts in
the order in which they appeared so Jeff
was in fact the first co-host ever on
category 5 technology TV what episode 9
episode 9 9 yeah can you believe that oh
now he's a sment of your place the that
was Studio B originally our second
studio set in my house it was fun so
when we started category 5 that's that's
how it was it was just a web cam and
when you came on we had two webcams yes
it was horrendous quality let me respond
bigger between them with like free
software manycam and doing it that way
and then Cary started with the show
near the end of season 1 and was with us
for some time
and incidentally you're still with the
network but no longer on tech TV yes
tell us a little bit about that I would
love to so Robbie gave my friend and I
Jen an opportunity an opportunity to
have a show on the cat5 network called
new every day so we have been doing new
every day for this is our third season
not unreal it's unreal
it's gone by so quickly and we just talk
about all sorts of things on new every
day they can check it out there's a link
on the on the website just go to County
$35 every day TV we're up to a hundred
and eighteen episodes so crazy we've
done like road trips we know every day
we put it in the car we talk about life
we talk about like life questions God
everything yeah we've just really
enjoyed it honestly I feel like Jen and
I get so much out of doing the show so
we're just really great friends and yeah
your your banter is you know and a lot
of the times it's the questions that I
would ask or that you know if you were
would ask and that's what you're
touching on so and of course here we are
with tech this is 9% tech yeah nerd
nerdy stuff
I know I know
so you know I get together with my
friends and talk nerdy stuff that's true
so okay fun memories now episode 9 was
your first episode and then you were
gone for years yeah it was such a
horrible experience no it was it was a
lot of fun but yeah just I think it did
the one episode and then it wasn't long
after that that I believe I moved out of
town yeah I yeah I met a wonderful lady
who later decided to say yes and I got
married to her we moved out of town and
I was only two years ago really we moved
back to the area and then I was able to
pick up on the show again
so wonderful yeah so fond memories of
category-five fond memory it was such a
gap there so you're so Jeff's kind of
experience with the show is much more
recent even though it was here as
the first kind of guests on the show I
think to this day probably my most
favorite memory of the show was doing
the Back to the Future episode that was
fun I loved that episode it was it was
fun watching the movie looking at our
special effects when we turned to my
critique eats a into a full-size pizza
it was good
it's not often I do any research for
anything so to actually sit down and
watch the movie was kinda neat because I
didn't get to just watch it I I'm like
studying everything that's happening I'm
watching what's going on in the
background as far as what they think
tech is gonna be right kind of stuff so
it's like my wife's try I don't watch it
with me it's finally she got up and
walked away because it was annoying
okay play shoes just selfless so yeah I
think that's probably my most fond
memory it was it was a great episode a
lot of fun so get on over to category
five TVs do a quick search up at the top
for Back to the Future
yep how about yourself carry me with the
show for some time yes I was I think it
was it was two seasons right yeah yeah
definitely like tail end of season one
yeah season two and I think even some of
season three even it's interesting I was
just looking at the 200th episode okay
I was watching when I came onto the show
is that when you hosted on your own or
know this now and you came back
I see I'm thinking of 300 where you came
on and you hosted all by yourself but it
was very interesting you know we were
just talking before the show about what
goes into making this happen Robbie and
all of like the different tech things
that you have to make happen and when
Sasha and Jeff hosted a show on their
own and how everything that was yeah
that's it's a real skill so but I do
have fond memories of
well the first anniversary party mmm
outside of this only why you started
with us because I wanted something to go
around and hold the mic yeah that's how
it all began you kinda want to come on
as a co-host so that was a fond memory
just because it was it was so different
than anything I had done before and I
didn't know that you were involved in
something as big as cat5 and here we are
in our own studio now so we're
celebrating our 10th year and we are in
studio D it's a nice space and I know
you can't really see all around us but
you know there's a sitting area
there's we've got three studio sets
which we hope to use a little bit more
as as we grow so and since beer I mean
you've even used the difference around a
little bit yeah last week Sasha and I
were on the green screen in a great big
beautiful studio that was cool so I I
watched bits and pieces of that show of
you and Sasha building a gaming thing
computer
don't know what she's talking about so
what else have you caught on the show
that's been interesting well I watched
Shelley try the McDonald's yes 3d
glasses virtual reality virtual reality
glasses from Sweden because McDonald's
their Happy Meal actually became 3d
virtual reality goggles yeah that's so
crazy
there it is cool where you can put you
you ever think you would actually get to
see these yeah the Happy Meal turns into
a set of virtual reality goggles crazy
yeah so I saw Shelley trying them out
and that's cool thought that was pretty
neat yeah yeah we got some cool textile
tech things I think one of the products
that was reviewed when I was co-hosting
was the jawbone we had a woman come and
explain that bit of time we had Mark
Shuttleworth on the show Mark
Shuttleworth and founded canonical
Ubuntu he was on the show he was the the
CEO there for some time that was with
you we also went to an ambulance place
learn how to use a defibrillator and I
still to this day think that that's a
great video that you've got to see yeah
because it teaches you how to save life
yes a defibrillator so yes cool so great
memories very good okay well we've got
to take a really quick break and when we
come back we're gonna get into game show
mode so stick around
now here's another great way you can
support the shows you love from the
category five dot TV network by shopping
gearbest that's right Jeff cap five dot
TV slash gearbest it's an online store
for the geek streak in you or the loved
ones
of course I mean especially your loved
ones right because cat5 TV slash
gearbest quite frankly has all of the
greatest tech gifts that you could ever
hope for at rock-bottom prices to their
cellphones you betcha
cap five TV slash gear best has a wide
assortment of unlocked Android cell
phones and tablets what about compute
consumer electronics those make a great
gift absolutely from high tech watches
to action cameras headphones even
virtual reality headsets cat5 dot TV
slash gearbest has you covered
they literally have it all Jeff
literally really it's like a superstore
right from the comfort of your own chair
at your computer through the interweb
yeah I there's no way they have it all
it's true that's just a bunch of random
electronics s me what about clothes yep
both men and women fashionable apparel
at rock-bottom SuperDuper prices kinda
like this well look at this coat what do
you think it's a slimming mock leather
jacket I love it it's available for less
than $30 plus free shipping a cat5 TV
slash gear best yeah all right you kind
of got me there Wow
any other questions for me Jeff now that
the winter is past flying season do they
have any good deals on say comforters oh
my goodness well check this out dude
they have everything check out over 500
various drones and not only that they're
available marked down by about 32 up to
63 percent off the regular price love it
what's website again well you're gonna
find gearbest on our partners pages for
any of your favorite category 5 TV shows
like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat 5 dot TV
/ gearbest see that's easy tech 5 dot TV
/ gearbest
that's right happy shopping welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV and our
website is category 5 dot TV and we've
welcome back to the set Hillary Rumble
[Music]
wonderful yeah I you are with child a
little bit larger although the last time
you saw me I was child oh it's so good
to see it's so good to see you so what's
new I mean so you've got a baby girl and
this is a boy pretty sure yes
congratulations
stay tuned we'll be the next ones
running around the studio yeah yeah so
fun memories of category 5 now you were
do you know when you started I should
have done research on myself no right I
don't remember the year but I remember
it was because of Kari she entered only
that's right leaving departing I was
kind of hooked us up so that yeah
recruiting only top quality and I
remember my first episode I was so
nervous I didn't know what to expect
yeah and that was in Studio B as well
yeah um I brown hair at the time and I
didn't know what to expect but then I
loved and I was hooked I don't know like
five seasons you were here quite some
time I went off to school I still in
news
I was just thinking about that the other
night yeah because you were so committed
to category 5 TV that even as you're
away at school
we're still getting cut ins yeah you had
a drape hanging from your bed if I into
our own studio
and that it was nice to come back in
real life and not just be on my screen
yeah
so you've seen both of you have seen the
change is the transition between Studio
B which was a basement so this was an
office space in my in my old house then
we transitioned to the new house got a
nicer set yeah then moved into here and
look at us now just growing every time I
come here I'm like oh my gosh and not
even just the change in location but in
the quality the sound quality the video
quality like looking back over the
episode episodes leading up to today yes
like wow wow wow that's what we aim for
and we're all volunteers here we always
have been so part of it is that kind of
baby steps finding ways to get better
you know be it upgrading a camera here
there and things like that whatever we
can do so now we're gonna get into game
mode are you ready for round one are we
ready yes for round one of category five
technology TV the game show now on July
17th my birthday yes 2012 you and I were
sitting on the set we did an amazing
show in Studio C it was a fun show but
here we are more than five years later
and unfortunately the files are
corrupted so all we have now is the
video and the audio is completely kaput
so fortunately the video is there and
fortunately we have a resident
professional lip reader you do sign
language that's all I can do and you've
been doing this all your life so what
better person to help me to recover this
show so what we're going to do tonight
is we're going to use your capabilities
to flawlessly read the lips from episode
number what did I say it was 252
- and let's see if we can piece this
back together and bring this episode
back from 2012 so what's going on with
Wayne weird it's true I'm a princess
nope
Tai Chi is my thang people are the worst
some people are Buddhists to Buddha's
and it's that day of the month and the
day of the proposed Thursday when eerie
the boa and finally I got you what I
knew you would always want I knew you
wanted this it's a birthday girl matches
your dress perfectly I know and you
figured I know I'd want to try to
Thursday boy that's terrific babies cry
and I hope I don't get wet tonight hmm
once we get the shrapnel off this toad
Oh God
now of course I have to call Finn from
Star Wars to get the lightsabers there
sports I think I should go back to the
future why Wow hurts your DeLorean part
just be quick and you're back for John
before juice it's going to be a movie a
Jamba Juice movie it's gonna be me if
you think I'm gonna cry I don't have any
property and like sugar
I prayed something Bad's gonna happen
and I'm back from the future who are you
Freddie Mercury
unfair when you lose them wasting the
paper pickles mumbo-jumbo we do we do 10
points for Hillary and round 1 oh boy
that's kind of how it's gonna go tonight
folks oh boy fantastic such a wonderful
thing to be able to rebirth that all
right when we come back we have three
more rounds of category 5 TV The Game
Show and we've got Jeff Weston Sashadhar
made us here with us tonight stick
around we'll be right back
Jeff Weston GEMA you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what
aren't you your terrible actor what the
swear acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
that's true how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are gonna get
unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name so your own com nice to
put that amazing website that you've
been working on on there if you run if
you want to build a wordpress site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash DreamHost
just don't put that of a paper sorry
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're gonna find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV slash dream host its
category five technology TV episode
number five twenty three our tenth
anniversary games Oh welcome everyone
okay
so Saturday us me just before the break
Rickman this is gonna take some getting
used to for me to folks like snake so
for those of you who are like yeah
that's gonna take some getting used to
I'm even trying to figure out ya know
but I know but I did like just like that
I just say it's like when like a call
call letters change when we were working
at everything you just always say the
same thing wait remember that time we
change from Tuesdays to Wednesdays oh
yes right see you so you know how long
that but that was so you can come back
it is so I could come back yeah it was I
still say Tuesday's yes still today
I did it once so Sasha Rickman is here
with us the longest intro for Sasha ever
hello you you were back last week so yes
so here we are and again yeah season 10
and it's coming to a close season 11
starts next week and you've been with us
for Surrey because my first show was the
season 5 anniversary show was it now no
but is the first one I remember because
she was just over you nervous
well my defense mechanism has always in
my entire life it's really actually true
and it's hilarious but I don't remember
things that stress me out I blacked them
completely out of my memory but she came
back folks clear she blocked it out my
first episode that even when I watch
videos of it I don't remember like I do
not remember them I remember the first
time you saw it you said I like my hair
so we're gonna find out how stressed you
were a couple weeks ago do you remember
your wedding like I did I do
there was a pause you separate I do
remember it mostly because I was like
okay I'm gonna tell some secrets Dave
okay to be fair it was an open bar so
super nervous and then we well we were
not writing our own vows but we googled
some vows that we like that other people
wrote so and I found some vows that we
really would work well so I wrote mine
out and I wrote Dave's out and then the
day of the wedding when we were picking
our bouquets because we picked
wildflowers for a bouquets because we
are not only romantic but frugal and so
we were picking our bouquets and I said
to one of the guys that came to meet up
with the girls for this very reason I
gave him Dave's ring and I also gave him
Dave's vows and I said make sure Dave
gets these and he didn't he did a little
bit he said half the job
hey make sure they've got the ring so
then when we were actually exchanging
vows the officiant said so now it's time
to read your vows and they've just stood
there like oh I gave him my vows which I
had on me but I had written them hand
written them for each one of us so my
vows had his name in them and his fatwas
had my name in them but he was nervous
and so was I and he read his how many
times did he call you Dave speaking of
words getting mixed up yeah it's time
for round two okay
Oh as we jump into misinterpreted
interpretations because apparently when
you feed an English transcript from
category five technology TV into Google
Translate it can jumble some of the
words what translation though well I
thought you know should we just do
French should we just do Italian but no
we took it into Google Translate and
went with English to Japanese Japanese -
ah served Jean Bazar by Johnny say that
10 times fast
then from author by Johnny we went in -
do you have it
English English back to German then from
German to Icelandic and then back to
English again so when we did this we
found that Google kind of messes up the
words but the fact is is Google is you
know the only hope for somebody to get
captions or to be able to translate the
show into another language because we
don't have the the means to create those
captions so it's all Google all the way
you ready to find out what Google has to
say about it
we've got a clip from earlier this
season right
we're viewer sent in a question for us
Sasha are you ready I am ready
why does Jay Daniels offer Linux desktop
that looks like Windows all over the
world compared to other desktop
environments like gnome Ferrari and the
new Porsche I'm tired of messing up the
same Windows project many applications
and open windows open windows cause the
Windows 95
XP desktop to start it takes a lot of
time to use some menus on a touch works
well with a path or Mouse but does not
work well with a new laptop is that so
in my touch screen I love the big
buttons in the interfaces and such parts
I can say that touching makes sense to
open everything but with my computer
personally I'm old
I know however I love cyber work I felt
like you know Windows as I got it yes
it's a familiar truth but that's
ideology this is what I do for myself
well I grew up I studied so I love it
when I try to use a GUI I'd love it I
can find everything I know where they
are this is mine why does anyone
recommend this why does anyone do that
well I think Windows is exactly the same
as I'm from the world yes that's right
it is short and simple yes we do not
want to admit we are Linux supporters
but that's right well in most cases ask
your computer to say Microsoft Windows
operating system that's why it's called
this is free to provide Linux substitute
for other operating systems they say
well why do you like it you can share
the reasons you want freedom programs
low prices knowing to be upgraded it's
very hard to change paradigm when you
come out 8.1 remember Windows 8.1 came
out yeah
yes Microsoft said oh I'm trying to get
out of the Start menu and we cannot see
this foolish thing in the Metro yes
what happened game right so when I tell
you Linux try a try it if the idea was
completely different
the user the user you're looking for has
the head around them so it's
uncomfortable to make you feel
comfortable they are more likely to try
to learn how it works and now and now it
will no longer be a beginner noob and
they may try to play around other things
and an exciting time has come and for me
from a practical point of view my kids
I'm trying to install it on Linux
because they've used Windows computers
over their computers yes and to use
Linux from the windows interface they
struggle to compare it to the younger so
I love Windows because my child will be
easier to say hello why not Linux
because my computer has to boots
right so children are safer to use them
no matter what yes you do not have to
worry about malware insults or
corruptions probably it these oldest are
now more and more of course use Linux
using Linux use Linux that's why I love
it well I think that's a good reason I'm
going there I have an answer thank you
very much for that it's a great issue
and I 15 points for Jack 28 points for
Sasha the Translate I don't know what it
wasn't you said Sasha but it converted
it to an A with an accent aigu circle
circumvents okay so it's a Euro symbol
excellent circum sex AI comes some
circumvent euro it's like
came up with that imagine if you were
trying to take a track like our
transcript and translate it into your
native tongue we have viewers all around
the world like I'm talking everywhere in
the world save North Korea we are there
thank you to those of you who have been
tuning in over the past 10 years some of
you have been here since the get-go
pretty much some of you kind of showed
up along the way and went back and
watched some of the older episodes but
hey it is so nice to have you joining us
and it's been a lot of fun so it occurs
to me that sometimes this is a tech show
but if you are like using Google to
translate it's quite the comedy show for
it can be your welcome Linda I'm looking
at the chat room and Linda Linden says I
just snorted Dooley must have Dooley do
Vulcan must have bought something from
overseas because he says I have a tech
watch that my wife bought me and the
translation is so bad I cannot read it
wow that's and that's how they do at
Google Translate but Sir that's how it's
done folks
oh all right we've got to fade to black
when we come back it's time for round
three the voiceless news girl
this is category five technology TV and
it's time for round three the voiceless
news girl now there's a little story
behind that because there was once a
time when you were so sick
you couldn't even speak and yet you're
so committed to category 5 TV that you
were here reading the news but she had
no voice she couldn't speak that's kind
of how it was it is exactly thankfully
in round three sasha has an understudy I
want to get Carrie Webb on the set
Carrie is going to be showing us whether
she matches the lip-reading capabilities
of Hillary Rumble oh dear okay okay
let's do it you are you've lost your
voice so you're only allowed to
mouths the words of your news story now
a little hint for you this is a real
true news story this news story comes to
us from November 2nd 2016 on episode
number 476 you're allowed to control
your teleprompter you're allowed to do
the news just like you normally would
but you are not allowed to say anything
because that would be ideal
that would be perfect it's like the one
news story I remember all right and are
we ready for round three yes Sasha take
it away
I'm Sasha Rickman and from this moment
on I've lost my voice apparently a long
time ago in a galaxy far far away there
was lots of things happening about time
so nasty Oh little Johnny boy was very
first often and he hurting a lot so he's
really sad so actually the limbo land
and sometimes there's lots of things I
don't know about so probably shouldn't
look around for many more things Frankie
here's a pause
okay six points for an additional four
hundred and seventy-three thousand
points do you have any idea what that
news story was about the lava life
banquet like literally - just like
defining a new story yeah it was the
grandmas robot kitchen grew by kitchen
we've got time just for one more round
thanks you two wonderful job we got time
for one more round and we're gonna need
everyone for this one and now for round
4 round Jeff put in your retainer ja ja
I signed up for tech got this Justin
Sacher Jeff come on be a trouper now
your sentence please
so sasha has to explain the word that
she sees on this piece of paper which is
a piece of tech without using the word
itself this is a
that's not the color no it's not just to
get clean blue tubes how to get my list
to connect five TV the game show I think
I'd really make contact with Sasha so
eye contact so we did an episode where I
could not stop laughing thanks up yes
so we got Luke's dump 12 points for Jeff
way to go okay Sasha yeah we're gonna
switch there we go okay and it's time
for Hillary to take on our champion so
far Hillary are you ready yes yes I am
all right if your word this is a
technology for our final round it's
something that we've covered on the show
but Hillary must describe it in sentence
form Jeff eye contact with Hillary
please okay - it's not it's like
no it's not fruit he's not fruit okay
Jeff yeah I don't recall the last time I
had an Android I like it's lighten it
there and eye contact are you ready okay
I'm drilling ain't good so this
electronic device typically is used
radio frequency to fly around the area
we're not gonna take it
keep going
hilary minus three for all the drill
alright now Carrie Webb is on the set
and ready to compete with Hillary Rumble
who is currently our reigning champion
Hillary are you ready yes
Carrie are you ready yes the confidence
is contagious
Hillary your word okay here you go you
ready locked in my contact ladies I'm
sorry that's not a sentence - four
points next word okay this is a generic
word for alien on the show that is a
particular type of computer notion just
a little bit we subscribe to the
Internet
okay okay we'll give her 12 points how's
that how's that are you ready hey say a
word seriously are you ready this is
like really naughty things on the
no no no like really like really got to
like like like
and you Ohana
this shows Fiji and there's like it was
malware 12 points thank you to everybody
for being here with us tonight we had a
lot of fun and category-five TV and now
this is our 500th one that you can take
that out it's part of me now folks it's
been great having you here for the past
10 years unbelievable season 11 starts
next Wednesday night
I almost said Tuesday that's how it goes
and it's been a lot of fun tonight and I
want to say big thanks to everybody who
stood by us through community support
through your contributions through
shopping through our partner links and
just by being a viewer just being a part
of the show by tuning in each and every
week we appreciate you and we love
having you here and we're looking
forward to all the years that are to
come here on category-five TV so we'll
see you next Wednesday night take care
everybody
you
