welcome to category five technology TV
is episode number 576 and this week
we're gonna be taking a look back at
what we looked at last week yes yay but
this time we're gonna try to make it go
we're gonna try to make it work remember
we wanted to get a boo to Linux running
on Microsoft Windows but they kind of
failed yeah they didn't quite get it to
work out of the box well tonight I'm
gonna show you what happened and how to
fix it if it happens to you and you have
a new way to connect with us stick
around
this is category five technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
Technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs
category 5 TV streams live with
Telestream Wirecast and nimble streamer
tune in every week on roku Kodi Plex and
other HLS video players for local show
times visit category 5 TV category 5 TV
is a member of the tech podcast network
if it's tech it's here cat 5 TV slash
TPN and the international association of
internet broadcasters cat 5 TV slash ia
IB
welcome to the show this is category 5
technology TV I guess you've already
they probably already realized that
ain't probably yes probably said it a
few times by now how you been ok you all
right yeah hang in there yeah ologies
knocked me out allergies it was
allergies so for whatever is you
allergic to life at this point I believe
so flower I have a delicate flower no I
how are you something crazy bad the last
couple of weeks and a would not go away
and it actually led to a sinus infection
which is why I wasn't here last I'm
sorry a sinus infection a virus
inflexible so yeah bit hopped up on
antibiotics and everything it's like
good Oh allergies are not contagious
no so so we didn't need to pull out the
green screen tonight and put Jeff in and
that's just pretty like the Dalek yeah
there you actually punch this tendon
tonight we're gonna be looking back at
that Ubuntu distro that we installed on
Microsoft Windows now you were away last
week I was viewers were here but what we
did is we installed Ubuntu Linux on
Microsoft Windows users ok so we're
gonna be looking at that because it was
an absolute failure right yeah tonight
we're gonna show you how to get past the
point of the we're gonna call it the
hyper-v blue screen of death yes we're
gonna learn tonight yeah um quick note
category-five is now on discord if you
want to join our server just head on
over to our website there isn't an
invite there if you go to category 5 dot
TV click on interact
and you'll see the invite for the
discord server right there I was so
excited when you announced that you yes
I've been waiting for that for I
actually think I mentioned it to you
last year and for those who are like
what is discord Jeff what is discord
okay so if you're my little pony fan
discord is a cat dog what daughter
watches my little pony disclose
character oh no discord is a chat
program that is quite interactive and
diverse and a lot of the gaming
community happens to use it it's it's a
I don't even it takes
social media and mass communication to
the next level because you can have
connect all your different interest
groups and all that kind of stuff in one
platform and it's it's just wonderful I
have a question for you yes can I use
this to complete my transition off of
Facebook because right now I've kept
what's keeping you on Facebook that's
the question
messenger messenger private messaging
Craig chat rooms things like that that's
the only hair of messenger I have left I
don't have a Facebook I have left if all
of your friends have discord as well
then yes you could but it's well Jeff
how much does discord cost zero dollars
mmm is free doable let's do yeah yeah
and I've been using discord now for
about a year and a half I think and I
love it it's it's my favorite chat
program it's the easiest way for me to
connect with people and it's you know
that's got multimedia content so you
share videos pictures stuff like that
before the show I posted a video of me
setting up our new wireless microphones
yeah example with things like my RC chat
you can't do that you'd have to upload
it to YouTube
that's right a link to it and all that
yes so this Court takes it to the next
level and it's great
speaking of IRC so what is IRC that's
Internet Internet Relay Chat that's what
we've been using all these years so when
we talk about our chatroom IRC is where
you go so category five TV slash chat
what does this replace it no that's the
beautiful thing Jeff it supplements it
yes
so all those great features that you're
mentioning about discord that is now a
part of our community right
if you prefer IRC and a lot of people do
because IRC is just as you say it
doesn't have all that multimedia stuff
which some would say is I don't want
that I just want plain text I just want
you know I just want to be able to read
the chat and interact with the chatroom
right so if that's you you can you can
get involved in IRC if you want to use
discord you can do that what's up is
there an app on Linux for discord you
don't need to use an app but yes there
is but just go to discord app calm Oh
calm and you can just load it in your
browser that's right it's like a web 2.0
kind of thing but looking at the IRC
versus discord if you will okay we're
not about that I'm not I don't want to
replace the IRC I love it I don't want
to so okay I set out this week to bring
about discord in the category-five
community and create a bridge between
the IRC server and the discord so you'll
notice if you're on discord some of the
folks like bp9 tonight it says bond
well that's because bp9 is actually on
our IRC server oh that's perfect so
we're at really yes so if you're on IRC
you can chat with all the people on IRC
and on discord if you're on discord you
can chat with all the people on discord
IRC so they're completely interconnected
and in fact if you use the same nickname
on both freenode and discord or at least
if you rename yourself that in our chat
yeah it will it will show your avatar
and it will this court so it's really
really cool so do check that out I think
it's a great way to interact with us I
think it's gonna increase our
communication between the on-air crew
and and you folks at home as well and
and throughout the week right because
this will just stay running it runs 24/7
yeah so you just hop on there how their
nice thing that I do like about discord
Sasha yes IRC if you've ever joined it
through the week you have no idea what's
going on when you arrive you can't see
the past yeah yeah on discord however
when you join you can see all the
messages that have gone on so even if
bp9 has signed off of IRC I can respond
to be p9s questions and if they do
happen to
come on to discord they'll be able to
see the response yes and you can have
that interaction even when people are
offline it was discord you could also
have multiple rooms so if we decided to
have you know you know a raspberry pie
room with a that room
yeah then people could talk raspberry
pie you know if we wanted an ode Roy
people could talk about if we wanted a
soldering projects we can you know we
could create our own little rooms within
there which is kind of nice right now
we've just got the main general chat and
got one called off-topic so if you want
to talk about things that are completely
irrelevant to the show you can go in
there and it won't show up on the screen
ken is there really life outside the
show no okay so well you were like are
all your friends on this Court I'm like
you asked I mentioned there during our
discussion that we are on wireless
microphones tonight that is thanks to
music Pro thank you Gary and if you ever
is a music Pro in Barry
so music Pro Barry comm check them out
they're an amazing store it's like a
music shop and electronics for for audio
like they do sound systems and things
like that PA systems projectors and all
that kind of stuff check them out folks
they have they are so great to us
oh they I don't know if they love us but
we love them absolutely do so we're on a
rental agreement with these cordless
microphones for zero dollars that's a
steep price it's an amazing price we can
do basically the folks there said well
we love you too give it a try and see
how it works so this is our opportunity
and your opportunity to let us know hey
how do the microphones work and tonight
during our show we're pretty much on
this set but in the future when I need
to move over to do an unboxing or if I
need to move to another set I can just
skip over here and I don't have to do
any kind of crazy on wiring or dragging
cables around the studio if we have a
guest on the show there is a fourth
microphone as well beautiful they're
completely wireless so let us know what
you think this is awesome and big thanks
to music Pro Barry dot-com
also big thanks to our patrons because
hey if we love this thing we do have to
pay for it so it's your support and
those who use our partner links through
our website that are able to allow us to
do these kinds of upgrades now I
mentioned it to our patrons but season
12 is about to begin
can you believe oh my gosh category 5 TV
and I want it to be the best season of
category 5 TV ever
that means I've been on now for three
years three years has it been that long
yeah Wow but shortly after that we
covered up by five yeah you had a bit of
a flurry and then he came back to us
because we moved remember we moved it
from Tuesday's to Wednesday's so I could
live on Wednesdays I feel like
Wednesday's is our date Tuesday's like
doesn't come to me automatically it just
doesn't work anymore yes doesn't feel
right just doesn't feel right it was
kind of split up the week really nicely
for us doesn't it okay moving along with
all the talk of fan creations over the
past few weeks Jeff again you've been
away but you were here when we were
talking about were you here when we
talked about Star Trek no he wasn't
no thank you stage 9 you know the
virtual reality assist what they got a
cease and desist from CBS my reaction to
that's the whole world's can reaction
right now so uh why yeah exactly right I
know so look at the episode 575 if you
want to know my thoughts on the whole
situation so that you know that's a
community project uh yeah project that
was created and then shut down it's not
not the second one that's been give it a
cease-and-desist I feel like there have
been like well there been some some
fan-made films and things like that the
the guy who played Tuvok didn't he go to
start one a couple years ago yeah
yeah Star Trek renegades yes that looks
so good
yeah so good yeah and that got shut down
too so those are fan productions that
got shut down so and there are many that
keep getting shut down and it's sad so
there's kind of this accidental theme of
fan created content and soul who
actually reached out to us to remind us
about one that came out 15 years ago
really and is still in existence what
and it's exciting because they've
actually broken some records and they're
in fact the longest-running torrent file
in the entire world
yeah you guys remember this it's called
the what was it the something matrix fan
the fan matrix Fanny matrix Vanna matrix
anomie fan or matrix this it's based in
the matrix universe but you can search
for it it's on Vimeo as well but the
BitTorrent file is still available you
can download this it's a short fan made
fin but I haven't seen it yet but I'm
eager to see it and I've heard it's
really really good so cool but the
BitTorrent file for it is the oldest
BitTorrent in the world and and it
happened because you think about 2003
okay so this is two years before YouTube
was even conceived right okay so if I
wanted to bring out a fan film into thin
in nineteen what was a 2003 part of me
wasn't Napster still around that
probably probably so you think about
that that's really really tough for a
film content creator to distribute their
material imagine if like we came along
just before YouTube hit hit hit it big
and then we migrated from our own
platform over to and we were using all
kinds of services at the time because it
was such a young young media right but
we're only 12 years old
coming up on so when they brought it out
in 2003 they couldn't put it on a
website or they couldn't stream the
video because the sheer cost of that
back then would have been astronomical
oh for sure and there were there was no
YouTube there was no Vimeo there was no
blip TV there was nothing to put your
video on and
distribute it so they got in touch with
some folks and said okay how can we do
this and the IT folks got together and
said we can use this technology called
BitTorrent and they said what what's
that
and so they packaged it up and they put
it into a torrent file huh and people
started downloading it and then they
became seeds and then more people
downloaded here we are 15 years later
people are still seeding it people are
still torrenting it and it's free and
you can download it and it's legit it's
not an illegal torrent and and it's
still there 15 years later but they're
not producing episodes still no it's one
but one mini movie I think it's like 19
minutes long or something like that but
really well done really well done that's
cool so I had to make mention of that 15
years of the fana matrix or for our UK
friends is it the fanny matrix fanny
major Wow could be I don't know how they
pronounce it don't Google that FA and I
make matrix all one word oh no and n
wise in there oh we do have to take a
really quick break though when we come
back I'm really excited about this
because last week we did have a failure
with regards to getting a boon to
running on hyper-v on Microsoft Windows
10 and I think we've got the solution
yes I'm nervous are you nervous not
really no I pull it off I fake am I
gonna pull it off yeah you always pull
it off you're always a failure you're
gonna have to stick around and find out
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts welcome back this is
category 5 technology TV and last week
while sasha was here jeff was away but
sasha you remember we had Windows 10 and
we were looking at hyper-v and how we
could use it and the new features in
order to deploy Lubuntu 18 point o4 on
Windows right we were so excited oh
we're still so excited I mean this is a
great opportunity for those of you who
have never tried Linux to try it out
without any commitment and without
having to reformat your computer not
have to risk losing anything because
it's still it's just running on Windows
right so you can bring it up but Jeff
right at the end we got it all set up
it's working great it's going yeah
woohoo and then we try to login it's
just like we're gonna call it the
hyper-v blue screen of death it didn't
do anything and then it started doing
this kind of logout login logout Lou
okay yeah so I was like okay they
haven't quite got it and I uploaded the
video anyways to YouTube in particular
and and thought oh man folks are gonna
come down on me so hard here because you
know anytime I mess up a feature they
that you know right on YouTube it starts
with the whole the test stuff before you
do it
why don't you because we're a live show
because we're live show and I want me to
experience the same problems that you
yes may experience because if I just
figure it out beforehand and then I do
it and it works perfectly because I
already figured it out and I already
worked everything out then how how are
you gonna figure it out if you get stuck
so tonight we're gonna take it from
where we left off we're gonna say okay
hey if that happened to you if you got
stuck with the hyper-v blue screen of
death trademark 20 yeah then we're gonna
show you how to get past that tonight
and get this thing up and going
alright I'm gonna jump over to my laptop
here and this is right where we left it
so now this time so you type hyper-v and
you we use hyper-v quick create the new
feature in Windows 10 in order to create
the virtual machine but we've already
done that now because it's already
created we're gonna bring up hyper-v
manager this allows us to access already
running already created virtual machines
now you can see that it's running in the
background so if you've noticed since
doing this that why is my CPU being used
why is there some Ram being used it
might actually still be running so don't
forget to shut it down just like you
would a normal computer because
otherwise it is using resources on your
computer but it's running right now and
I'm going to connect and Jeff I'm gonna
show you in the community what is what
was happening here so let's connect I've
made it fullscreen there we go
works great right yeah okay login Robbi
password test test one two three ready
for it hit enter in three two one go
go keep going go okay it's not gonna
mess up this time
yeah but you tell me Jeff or is this the
blue screen that's the hyper-v blue
screen of death Oh gotcha I'm expecting
like error code but I see something
happens it doesn't work again another
show ruined let's fix it shall we okay
so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna close
out of this because remember I'm not
actually closing the virtual machine I'm
closing the connection to it it's like
remote desktop okay into a virtual
machine now I'm gonna tell you what the
problem is first thank you okay
the problem is during setup I chose to
have my user account automatically login
if you haven't downloaded your virtual
appliance yet when you see that prompt
when you get to that point when you're
setting up the user account do not check
that box if you leave it set to OFF it
will work out of the box right okay so
that happens to be the problem for those
of you who have set it up already and
you're you're trapped out of your
machine we're gonna show you how to do
that tonight
I want to back up just really really
quickly and talk really briefly about
how we came about it now this was a real
community effort over the past week
because we had to figure out how do we
fix this so we can show the viewers it
started with that with marsh man
installing several copies of this on his
Windows 10 machine and got some of them
working and some of them not working and
why is and and trying to get what's the
difference in the process why did one
work and one didn't and then see 120 ad
also ran some tasks they got it working
but only if you turned off enhanced
session mode but that was crippling to
the to the responsiveness it was like
slow and the whole idea here that the
reason we're so excited about this
feature in hyper-v is because it has
enhanced session mode aka and while or
via xrdp that's what is making this so
exciting right
you could always install Lubuntu on
hyper-v but it always did not have
enhance session mode so by turning it
off see 120 ad was able to get it to run
and able to login and it worked just
fine but it was really wrong which is no
good countered that that's pretty
miserable but then Chris Whelan on
YouTube made the connection and said I
think it's because of the automatic
login I created one and I made sure not
to check off automatically log in and it
works as everything else does the
session mode everything else was done
the same but just not checking off that
box okay right so then I took kind of
the accumulated knowledge that we all
learn together and packaged it up into
this video that is happening right now
live and I'm going to show you how to
fix this so first of all I'm going to
connect to that machine by right
clicking and hitting connect then we're
gonna I mean you can make it fullscreen
you do whatever right now I just want to
connect so just connect and we're gonna
look at what both c128 D and marsh man
kind of alluded to and kind of pointed
toward which is that enhanced session
mode so wait for it because right now
it's grayed out I have to wait for it to
try to connect so let's see if it
connects and in this set and this with
this problem sometimes you have trouble
connecting so that's scream you see that
xrdp this login screen it doesn't look
like the traditional Kubuntu login right
that's because this is powered by xrdp
which gives us the enhanced session mode
so based on what I learned from c128 D
and marsh man we need to turn off
enhanced session but Robby that's gonna
kill your performance yes it is however
now I can log in just like normal watch
this test test one two three I'm in I
can close out or whatever right okay I'm
in huh so now activities just type the
word user
and you're gonna see let's see users
wait for it
try again users visit account let's try
count details
no that's not what I want wait for it
it's really it is really laggy when
you're when you're running without that
so much for that accumulated knowledge
oh I know is it a capital you know Oh
user account ironically when I typed log
in as the search I get user accounts
let's so that's what we're looking for
user accounts okay huh so it comes up if
you type the full thing maybe it's just
truncating the list and when I type user
maybe there's too many and it's dropping
off the bottom so type user space
accounts and that will definitely get
you there okay click on it no that's not
the one
no that's not the one Oh boon - I hate
when you do that kind of thing no
account details no that's not what I
want user users come on now you -
laughter yeah it's not an ideal
out-of-the-box situation here folks what
happens when I clicked account details
why does it want me to install something
is it because you turn something off no
I didn't turn anything off should I
install that Jeff maybe it doesn't have
the right thing installed no can't see
you not being able to I gotta try it
folks I yeah I'm gonna try install it
like just letting it install that maybe
there's something missing
so see what loading ad says you want
account details so my guess is you have
to install it it doesn't look like it
comes with the virtual machine maybe
it's a stripped-down version of Ubuntu
and it's just not there ah solving
orders about wording the GUI command in
terminal what does that what is the fee
in that you're asking about he just said
what about running the GUI command in a
terminal what's the GUI command we're
looking for the I have no clue I'm just
reading off this court shot this install
folks this is the account details that
it keeps taking me to I
I'm surprised that it's not already
there though
not wrong because users is it it good we
have a whole hour let's see let's see
what else Robbie Ferguson what happens
when I click on Robbie Ferguson account
settings and it takes no there it is
okay so try ok folks so so see so it's
not the account details yeah so I found
a little bit of a way to get to it
without doing the search so I can
actually can I cancel this no it doesn't
even let me cancel it I'm just gonna X
out of that so the way that I did find
it
this is hacky and and again for those
who would I wish I could just can I just
close this window just leave me alone
again I take the approach with our show
that I want to I want to encounter these
problems because I want I want to figure
it out with you ok so I'm gonna click
here see that little drop-down arrow at
the top right and I click on my name
then I can click on account settings and
it does take me there that's where I
want to be that's what I was looking for
users hello ok click on unlock up at the
top right and it asked me for my
password this is the one that I created
and now I can turn off automatic login
so keep in mind I had to unlock first
remember that was inaccessible while
this was a locked application now that I
unlocked it and entered my root password
I can turn off automatic login ok close
this window now
oh great account details is installed
that's it
alright so now that that's done now I'm
gonna change I'm gonna restore this
window so that it is now not full screen
and I'm gonna click on that arrow again
and I'm gonna hit the power button and
no I'm not gonna hit the power button
what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna hit my
name Robby Ferguson log out now log out
okay we're back at the traditional long
to login screen cut in a roundabout time
getting here
but we got here so here we're here it's
the adventure that counts
absolutely okay so now that we're at
this screen so we have logged out of the
Ubuntu machine in the normal mode not
enhanced mode now I'm gonna go view and
turn back on enhanced session now I'm
back here
okay so maximize that and are we ready
Robbie test test one two three and
Sasha's crossing her fingers Jeff come
on and hit enter and ladies and
gentlemen low and behold we have purple
yeah now we're gonna have much better
responsiveness because we've got xrdp
enhanced session mode running out of the
box now I can shut down I can reboot I
can real aughh in with that enhance
session mode and it's going to work yes
so I want to see what this is all about
just like we had planned last week I
want to see what it's all about so we're
gonna take a really quick break when we
come back we're gonna take a quick tour
of a boon to 16 to 18 point oh four
point one running on Windows 10 right
after this
[Applause]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV we've
got it working
Ubuntu 18.0 4.1 is running on Microsoft
Windows 10 now just to reiterate this is
actually a window on Microsoft Windows
10 using hyper-v manager and that was
installed on episode 575 so if you want
the step-by-step on how to install it go
back to episode 575 of category 5
technology TV but watch what what you
find here when you go hyper-v quick
create on Windows 10 with the fall
creators update and in there you're
gonna now see the ability to deploy
Ubuntu 18 point Oh 4.1 and it's gonna
work for you right out of the box with
all of the information that you've
learned here today SAS - why are you
laughing it's going to work out of the
boxes turns out that you get in trouble
if you use capital letters oh right yes
oh did you get reprimanded by the bots
fantastic third time you get banned for
30 minutes okay so here it is it's a
boon to running on Windows so if you're
a Windows user and you don't want to
wipe your hard drive and lose everything
that you've already got set up
this is a great way to test it out you
can try Linux it's absolutely free and
because you're doing it through hyper-v
you're just installing it as an
application on your computer and you
don't have to wipe anything out or do a
boot or set up anything difficult so
let's get a quick look and a quick look
it is so we've got Firefox we've got
Thunderbird which is male kind of
similar to Outlook Express back in the
day we've got our file browser we've got
rhythm box is kind of like an iTunes
like thing libreoffice writer' which
we've looked at here on the show
software for installations help Amazon
and initial setup which is the screen
here which probably walks me through
some of the things that I've skipped
over you'll want to go through that
I just find it like it's a big window on
my screen taking up space okay so click
on this guy down here you're gonna see
all the applications that come
pre-installed it's pretty yeah and
remember that this is built kind of for
touchscreen so if I drag with my mouse
I'm actually gonna be able to move
things around just like you were on a
tablet like on Android or something like
that you can see that it looks like it's
got support for Bluetooth and things
Firefox let's bring it up and see what
what it looks like I mean it's it's
gonna be what you expect right there's
Firefox mm-hmm jump over to YouTube it
runs so the nice thing about doing this
is you can do your web surfing we talked
about sashes
we talked about getting roms and things
like that and people saying well I don't
have Linux I can't install Linux how can
I do this safely because it's there are
a lot of malicious malware and things
that you can catch from those kinds of
things you can do it on here yeah in a
virtual machine
it's Linux exact and it's not going to
infiltrate your windows filesystem so
that's everything right so here we are
in YouTube let's do a quick search for
category 5
we're just kind of posed in there for
discord sorry it sounded quiet there for
a moment
okay so there's category 5 technology TV
and there we are and there it goes
and it's working and it's playing right
out of the box all right so that's
Firefox we know all about that it's got
writer so I imagine that means if I
click here and type calc
it's got LibreOffice calc which is your
oh yeah and this is a new version to
look at this so there's your kind of
Excel spreadsheets and things but it's
absolutely free version 6.0 point 3.2 I
don't know what that version was so yeah
yeah yeah so there there you have it
folks so it's up and running it's a boon
to Linux in Microsoft Windows wait
you're gonna do this at home you can do
this at home do it at home do that
Windows 10 you're stuck on Windows 10
you want when the next we started with
which to Windows 10 for games and now we
can do this so there are a couple of
quirks out of the box we have found that
I mean this is a project that is
officially endorsed by both canonical
Ubuntu and Microsoft Microsoft worked
with the open source community to make
this work and it's not perfect right out
of the box because of that one little
quirk don't check off automatically log
in and if you do that you leave it off
you're gonna be good to go so enjoy
that's a boon to 18 point oh four point
one running on Windows 10 through
hyper-v good tabs we're gonna jump over
to your newsroom Sasha I gotta move out
of your way don't oh don't do I yet no I
don't have to yet we're still we're
still learning how everything works
around here we're new this is season one
welcome to the first episode ever of
category yes but you do need polished
because the teleprompter the
teleprompter yep yes this is some
professional television but I've got a
wireless mic pack so we can kind of snug
over here I can take and you have all
that space Sasha it's all use this is
what happened last time
all right here are the stories were
recovering this week in the category 5
TV newsroom Elon Musk has been forced to
step down as chairman of Tesla but will
remain as CEO Amazon's newest
brick-and-mortar store sells only
top-rated product and Prime members pay
the online price in store while everyone
else pays more
the first UEFI malware has been
discovered in the wild it's a piece of
laptop security software hijacked by
Russians and NASA's Kepler telescope has
been sent back to sleep as scientists
preserve fuel for the next data dump
these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Weston Jemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what are you okay you're a
terrible actor what this where acting
comes into play you're supposed to act
okay I'm building a really cool website
are you building a really cool website
just because Jeff is confused doesn't
mean you have to be visit cap five dot
TV slash dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host this is
the category 5 TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux bias i'm sasha Rickman and here
are the top stories were following this
week Elon Musk has reached a settlement
with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on the charges filed last
week over his abandoned attempts to take
Tesla private private musk will have to
step down as the chairman of Tesla
within 45 days and will not be able to
take up that role with the company again
for three years he'll be able to remain
Tesla CEO during that time alongside the
settlement SEC the SEC also charged
Tesla with failing to have required
disclosure controls and procedures
relating to Musk's tweets according to
the agency Tesla has already agreed to
settle this charge both musk and the
company will pay separate twenty million
dollar fines that will be distributed to
harmed investors under a court approved
process according to the SEC and Tesla
is being made to appoint two new
independent directors to its board
according to the according to the
agreement the company will also hire a
lawyer to monitor Musk's communications
including his tweets the SEC opened an
investigation into Musk and Tesla in
early August shortly after the CEO
abruptly announced on Twitter that he
was considering taking the company
private as at a share price of 420
dollars musk said that he had the
funding secured to pull off the feat and
that support from investors was
confirmed as well while ma supported lis
held multiple meetings with Saudi Saudi
Arabia's sovereign wealth fund about
backing the privatization effort the SEC
argued that its law in his lawsuit that
musk did not have a solid deal in place
and that's therefore his tweets were
false and misleading to investors the
first hearing in the SE C's case against
musk was scheduled for February the
Department of Justice reportedly still
has an opening a nope
investigation into his failed private
private citation a privatization attempt
and a number of shareholders have sued
musk in court for a losses resulting in
the alleged market manipulation Wow so
whoops this was interesting yeah this is
interesting I wanted to hear your
opinions on this being so in involved in
legal matters and yeah I deal with labor
or not okay not stocks but this is an
interesting one because musk has a
history of making comments on social
media that probably should have been
better thought out oh sure and the fact
that he threw this one out there and
when I first saw it I actually thought
it was some sort of a tweet to do with
marijuana because 420 is the number for
me I want and I mean in Ontario they're
about to legalize it and so I thought
there was something to it I guess made
that connection because he made comments
not long ago about somebody smoking dope
or something there was something about
he was gonna privatize it for marijuana
there was something to it so when I saw
it I thought yeah yeah so I didn't think
much of it I thought it was a reaction
to his drug comments from sometime in
the summer I think it was less amix came
up with somebody else but I don't
believe it was and so that's why I
thought it was pretty sure Elon Musk
smokes marijuana well I believe I boss
would it's true so but when I saw this I
was like oh that's it's like some joke
but then when I read this outcome I was
like oh my gosh he actually had this
deal in hand that wasn't solidified i
100% percent think that they're right if
the ink is not on the paper here's what
I think
Elon Musk probably thought that it was
solid cuz why would he tweet it
otherwise but why would he do that but
here's that okay here's my other thought
and I'm you may be thinking this as well
doesn't everybody seemed to be
twittering a lot of things they
shouldn't be tweeting yeah I know my
viewers can't think of anyone who tweets
things but they shouldn't be tweeting
and
how come you on musk now has to be a
watch because of the SEC that's right
because it has to do with market
manipulation I mean if we learned
anything from Martha Stewart it's how to
make decorations out of diapers and how
that you cannot manipulate them are not
in trouble exactly but I feel as though
how come his tweets are being monitored
and not everybody's tweet security
everybody's being monitored but this is
totally different he talked about taking
a multi-billion dollar company private
I'll be announcing on Twitter yeah you
can't do that no I mean I know you can
ignorance is not in a sense however that
the market reacts so negatively to it
though proves that when we can look at
something like that and say oh that's oh
he's silly again or you know we can look
at some I think there's a that we're in
such an interesting time where we're so
social media-based oh for sure yeah so
what's to say Elon Musk can and I'm just
he's the example in the news story but
why can't he just tweet yeah I could go
on Twitter and I could I could say oh I
hate this that is coming up case in
point I think it was in like spring it
was a Khloe Kardashian made some comment
about Instagram I don't know I don't
find like no I remember reading this
like tens of thousands of people some of
what I've done with Instagram sure
because of one tweet I'm pretty sure was
inserted so when you have a major
following but when you have a major
following and you're such a like you
globally know one individual you gotta
be so careful about what you say all the
time yes so who makes us accountable for
that who makes me accountable to the
fact that I have a lot of viewers that
are watching my Twitter feed and I need
to I need to I don't get involved in
politics cuz I know it's polarizing and
my views really don't matter in the
grand scheme of things right but the
difference is you don't have a
multi-billion dollar company
I don't have that platform that's for
sure truth be told the stock market I
guess I can understand it in a little
bit because Dave has been doing some
stock market interest things and so I
get that he reads the news every night
and he decides what he's gonna figure
out and what he's gonna buy and what
he's gonna sell and so I mean he's not
on Twitter either but if you were on
Twitter and he had a stock he might sell
or buy because of a tweet perhaps but
isn't it kind of that's weird people
would do that I know that's what makes
the stock market move that's also why
every youtuber and even here on category
5 whenever we're talking about
cryptocurrency we have our crypto
correspondent on it stated that this is
not investment advice no and if you ever
watch any kind of market stuff on
YouTube you know anyone who's wise is
saying this is not marketing advice I'm
just telling you my opinion yeah this is
why you hear that statement so I wonder
is is it more that there is no
accountability on social media should
there be something in place and maybe
this is an idea maybe this is something
that companies like Twitter companies
like Facebook need to implement and my
thought my idea Jeff is why not have an
accountability feature for individuals
who have that level of a platform so for
example if I become the President of the
United States yeah if I am the president
or the CEO of a multi-billion dollar
company then I fall into this
accountability platform feature okay so
now I can still tweet I can still say my
thoughts I can still say everything that
I want but there's a second level almost
like a two-factor authentication that
has to go through my people or the
people who are are working with me to
keep me accountable so that so you could
be my accountability buddy on Twitter
okay right for words of response okay
George Orwell thought police
no no 100% no you can't do something
until somebody says yes it's acceptable
no I'm not saying
somebody I'm not saying Twitter I'm
saying I'll say to you hey Jeff you've
been working with us for three years now
we appreciate you I'd like to make you
my accountability buddy on Twitter are
you into that because I realize my
platform is too big and I may make
mistakes so now anytime I tweet you get
a message that says here's what Robbie
is about to tweet are you cool with that
yes or no I just think maybe Sasha
should be my so what happens if or your
what happens if what you want to say is
perfectly fine and Sasha Gotha is my
board of directors though the board of
directors can remove you know the board
of directors should be able to say note
that we're not gonna let that go to
tweet because that's going to affect
market manipulation but they're my board
of directors I'm not saying give the SEC
control I'm not saying give Twitter
control I'm saying give my group to
Twitter no no no it'll never stand up
never stand up but that's why the SEC is
there the SEC is there to make sure that
there's no market manipulation that but
Elon Musk is a human being and one human
being who when he's got his phone in his
hands he's not accountable to anyone
that he's talking he's accountable to
the world he's a human and he makes
mistakes and I make mistakes
Shirley shook the hand of somebody who
he believed he had a deal with and then
he tweeted about yes but this isn't the
1920s where your word is your bond in a
man we're in a legal world where you've
got to sign a document imagine if ABC
could say yes or no to Roseanne's tweets
keys okay so fine you want to go with
that but here's the thing people will
live and die by their social media
presence in today's culture and and so
if Roseanne had have been silenced on
her tweet no not silence just moderated
moderated by her team okay but still by
silence supervisor they wouldn't allowed
that to tweet to go out but then you
would be essential that person no I
understand that I would select my wife
and my wife would say this is
why I think you shouldn't say that right
I'd say okay yeah you know what they're
I think maybe you're right maybe I need
to reword that okay fair enough but if
that was the case does not agree with me
I don't know the whole rest of the show
is we need to convert him to believing
in them not think is it Pro Robbie or
Pro Jeff no it's just basically you hate
me it's not about Pro it's about if
you're gonna start regulating what
people can say on social media there's
no point to social media I'm not saying
that they should ring there is
treasonous I understand Jeff I'm saying
I can we just have freedom of thought
but not freedom of speech we just know
we need to we need to wrap up the
thought we need to move on but here's my
final thought to make it clear I'm
saying I
Elon Musk can appoint someone that I
trust an accountability partner who
would therefore be responsible and
capable of preventing me from
accidentally saying something that I
really would regret in hindsight okay
where's the button to move this to the
next year story the button has already
been pushed please comment below let us
know who's right
another brick-and-mortar Amazon store
opened its doors this Thursday Amazon
forests are at a new location in New
York City's SoHo district the retail
giant's new store only sells products
that have been rated four stars or above
on amazon.com plus Amazon's own products
the company writes in a blog post that
Amazon a four star is a direct direct
reflection of our customers and in a way
that's true the average rating for all
items in Amazon's four star is 4.4 and
the most items and most items have
hundreds of thousands of online star
ratings and reviews Amazon stock the
store with customer electronics kitchen
and home items toys books games and more
but it doesn't contain every single
product that has a four star rating or
higher discovery appears to be one of
the main purposes of the
store not only does the store highlight
the most loved items on amazon.com but
the company also organizes them into
specific categories like most wished for
trending around NYC and Amazon
exclusives
as with most Amazon endeavors Prime
members reap benefits in the new store
they'll pay the amazon.com price while
non Prime members pay MSRP digital price
tags list both prices as well as the
amount Prime members save the average
star review for the item and the total
number of reviews over the past few
years Amazon has pushed its way into the
brick-and-mortar space after
understanding its benefits for a
primarily online business the company's
acquisition of Whole Foods gave hundreds
of stores in the u.s. through which
customers could buy groceries and other
household items and through which Amazon
could expand its services such as
grocery delivery and pickup Amazon has a
number of other stores too Amazon book
stores sell only the most popular books
on it on its website and cashier lists
Amazon Go stores acts as the company's
slowly expanding convenience store chain
Amazon Go is arguably the company's most
strategic brick-and-mortar play as it
allows Amazon to track customer behavior
in store using cameras and its mobile
app it's rumoured that Amazon wants to
open 3,000 Amazon go stores by 2021 in
addition to gleaning more insight into
customer shopping habits Amazon for star
also gives the company another physical
location to showcase its own devices
Amazon for star has tables dedicated to
the newest echo and fire TV devices
brick and store brick-and-mortar stores
give customers the opportunity to play
around with Amazon devices that they may
not have seen in person before buying on
amazon.com currently it's unclear if we
could see more Amazon forest stores in
open and other locations in the future I
like this idea neat I like this idea I
think that perhaps they should probably
have every Amazon warehouse have an
Amazon forest are at the front of the
web oh you remember the source yes
RadioShack
Tandi they do the same thing yeah the
store in front of the work those of you
who don't live here in Barry where our
studio is you think of RadioShack and
you just think of the little pop-up
stores and the malls and things like
that but here in Barry where it's where
it's warehouse where it's based it's
like a giant warehouse with a store
attached to it it makes so much it makes
a lot of sense for you don't have to
worry about inventory mm-hmm I like the
idea of being able to well there's two
two sides to this that I think are
really smart first Amazon is giving
Prime members the the dot-com price so
walk in you get the discounted price
which is usually ridiculously cheap
compared to what it's listed as yeah the
list price is always like ridiculous
nobody would ever pay that right the
discounted web price is the real price
the one that they say it's discounted
from is like take the MSRP and add
another three hundred points to it and
that kind of thing but by getting Prime
members to come into the store what is
Prime free shipping yes right so who
pays for that Amazon so getting you into
the store now they're cutting costs huge
because everything that I buy on Amazon
through Prime I just get it shipped to
me for free get it shipped to me for
free so I don't even really at this
point I don't really think about that I
like I'll order something that's a
dollar and I'll order something that's
ten dollars and that's a hundred dollars
and they don't get packaged together so
somebody's paying for that Amazon is
paying for that walk into the store they
just cut their shipping fees right out
as well as the workforce mmm I don't I
don't necessarily agree with that their
cash earless stores
well that's Amazon go we're not it was
on for Star and Ian Amazon for Star I
think because I'm an Amazon Prime member
I know there's a lot of Amazon's to keep
track of so Amazon for Star which a I
think that they should also keep it was
on three store cuz that would be great
too but Amazon four star if they had one
say in Bury say on you know our popular
Bayfield Street wager there
like Sears just closed down do they have
all that space right now so they have
like a warehouse there and they have a
see old target right to make this
topical yeah right
so then they have that and then they
have the store in the front but they
have the warehouse behind your one and
then they can ship things from online
orders as well they're kind of like two
birds one stone yeah yeah but Amazon's
going with third-party shipping like
they're looking for people to pick up
the contracts here's what I like I like
that I can go into the store and I can
try the product yeah that's true I can
pick it up and I can see it I can if
let's say something in the for in Amazon
for is a four star is the swimsuit that
I bought for my daughter now when I
bought the swimsuit for my daughter I
bought three of them mm-hmm
they ship to them to me separately I
didn't pay for the shipping they did we
chose one and we sent the other two back
Amazon paid for the shipping to return
it so think about that for a second I
have not had to go through that process
they haven't had to pay shipping and
return because a lot of folks that's
that's our way to shop now yep you can't
try things on you can't you can't check
it if it works with your devices no
you've got to wait until you get it try
it then return it if it doesn't work for
ya right so now they've done away with
that I think it's pretty brilliant
pretty brilliant think of the diesel
fuel that has been saved Jeff ESET
research has published a paper detailing
the discovery of a malware campaign that
used repurposed commercial software to
create a backdoor into computers who
firmware the rootkit has been active
since at least early 2017 and is capable
of surviving the reinstallation of the
operating system or even a physical hard
drive replacement
well the malware has been spotted
previously he says research is the first
to show that it was actively attacking
the firmware of computers to establish a
tenacious foothold Dubbs LoJack's the
malware is the first case of an attack
leveraging the UEFI boot system being
used in an attack by an adversary and
based on the way the malware was spread
it is highly likely that it was
authorized by a Russians
sponsored operation tied to the
cyberattack on the Democratic National
Committee there have been a number of
security concerns about UEFI potential
as a hiding place for other for rootkits
and other at malware the UEFI is
essentially a lightweight operating
system in its own right making it a
handy place for attackers to hide root
kits that can't be seen or protected
from the system's OS WikiLeaks vault
seven files showed that the CIA
apparently developed an implant for
Apple's computers that use the
predecessor of UEFI but required
physical access to the targeted computer
and a malicious Thunderbolt Ethernet
adapter but LoJack's is an entirely
different animal it was able to it was
built to be deployed remotely using
malware tools that can read and
overwrite parts of the UEFI firmwares
flash memory while LoJack shows all the
hallmarks of a state-funded attack the
developers had a little bit of had a
head start when it came to the UFE UEFI
pay light payload they borrowed from a
commercial software product that was
purpose-built to stay active in a
computer's firmware LoJack's rootkit is
essentially a modified version of the
2008 release of the LoJack anti-theft
agent from absolute software known at
release as computer ace the firmware
module ensured a software small agents
they've installed on the computer which
connected to an absolute webserver even
if the computer had its drive wiped
in other words coffee trice was a
commercially developed firmware rootkit
in another bit of boring if the code in
the malicious UEFI UEFI module uses an
NTFS driver to access the windows desk
partition to make changes in install its
agent this ntfs driver was stolen from
leaked software written by the milan
based information security and offensive
hacking for hire company hacking team so
this so really this Russian
state-sponsored reek it was a team
what do you say the UAF I you you want
to trust it like this is the think of
your BIOS when you first turn on your
computer it detects your hard drives and
it tells the operating system what kind
of hardware you have right right so if
they hack that this is higher level than
the operating system itself so it
doesn't matter if you're running Windows
or Linux or whatever you might be
running your computer is basically
infiltrated before it ever gets to that
operating system yeah so now it can
start manipulating things a rootkit
meaning hey maybe it becomes root on
your Linux machine and maybe it has
access to monitoring your keystrokes or
who knows what else they could do okay
so first off I believe it's only for
Windows so far
oh it's a rootkit in the UEFI so it can
it may be the infection itself would
happen that's what it means yeah I think
it's only like impacted Windows so let's
say you do a boot yeah so if you do a
boot you get into Windows and you get
that rootkit malware it installs itself
in the UEFI then you reboot into Linux
the UEFI loads your drivers and
everything else and then infiltrates
your Linux system and becomes root user
and does whatever else on your Linux
system because it's bare the UEFI so
even if you wipe out your hard drive
over and over and over again even if you
pull that hard drive out drill holes
through it smash it with a sledgehammer
install a new hard drive boot it up with
a new operating system you're still
infected it's a microchip built into the
motherboard of your computer what
bothers me about this is Sasha mentioned
it was kind of a throwback to a 2008
issue actually a mercial software that
is legitimate it's like people from to
help people to be able to find their
stolen device which is fine you know
what that means that since 2008 at least
we've know that this is capable why
wouldn't they have closed that loophole
unless you does the loop is by design
right yeah
that's it is if you build it if you
build the technology it will be used for
malicious purposes surely to be very
careful when we build the technology I'm
talking to you artificial intelligence
that it cannot be used for malicious
purposes yeah you're talking to
artificial intelligence this shows now
for humans and Kepler's resurrection
from hibernation has been short-lived
nASA has put the veteran Space Telescope
back to sleep its back into sleep mode
after it was up and running for less
than a month the probe sent to sniff out
expect so planets that maybe it may lie
in habitable habitable zones around the
stars is expected to run out of fuel
soon launched in March 2009 the Kepler
mission was planned for only three and a
half years when it was preparing for
takeoff however NASA found that the
rocket could carry spare mass and
decided to add enough fuel to last for
10 years it has now been flying for nine
and a half years and supplies are slowly
petering out ground control has powered
Kepler down to a state that doesn't
require any fuel so that the agency can
save what's left for what they call deep
space network time on October 10th
Kepler will be restarted and directed to
point its antenna back to earth in the
hopes that it will be able to transmit
data back home Kepler has found more
than 2600 exoplanets so far a recent
notable find is wolf 503 be a nearby
super earth-sized planet orbiting a
bright star at approximately twice the
size of Earth Wolf 503 B is a
representative of the most common size
of planets Kepler found an account in
the galaxy however since there are no
planets this size in our own solar
system we have a lot left to learn about
planets of this size NASA said hopefully
targets like wolf 503 B can be observed
further with Kepler's successor the
transiting exoplanet survey satellite
launched in April this year
nice yeah does it use lidar
the new one no I don't believe so
because both tests and Kepler are
imaging satellites so they're they have
CMOS sensors like a digital camera Oh
Kepler had many of them I think like
almost a hundred CMOS sensors so it was
getting maybe it wasn't that many you
know maybe it was almost 100 megapixels
among them okay I don't know too much
about but but so they had a whole bunch
of camera sensors taking pictures so
digital pictures to get light
information so if it sees light it sees
that that's a planet that's a planet
that's a son that's and is it you're
able to figure it out based on the
photography it's practically a really
high-resolution picture lidar on the
other hand is lasers for topography
right right so that would be ideal in a
case like orbiting Mars right right we
want to get the top ography we want to
learn what's under the surface lidar
would be great for that the finding you
know maybe we get out to Jupiter and and
find out what's going on down there you
know that kind of stuff
base x-ray exploration it blows my mind
interesting yeah oh me too and I'm
excited about like what's to come
Tess is an interesting one though Kepler
orbits the Sun mm-hm and is taking
pictures out into space okay and and so
I guess it gets good light and has this
massive array of like ninety-six
megapixels worth of image data coming
back to and you imagine okay if you've
got a 32 megapixel camera like this is a
massive image coming back this camera
and that's that was like you know that's
the biggest camera that they had in 2009
when it launched or they're downloading
all this data right now that we don't
have right we haven't seen it yet is
that one oh that's right yeah that's
right so that means we're gonna have all
of this incredible that's the hope if
they can get it to broadcast one last
time imagine that they won't be able to
they've got it the new satellite tests
is orbiting Earth Oh
which is the you know I very different
orbit so we're gonna be able to see
things that Kepler never ever saw
and when I say orbiting or if it's Earth
it's not like like one of our satellites
it's way out there do you have it in
Earth and I think it's a bit further
than the moon kind of thing so or into
space distance yeah but it only has four
sensors and when I say sensors like
think of when you take the lens off of
the DSLR and you look inside there's a
sensor that's your imaging sensor your
CMOS and or a CCD and they have four of
those side-by-side so I'm like are they
super high-resolution no they're like 16
megapixels so I don't know what we're
gonna see from this new satellite it
will be interesting it'll be it'll be a
lot and here's how I know that because I
once read in like an Uncle John's
bathroom reader there you go those are
great books random that we have more
technology in our cell phones now than
they had in the first oh yeah like the
first Space Shuttle our phone is more
powerful than the computers that ran the
entire operation right exactly yeah so I
know that no matter what this new one is
gonna be great big thanks to Roy W Nash
in our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us this week don't
thanks for watching the category five
dot TV newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category five TV newsroom
I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm Robbie
Ferguson dad I'm Jeff Weston it's been
great having you here with us a game
this week we look forward to seeing you
again one week from today take care bud
