tonight we are talking cryptocurrency
yes
he's excited I am a couple of you just
went oh really cryptocurrency why we're
gonna we're gonna make this fun for you
you just set it before the show we're
gonna we're gonna have a lot of fun with
this we're gonna make it easy for you
yes so we're just gonna get right into
cryptocurrency okay now out the gate I
need to mention we're not giving
financial advice tonight this is just
wrecked our own opinions and everything
that we're learning to do I'm looking
forward to doing some crypto mining for
free and hey we'll see why not we'll see
what happens with that but no financial
advice here tonight it's just strictly
that's not my forte and to be honest
with you I'm new to crypto you're new to
crypto yes
Sascha how much crypto is in your
portfolio a zero all right so we're all
pretty much crypto noobs yes and so what
we're doing here tonight is not the de
facto here's how you do cryptocurrency
no it's nothing like that it is however
what we've learned so far and we want to
share that information with us share
that knowledge with you so that you can
get excited about what we're excited
about as well now before you get into it
though I'm sure there are some people
who have heard all about cryptocurrency
but they don't know what it is so really
quickly what is cryptocurrency basically
to really dumb it down it's yes a
digital currency so monetary value to
this digital coin or digital
they're called hashes so it's it's just
digital digital strings that are stored
on a network of computers right so it's
not stored in any one place like your
bank right it's stored on thousands of
potentially thousands and thousands of
computers it's called a blockchain and
that blockchain contains information
about the currency that exists whether
it be Bitcoin or Manero or aetherium or
whatever that might be
this digital data is stored within the
blockchain and that
shared between all these computers so
that hey if one of them disappears the
blockchain still exists and you don't
lose your currency right and the more
people that are using it minding it
whatever the catch phrase is the more it
grows oh yeah and the harder it gets to
mind
yes you think about and we're gonna get
it let's talk a little bit about because
I don't there are some questions that
viewers may bring up that would drive us
to these very conversations yes and and
I think in particular you know what is
stopping me from getting into
cryptocurrency what is stopping me from
not investing but having a
cryptocurrency portfolio can you think
of any examples well the first one and
what this would be what stopped me yeah
is that it's complicated I mean when
when I first started hearing about you
know this you know exponential rise in
value for Bitcoin I'm like okay what's
cryptocurrency so I'm looking into and
try to research it and I want how in the
world do I make this happen because I'm
hearing about software that's being you
know back-end loaded onto computers to
mind so that you know they can hear
about these crazy rings and it's
ridiculous so it was super super
complicated I tried to do some research
myself and it my initial assessment of
it was this is gobbledygook I have no
clue what I'm doing because I walked
away yeah I really did I mean I was
envious but I walked away because it was
so complicated all right so tonight
we're gonna learn with a piece of
software how to start mining and it will
take about five minutes to set up on a
Linux but super yeah so really really
easy to get started we're gonna learn
all about that in a couple of months
anything else between the two of you
that you can think of that might keep
you from mining cryptocurrency or
becoming involved in cryptocurrency
everything I would like as far as like I
would picture to mine cryptocurrency I
would need this big huge expensive crazy
rig that's running all the time and you
know right you know that sort of thing
you got
own server farm yeah you see these guys
that have like GPUs just lined up yes
used racks yeah yeah I mean one of the
things I mentioned at the beginning is
you hear about people installing it
maliciously in the back of people's
computers and I think illegal usage like
now again we'll get to that but let's
touch on Sasha's comment first right
okay so illegal usage is a completely
unrelated but definitely good a good a
good comment as well when it comes to
the rig Sascha yes here's the thing so
we mentioned that it gets harder and
harder to mine as the cryptocurrency
gains popularity so Bitcoin if you were
around when Bitcoin first started up
people were mining it and getting
Bitcoin and building their Bitcoin
portfolio and it wasn't worth a lot so
then when Bitcoin took off now you know
being worth ten thousand dollars today
and you know sixteen thousand dollars
yesterday and fluctuating you know
between I've seen it usually we're
falling between eight thousand nine
thousand to twelve thousand dollars as
of late per Bitcoin so if you mined in
the early days and you happen to have a
portfolio or a wallet of Bitcoin then
it's worth a lot of money even if
Bitcoin Falls seven percent or whatever
right it's still worth a lot more than
you put into it which was mining so what
has happened is now that Bitcoin has
gained popularity and it's susceptible
to machines that are built specifically
for mining cryptocurrency specifically
for mining Bitcoin of that
so there are hardware devices that cost
thousands of dollars that are working on
Bitcoin and mining cryptocurrency and so
for the little guys like you and me who
have just a basic computer we try to
mine Bitcoin and we don't get any right
because our systems are not as powerful
as the next guys and the next guys
getting all of the cryptocurrency
basically to really make it simple right
so for me I remember we built that that
computer for Dave yes is that big enough
and powerful enough to mine crypto
Bitcoin
no no Bitcoin no because bitcoin is now
at the point where only those
jeans that are in like I'm not talking
about really great gaming rigs I'm
talking these are specific machines that
are built for mining cryptocurrency they
cannot do anything else their chips are
built specifically to figure out the
hashes of Bitcoin yeah so because those
exist and because those have taken over
that network now there is and because
the mining basically the coins have
become more rare because so many of them
have been mined already and there's a
finite number of them available so just
like mining if there's a limited supply
the value goes up right so also the
difficulty to find it goes up
okay so bitcoin is very very hard to
mine now because it's rarer because it's
already been mined and it takes a lot
more hardware power in order to decrypt
to find the hashes so the key thing is
is to find and there are what's called
alt coins which are alternate coins to
Bitcoin so anything that is not Bitcoin
but his cryptocurrency is called an
altcoin
so that is Manero aetherium like coin
turtle now and and hundreds of others
yes so it's just finding the legitimate
ones that are low in value right now
because they are so plentiful in supply
because they're so plentiful in supply
they're worth nothing or next to nothing
but as but they're easy to mine yes so
now Sasha your gaming computer can mine
something like Manero okay so you can be
mining the narrow which is only worth
like 300 dollars per coin and you can be
gaining Minero in your portfolio and it
is on its way up and again not giving
investment advice or anything but we're
talking about just using your existing
computer hardware so then if there's all
these alt coins available are you really
just taking an educated guess out which
ones are going to grow or is it just
that they're all going to grow know some
of them are fake some of them are going
to crash right down to zero because they
you know they they people do invest
people do rather than mining maybe they
don't want a mine and they just want to
buy coin so they'll buy coin hope
that's the one and then that one crashes
they've lost all their money in that
investment so yes then somebody gains
from that so yeah it is a bit of a
Russian Roulette because there are so
many out there and some will crash and
some will burn and some will fail so
that's where okay monaro seems really
trustworthy and like it's going on the
up-and-up mm-hmm but there's this new
one called turtle coin yes is also now
it's worth nothing next to nothing one
Satoshi today which is the very very
smallest decimal point of a Bitcoin
that's what a single turtle is worth
okay can we just name them like shells
or so can one turtle point via shell
sure so how many shells can we get so
and we're gonna get a little bit in the
turtle coin tonight because that's the
first one that we're gonna start mining
with because it's in such plentiful
supply right now whether it will fail
and be worth nothing or whether it will
go up in value it it doesn't really
matter to us because it is basically we
were able to mine it and it's really
really easy to mine right now because it
is in plentiful supply there are a
couple of other things about their
network that is unique like it they
generate coins every every half a minute
okay there are like blocks come out
every half a minute so there's always a
flow of coin going through the network
and because it is in such a massive
supply it is easy to mine okay being
easy to mine also with turtle coin
there's only two decimal places to the
coin just like our dollar versus Bitcoin
which has several decimal places so in
order to get one Bitcoin you actually
have to get thousands and thousands of
individual little pieces yes
now with turtle coin there's once you
have a hundred of these individual
pieces it is one turtle coin right so
there are some advantages there now you
asked about a legality yes yeah and so I
mean there's this perception that
because of the you know we're hearing
about these malicious ways that people
are hacking into systems to have miners
go to the background
installing it in viruses yes so people
assume Oh cryptocurrency it's it
illegal it's not you know but that's not
necessarily the case I mean it's
sometimes yeah it is yeah I mean so
you've got Algeria Bolivia Ecuador
kersek Stan Bangladesh Nepal Cambodia
those that's been deemed illegal so if
you are trading cryptocurrency in those
factories yes illegal but everywhere
else at present it is legal to trade and
some countries it's not legal to buy
with cryptocurrency but trading is legal
or mining is also legal so where the
misconception comes from as you
mentioned it's illicit ly installed
mining software right so if I install a
program on my computer we've heard about
JavaScript on websites so I website and
all of a sudden my computer is mining
cryptocurrency now the newspapers
website that I'm visiting who can no
longer sell subscriptions to the
newspaper has to find a way to make
money they can't put ads on their
website anymore to generate revenue
because people are using ad blockers so
now they have to find a new way to
generate revenue so what do they do they
get a hold of this JavaScript that runs
in the background on your computer while
you are on their website and it's
generating crypto coin for them it's
going into their wallet now what's shady
about that is and what makes that
illegal practice is that they are doing
that without your authorization right
okay so the practice itself the
capability of mining crypto code and
crypto coin that is not the illegal
practice the illegal practice is doing
it on someone else's hardware utilizing
their resources without their express
consent right in our case we want to
mine cryptocurrency ourselves yes
whether we donate that cryptocurrency to
someone like category-five TV or whether
we collect that cryptocurrency for
ourselves
it's up to us we have decided and we
have authorized ourselves to use our
computer hardware to do it right so it's
perfectly legal unless you're in one of
those countries where it's been deemed
illegal make sense this practice itself
is legal right so I mean we've looked at
a couple reasons why but I think right
now we should take a quick break because
I want to get to showing people how to
install a minor oh yes so when we come
back I mentioned about being able to
support category 5 TV through crypto
mining I'm gonna show you a piece of
software that you can install that I've
put together that just makes setting up
your crypto mining I've been using it
for comes so easy easy I'm gonna show
you all about that don't worry we're
gonna show you how to mine for yourself
as well
that's all coming up right after this
[Music]
