what say ye we pay a little visit to our
biggest fans on YouTube the biggest
[Music]
fans because they take the time to
comment thank you for your comments
Timothy Hill says this is the worst tech
demo I've ever seen
I don't ever leave comments but
everything about this video seems like
BS and which video is this I you know
what Jeff I'd rather just move along
okay I was feeling really really good
tonight I was feeling really really good
tonight Jeff Farhad have them had me
would like to share with us guy in the
center needs to chill out what guy in
the center I'm usually in the center
aren't I well tonight you're not so I am
we talked about I am I've been called
hyperactive and I've been called worse
you know I will say we did have one of
our biggest fans who made the comment
that I'm always saying nice is I
purposefully trying to not say nice this
is that you're making an effort I'm
making our biggest fans our biggest fans
fine Jeff I will make an effort to chill
out all right done Pierce says I can see
you peddling snake oil from a covered
wagon sometimes you just want to walk
away what I'm chill I'm cool my baby at
least what I show stuff on a show I have
cool stuff around me that I want to show
you hey check out the Raspberry Pi 3
snake-oil clearly he doesn't understand
that all show when people purchase
through our partner links we get to show
paid for so sure there is a benefit but
really but it really comes down to I
love to share cool things with my
viewers and that's part of what category
5 has always been about is yes um as I
learn things I'm excited about it I know
I need to chill but I get excited I am
so excited right now about
cryptocurrency I know because I'm
learning all about it and I can't wait
to not be chill and totally go
berserk that guy in the middle and show
you all that I've learned and you should
are one of our channels Linux tech show
calm on YouTube hit well over 10,000
subscribers this month thank you so much
for subscribing along with that we've
received your comments of everyone who
is our biggest fan on YouTube and Alan
Wong in particular wanted to reach out
to us as we hit that 10,000 subscribers
and just let us know if useless channel
useless useless channel no information
given and a waste of time to watch watch
it hmm no information okay I thank you
for your subscription because you know
the numbers are great but maybe it's not
for you Johnnie snap caster says feels
like a show from the 90s so
young-looking
we're in the 90s ah yeah we're totally
hip totally hip I feel like I need like
a curly hair afro kind of thing going on
you know just like a 90s well I'm just
probably gonna pull out like the the
sweatpants and like oh absolutely sure
that's that's how we roll
ah time for a couple of more of our
biggest fans on YouTube
horst streamer oh I'm sorry I got that
everywhere says 20 times the synth notes
nice the SycE 20 I didn't mean to
mispronounce I'm sorry 20 times the size
of a Raspberry Pi 3 go home Wow
and I guess that's all the time that we
have Wow
for our biggest fans maybe one more
how about Paul P jure who says so
awesome I can just pop one in my pocket
and bring it over to a friend's out to
play old games
oh wait bald Thanks
thank you for your comments everybody
our biggest fans on YouTube we
appreciate you very very much we
appreciate everybody who subscribes to
us on YouTube we love that you watch the
show and those of you who really do
appreciate what we do we appreciate you
even more thank you for tuning in I feel
like we have a new challenge we need to
get you at number one Google search for
turd
[Applause]
