welcome to category five technology TV
it's episode number 593 it's so great to
have you here tonight we've got a very
special guest will Kosh air Sinskey is
here with us via the wonders of the
internet and Skype and it's gonna be
talking with us now he's from Pine 64
gonna be talking with us about all
that's to come from Pine 64 in the
course of 2019 and believe me there are
some exciting announcements that we're
gonna be lifting the embargo on tonight
so make sure you stick around we're
gonna be learning about some really
great devices from a fantastic company
we're also gonna be taking a look at
their single board computer called the
rock pro 64 we want to see how it
performs for us out of the box with the
vanilla are being install and lots of
great stuff to come for you tonight so
stick around technology TV it's episode
number 593 nice to have you all here
we've got a fantastic show planned for
you you notice I've got a Rock Pro 64
all set up well that's because we got
some announcements from Pyne 64 for you
tonight we're gonna be testing that
board and seeing just kind of how well
it performs as a single board computer
and you're gonna find out why we care
about that so much
I Carroll on just a couple of minutes
time we've got oh gosh Atherton ski is
joining us tonight from behind 64 and
very excited to have him on board and
here with us via Skype video to speak
about the very things that they're
releasing from Pine 64 at FOSDEM this
week yes so if you are interested I know
you are you're interested in open source
yeah check you're interested in single
board computers yep oh yes interested in
SOC system-on-chip yeah yeah check and
you're interested in hardware that is
really really good but really really
affordable check check and mate and so
this is gonna be a great show for you
what's new with you - good to see you
I bought some Bluetooth headphones you
bought some Bluetooth headphones are the
earbuds or headphones
earmuffs okay yeah we're the gym so
that's new for me oh yeah from blitz
wolf and they're they're nice to have a
they're very nice yeah they showed up
yesterday I finally got him and give him
a toss around I love I love Bluetooth
it's grown on me yeah I think originally
like the whole wireless headphones and
you know Apple has pulled the headphone
jack from their ass I don't like that
I'll be honest with you because I do
like you sure I listen to things at
night and it's nice to have the
headphones that plug in right yeah I
have a pillow speaker so what a pillow
speaker so when you lay your head on the
pillow you actually hear whatever's
playing on your phone but nobody else
does but nobody else does so you have to
be a side sleeper for that then yeah
well but I also have the the head wrap
do you wear that and I had been wearing
it but but I stopped wearing it and
switched to pillow speaker so I have
mine in like joyful anticipation for
some time being able to take a nap on my
lunch break which has not happened ever
never ever happen but I have it I care
you know would you take a big heavy
backpack we have my I have the wrap I
bought those two oh gosh so just cuz one
day I feel like I'm gonna have time to
take a nap I'm so excited for that
moment I have to carry them with you
every single day like enjoyful inches
don't wear them while you're driving
speaker yeah so so that said like the
headphone jack is really important to me
in my phone because I I don't want
Bluetooth because bluetooth lasts you
know several hours but you've got
problems with heat if it's in a pillow
or something like that so I know I'm
kind of silly that way no but those are
all good things to think about
I like podcasts podcasts are good helps
me sleep it gets my mind off things
there's the new one from it's called
inventions okay I'm really yeah I'm just
getting into it and kind of enjoying it
the guys are really good it's it's from
the same guys that bring you stuff this
stuff you should know
okay so Josh and Chuck like I listen to
them a lot but they were talking about
inventions just the other day so I'm
like okay well I'll give it a try
because you know Josh and Chuck bring
out an episode every couple days so this
gives me something in between and
they're talking about chopsticks
okay well that's topical I eat a lot of
ramen not really an invention though
it's been around for a while it's been
around it's like it's a show about
inventions and they're like well we
can't really track it down to when it
was invented but it's always existed so
it's not just like do invention it was
invented at some point but you can't
really tell you when exactly exactly oh
that's good so what's new with you
what's new with me other than like house
can I ask how's the Odroid gold okay it
is going amazingly yeah and it is the
showpiece at my house right now so
anytime anybody comes over there's like
look at this look what I can do the fact
of the matter is I mean it's so perfect
and portable that you can really just
you I mean somebody comes over you can't
really just shove it in their hands and
be like okay play this and and all of a
sudden they're amazed right like it's a
bullet and one of our viewers was on
Linux tech show comm and said you know I
really want to be able to do video game
emulation retro gaming emulation but it
never works for me right it never works
for me so grab a no droid go this is
like a gameboy form factor a little bit
thinner yeah I mean I'd say about 1/3
the thickness if don't need some kicking
around the studio somewhere I don't have
it here because I know why the kids love
it
sure enough my youngest absolutely loves
playing Nintendo Entertainment System on
the Odroid go so consider this is a
retro gaming system that allows you to
emulate on an SD card it's all like
built in the emulators are fantastic the
audios great the video is great
the gameplay is like the form factor is
that of a gameboy
exactly yeah it's intuitive and it was
funny with the volume because I didn't
know exactly how it works and then done
yeah yeah down yeah exactly and but you
had said that you can just like resume
where you left off yes and that's one of
the mind-blowing features of the Odroid
go it's incredible for somebody like me
who like has a moment to start something
but I don't want to lose it forever well
Jeff have you ever played like Sega
Genesis yes and you get into a game
let's say Sonic the Hedgehog and he gets
so so far yep and then oh it's time for
dinner I gotta shut it off and you've
got to start back at level 1 every time
I thought you could say well you
couldn't you could you could you could
learn the codes there was like a up up
down down left right left right right
right right but you could never save
your position in the game right the
Odroid go as you've probably found you
can it does yeah if you're in the middle
of a game it just memorizes where you
are if you turn it off and then you turn
it back on you fire up that game boom
you're back where you left off you're
playing Legend of Zelda Ocarina of Time
on it you're in the middle of a swing
turn it off boom turn it back on swing
continues yes absolutely
yeah it's Prince of Persia that's
awesome right in the middle yeah that's
a very cool feature I know so I'm
expecting that the sales of Oh Drago's
we're gonna go through the roof don't
you yeah where's our stickers they're in
the mail yeah how's that coming cold out
so what about you you know you always
ask us what's going on in Texas going on
there Tech feminie well I'm really
excited about what's going on tonight
because leading up to this week's
episode I've been speaking with the
folks at pine 64m and speak em and
working with them if you follow my blog
at bald nerd comm if you forget that the
domain name just look at my face on my
blog I posted an entry this this morning
yeah which I'm not gonna tell you about
right now because I want you to tune in
to the show and find out what's to come
but we've been talking about all these
amazing things that pine 64 is doing
pine 64 being like a single board
computer manufacturer that I'm really
excited about the brand because they not
only make a great board we found that
with the a 64 plus the a 64 LTS the rock
64 the rock pro 64 they're really
excelling the best for the Google score
oh yeah oh yeah and and they're really
excelling at the single board computer
but they also understand community and I
really absolutely adore that about them
and it's not it's not the community
grabbing hold of the board it's the
manufacturer grabbing hold of the
community and saying we love you we want
to work with you to make this thing
really awesome
yeah that's a completely different kind
of paradigm as far as business goes and
as a Linux lover I absolutely adore that
so I'm very excited about Pine 64 right
now yes and tonight we're looking at
some things that are coming up from them
and I'm really excited to unveil this
for you I'm not gonna do it but will
Kosh is here via the internet we've got
Skype video with with Lukasz from Pine
64 we're gonna be talking with him in
just a couple minutes time so you ask
you know what's exciting for me in tech
really that's kind of it yeah other than
that I mean kingston technology is one
of our partners we love them and we work
with them I'm really excited about some
of the encryption devices that they're
bringing okay we're gonna be looking at
them yeah one of those the USB Kingston
you know yeah I just want to know that
my data is safe sano well they've got
the data traveler 2000 and the data
traveler 2000 is a USB flash drive that
has a built-in keypad Oh uh-huh
so with that with the keypad you can
decrypt your files and then plug it into
your computer but because it's built
into the device you can also plug it
into your TV you can plug it into any
device that reads USB and it's not it's
completely 100 percent platform agnostic
it doesn't care if your
Windows or Linux or Mac or Chrome
whatever you're on it won't work okay I
get into the side of your TV because you
punched in your password right it will
decrypt the videos that are on that or
the JPEGs that are on that but someone
walks away with it steals it from you
they can't open the files that's like
that's the whole idea between the data
travel a thousand and so I'm really
really keen on that right now - yeah
there's a lot of really cool stuff
happening in 2019 category five is gonna
be at the forefront we're gonna be
showing you everything as it happens and
we've got some great giveaways coming up
over the pass over the next couple of
months as well as the the season
progresses so very very excited about
all that's to come it's gonna be good
was gonna be good it's gonna be amazing
and it's so nice to have you along
thanks for being a patron as well if you
are a patron well you already know some
of the behind-the-scenes stuff that's
going on and it is incredibly exciting I
just got to say if you're a patron you
already know and it's amazing and you've
got the inside scoop the inside skinny
and all it takes is a buck a month to be
a part of our patreon page category five
on patreon is found at patreon.com slash
category five so please do consider
supporting us if you haven't already
we've got to take a really quick break
when we come back we're gonna be talking
with Lukasz Eric Hinske and he is from
Pine sixty-four we're gonna be talking
to him about what is coming up in 2019
from Pine sixty-four stick around
[Music]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV on the
other side of the studio is Robbie we
kicked him over there because he's got
some exciting news from Pyne 64 thanks
Jeff today I am joined by Lukasz Eric
Hinske and he is here from pine 64 we're
getting really excited about all that's
to come over the next well over the
course of 2019 and here to tell us all
about it
Akash it's great to have you here thanks
for joining us thanks for having me can
you tell us a little bit just briefly
what makes pine sixty-four I mean I know
the answer to this I know why our
community is so excited about pine 64
but from your perspective within the
company what is different about your
company you know I think that especially
since we introduced the pine book we
kind of have grown past in a sense past
the SBC single board computer business
I mean single board computers are still
our bread and butter it's what we do but
ta.lim
who is the founder of pine 64 clearly
has a much broader vision for what pine
64 is supposed to be in time you know so
the pine book is clearly a step
in a direction of opening up a a broader
spectrum of devices based on the SOC s
that are used in our single board
computer and the pine book was a first
step this year we're looking at
introducing the pine tab and
subsequently the pine phone we have been
you know here at fosston we're
announcing deaf kits for the pine phone
it's a big step towards you know yet
another thing in our line off of devices
that was wonderful
can I touch on the pine phone just
really quickly because yeah I know we've
we've mentioned it here on the show
before and and the specifications are
you know not up there with the latest
and greatest Android phone I think it's
important for us to know who it's for
and why it's so exciting so for me what
is exciting about the pine phone
immediately is openness think about a
phone where you have absolute control
over the operating system you're not
locked into a service provider you're
not locked into an OS that is an
astonishing venture absolutely correctly
so the whole point of the pine phone is
to have mainline Linux running in this
device we are working hard with you know
a number of projects that would be you
know you be poor it's post market
awareness KDE guys plenty others and the
idea is to create something that is not
supposed to rival your you know daily
driver and not your iPhone not your you
know pixel or what have you it's
supposed to be a privacy oriented phone
running main line Linux for those people
who you know cherish and value privacy
and for those who may need it in their
business you know in their organizations
um you know we're introducing it well
the pine phone is gonna have features
such as you know physical switches for
the camera for the Wow for the LTE
module for four speakers so these are
now actual toggle switches to enable and
disable by
Hardware not software that's absolutely
correct yes so completely physical
switches which will be you know which
are already there in the dev kits which
we're demoing here at FOSDEM but they
will find themselves into the actual
product I think that's really important
from a privacy standpoint for those of
us who are concerned about that
and I think that's becoming more and
more of a concern these days especially
in 2019 because you know realize folks
that with a hardware toggle switch to
turn off your webcam a hacker cannot
reenable it with a software switch a
hacker can re-enable your webcam you
don't even know that it's on Hardware
its off it's completely disabled from
the OS and inaccessible so that's
exciting so as Vikash as as the pine
phone is going to be to the latest and
greatest Android phone that it's kind of
where the pine book has landed and that
it's not meant to be the most powerful
laptop it's meant to be an entry level
for something that's new and exciting
and a completely different kind of grade
of I don't it's never been done before
from from what I know yeah I mean you're
absolutely correct Robby the you know
the whole point of the pine book was
when I first wrote a post about it you
know fine book what to expect you know I
ended the whole post on the on the forum
with writing you know if you expect this
to replace your work or school laptop
you don't that's that's not the point
I'm not the intention at all mmm-hmm not
at all it was meant for you know for
tinker's for learning Linux for people
who just wanted to get into armed
devices and who had you know a package
of sorts rather than having you know a
separate screen and the board and all
that yeah so it never was meant to be
seen as a you know as a full-fledged
laptop innocence you know it was meant
for tinker's what we initially
envisioned was because you know there's
so much space in the chassis and there's
an exposed USB header inside we thought
you know people would be
hacking you know mobile connectivity
into it you know who may do some GPO
stuff on the go with it which is
possible you know via the SD card slot
and you know these sort of things these
were our you know our assumptions but
people went out and did a lot of other
cool things with the pint book you know
and it clearly there is clearly a market
among the tinkers for this sort of
device very cool and and you have shown
fine 64 has shown that a single board
computing is now entering the next level
I mean the rock pro 64 is an astounding
board it you could use it as your
set-top box and it's a fantastic system
so now I just want to first of all
before we talk about what's to come from
Pine 64 Lukasz I just want to thank you
for choosing to be on category 5
technology TV this week and for those of
you watching we should understand that
the information that you're about to
learn is under embargo and we're about
to lift that embargo which means this is
brand-new information that we cache is
about to share so Lukasz thank you for
choosing our community to release this
information could you share with us what
is next for the pine book so this year
we're introducing the pine book pro in a
sense it is a part of a mmm of the brach
pro 64 lineage in a sense it features
the same SOC same memory and we expect
it to be completely compatible with a
single board computer that is that we
have rolled out last year basically what
we're doing is we're taking the Rock Pro
64 as a as a starting point and the the
board is now going to be in the pine
Book Pro it's a custom PCB which is
being developed for the laptop but we
are kind of creating a continuity in a
sense that those operating systems which
have already come to the pine to the
rock pro 64
we'll make an appearance definitely down
the line on the pine book Pro it is much
more powerful than the pine book as much
more memory has four gigs of ram and we
expect that you know this could really
be a daily driver and it comes you know
with features that you know there's so
many people out there who these days you
know take a a Chromebook and they
transform it into a a Linux laptop sure
and you know that's that's that's
fantastic
and in a sense we looked at that market
and we thought you know what about a you
know a a proper laptop a real laptop
replacement based on you know arm 64
architecture that you know that is built
from the ground up with three and open
source software in mind and when you
know and having features which you
rarely find on high-end or mid-range
Chromebooks such as you know a lot of
tasks internal storage 1080p IPS panels
you know these sort of things as well as
high quality of materials for the build
I mean we're using an aluminum alloy for
the pine Book Pro you know Wow okay this
is I mean this is groundbreaking that
you're changing the entire world of
single board computing SOC with the
release of the pine Book Pro so I think
okay there's lots of laptops that are
available there are a lot of Chromebooks
that I could convert to Linux and so the
immediate thought that comes to mind is
price point we all know of course pine
64 is all about open platforms and so we
can expect the same from this device so
without getting too much into that just
real quick price 199 dollars 100 minute
that's what we're aiming for we're
looking into you know we also heard our
community people are you know talking
about that shipping cost a lot and the
current arrangement which we have we're
looking into that as well we hope that
you know whatever we do for the pine
Book Pro is going to translate also down
to the
regular pine book so wonderful you know
there's more info on that
I'm not saying we've got it all figured
out sure yeah you know we're thinking
about it with that in mind what kind of
timeline are we looking at for the pine
Book Pro you know second half of the
year literally the first prototype is
here we've got three prototypes you know
they will go to our you know three
prototypes going to three heat projects
that we're working with we're left with
no prototypes at this such as developers
of the operating systems to be able to
build for the for the pine book pro
that's correct yes so we want to have
you know at least two or three you know
operating systems in place for when it
rolls out and you know we also gonna
have a scheme where developers will get
their you you know other develops other
developers will get their units a bit
earlier ahead of you know users so that
they can port their OSF right now
because because it's because the pine
Book Pro is is generally as you
mentioned a Rock Pro 64 at its heart it
does that mean that the transition
period for those operating systems is it
going to be a lot easier for them to
develop operating systems for these pine
book pros just because it's already
available for The Rock Pro 64 so here's
the thing I'm not the most technical guy
sure there and I don't want to pretend
you know like I like I know the the
answer with all certain C but I can tell
you is that from talking to you know the
key projects that we work with it it
does appear that it's a question of
changing out the device tree and you
know supporting the the features which
you would expect in a laptop so you know
the LCD and I know you know the battery
and stuff like that but it in principle
it appears that you know the porting
period should be much shorter than in
the case of a completely new SOC you
know something that nobody has ever
worked on
so yeah very good very good okay so
beyond the pine Book Pro there are some
other exciting things coming out of Pine
64 during 2019 now one of the things
that we've been looking at here on
category 5 technology TV is the smart
home smart surveillance as a good
example but one of the concerns that we
have with the smart home is you know
where is our data how is the cloud
interacting with our information and
how's it being stored from a privacy
perspective essentially and so having
control over our cloud data having
control over our surveillance and things
like that it's all very important to to
us this year as we think about our data
privacy so maybe you can share a little
bit about I mean we know again
Pyne 64 I can't stress enough is all
about we found openness and in creating
platforms that are hackable and that you
can work with so I'm really excited
about this new product called cube can
you tell us a little bit about that so
cube is to our knowledge one of the
first if not the first completely open
source IP cam we have already approached
developers who you know who who deal
with this area of linux and spoken to
them and listen to what it is that they
would you know like to see in such a
camera and we got a lot of feedback and
we we actually had a prototype at FOSDEM
last year so this is you know long in
the making this is this isn't new stuff
I mean we we talked to developers for a
year to see what it is that they'd like
to see in one of those cameras and I
think we we nailed it in a sense I think
that you know a we're using an SOC which
is very low powered but it is pretty
much completely mainlined
so already so even you know so there
isn't much on our end that we need to do
some see does incredible work on these
all winter processors and does this fall
into hey it's gonna be easier to port
our
software - it will be easier for
developers to port their software to it
fantastic yeah so it will be the you
know the Linux is in very good shape on
it I understand that there certain
questions of implementing the actual
sensor at this time you know we don't
have an ETA for when the cube is going
to be available but it will be available
this year and we're looking at you know
having its function in both indoors and
outdoors wonderful that brings me to one
of the things that's really exciting for
me about the hack ability of the cube
camera is the GPIO and could you share
with us the you know this camera so that
think about this inside the camera
there's a full GPIO can you tell us what
that can be used for Lukasz plenty of
things but one of the things is that we
are thinking about a motorized case for
for the cube which would allow users to
you know to interact with the camera and
basically you know have have the camera
move in four axes and you know you could
have all sorts of robotic applications I
know that people also have you know
thought about people who fly drones and
stuff like that are really excited about
this I find that like what a brilliant
idea so rather than having to buy a
different camera to have pan and tilt
features I have the same camera and I
just add the GPIO component for pant and
pan and tilt and then the software's
hackable so if I want to add digital
zoom which brings me also so
specifications wise do you know the
resolution of the camera at this point
from the top of my head I believe it's 8
megapixels okay what so please don't
quote me on this because this is I'm
doing this from memory but I am pretty
sure that it is 8 megapixel Sony sensor
fantastic I'm looking to see if I have
the specifications I do not will it
shoot 1080p video are you sure that it
will shoot
you video at 8 megapixels yeah we'd be
able to take some really high quality
stills and do 1080p video which would be
fantastic so again not quoting on that I
do see it's the IMX one seven nine so
those of you who would like to look it
up and all of the specifications are
going to be listed in the the
description below so if you're
interested in the Pine Book Pro the cube
I've got those specifications listed
there for you so check those out beyond
that I mean you guys are working on
things like a retro gaming case anything
else exciting from Pine 64 I mean this
is huge you guys are making some amazing
waves in in what SOC is going to mean I
think knowing that we're going to be
able to get a pine Book Pro which is
going to be on par with like a good
medium or a high-end Chromebook at that
price point is just it that's
mind-boggling I'm happy to hear that
you're excited yeah we've got a few
things in store you know we're also
making the pine tab yeah which is a
tablet which is going to have a
magnetically attached Abul keyboard
that's going to double up as a as a
cover that's based on the a 64 okay
we're updating the much-beloved rock 64
and we're taking another stab at the
pine h 64 which we introduced last year
it's didn't really you know we listened
to the community and when the community
comes back to us and says you know this
really isn't up to scratch you know that
this isn't what we hoped and expected
you know we go back and we really do you
know take it on board so you know we're
taking another stab at you know the H
six SOC from all winner this year and in
a smaller form factor with integrated
Wi-Fi and Bluetooth you know for all of
those who who really hope to see a pint
64 board with you know in a module
already soldered onto the board
wonderful well I mean to you to the
keep up the great work we're really
excited to take you know get to we've
had so much fun playing with pine
sixty-four boards over the past several
months they've just been you know one of
those product lines that honestly I can
say has been impressing us and and you
are just showing us today that that is
going to continue in 2019 and so keep up
the great work
Thank You rebby okay thank you so much
for joining us and thank you again for
choosing category-five TV to unveil this
information take care man thank everyone
I love it I am so excited that was an
excellent excellent interview I
definitely want to put that on my
Christmas list yes okay all right so the
one thing we learnt amongst the many
things that we learned is that the pine
book pro is built off the rock pro 64
right and if you're watching going
what's the pro 64 I've never used them
before how does it perform is this thing
gonna blow my mind yes and we are going
to be taking a quick break and when we
come back we're gonna take a look at one
of those and see just how well it
performs so you'll get an incensed of
what its gonna be like as a laptop
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts welcome back this is
category 5 technology TV before the
break Jeff was mentioning to you that
we're going to be looking at a rock pro
64 so we understand now the pine 64 has
taken the rock pro 64 SOC and built it
into a new single board kind of circuit
I don't know like a for a laptop
basically they've taken that thing
flattened it out made a little bit
bigger and put it into a laptop form
factor and it's yeah like you're here it
is and so you know I and I don't it's on
and I don't want to get shocked but so
they've basically made it into a laptop
form because as well Kosh was mentioning
it's it's not the same board it's just
the same components right built into a
laptop board and now it's like a an
aluminium magnesium alloy chassis which
as your full-size key like a nice
keyboard with the keys in the correct
positioning now so you know if you if
you ever have encountered a laptop or
even a pine book where the keys are kind
of like hey why is why is the slash key
in such a weird spot well yeah it looks
to me from the from the shots that they
sent that hey this thing is they've
fixed the keyboard up and it looks
really really good so I'm really excited
about it but really what it boils down
to is how is it gonna perform and and
when Lukasz said hey this thing is based
on the rock pro 64 I said well I got one
of those
yeah so how is this going to perform so
you think about a 200 dollar laptop and
you think okay well this thing is gonna
be sluggish for surfing the web it's
gonna be really really slow like that's
that price point when I go to buy a
laptop I don't look at anything less
than 700 bucks right because I know it's
going to be slow lesson I'm just saying
that my mentality is that that's where
it's gonna fall right right now the keep
in mind the pine Book Pro is not gonna
fall into that at all this is this is
earth changing right now because what
pint 64 is doing is taking that SOC
the the system-on-chip and making it
into a laptop that is really quite
powerful like I'm very very excited
about this so let's look at the Rock Pro
64 which the pine Book Pro is based on
just to get a sense of how it's going to
perform so what I've done now we
understand the pine Book Pro is a Rock
Pro 64 with a 64 gig emmc
um if you are a part of the pine 64
community they're gonna actually upgrade
that to 128 gigs for you know beautiful
sound Wow thank you become a part of the
community folks so with that in mind I
am using emmc tonight on the rock Pro 64
but I've only got a 16 gig emmc card so
I actually have less capacity but I've
installed I've installed arm bian which
is like a debian it's based on Ubuntu
and it's basically just a Linux distro
that I can download and install on a
rock pro 64 similarily with a with a
pine Book Pro you can download Linux you
can install it and and you're up and
running so let's just get right over to
it ladies and gentlemen this is the rock
pro 64 now let's let's take a quick look
how how does it respond now I've down
scaled the screen to 720p because I had
trouble out of full 1080p I had trouble
seeing the the text it was so tiny I
needed it like a 55 inch TV or something
to be able to see that but for your sake
at home I wanted to I wanted to show you
what it was gonna look like at 720p so
you see what I did is I went in here and
changed the resolution but resolution
wise I mean its guts it can scale right
up of course it's got 4k capabilities as
well so if I had a 4k device I'd be able
to go up to that so all I've done with
arm bein is I've just installed a couple
of things like LibreOffice because I
wanted to know you know I'm going to be
using it as a as a desktop computer as a
laptop computer how's it going to
perform when I bring up writer
boom that's it's what you expect from
from a laptop computer like that's kind
of the the performance that you would
expect close it and it's gone I mean
what else can you possibly check I mean
you've got GIMP do you have GIMP on
there I did put GIMP on here as another
quick test so here's the GNU image
manipulation program version 2.8 and
it's up on the screen ready to go I
don't really have any images to play
with I mean I guess I could I could open
up my desktop wallpaper in the GIMP
let's see so open and it's just in my
downloads there we go there we are
grabbed it from pixels comm came up just
fine now what's the resolution of that
that's four thousand thirteen by 2675 so
yeah remember that I am doing this right
now
on a single board computer okay this is
an SBC like everything's built into this
and and this is what you're going to
experience from the pine Book Pro this
is the kind of performance bringing up a
four thousand by whatever image in the
GIMP yeah just like that is indeed
faster than my work computer you know
what even just as it is so being
realistic like is it the fastest
computer that I have no I've got a 24
core computer with 96 gigs of ram on my
desk right okay yeah so is it the
fastest thing no but as far as a
portable laptop so something that I can
take with me to the coffee shop do some
writing on do some surfing on get on to
discord say hi to my friends and do my
usual day-to-day stuff yeah I'm probably
not gonna do video production on
guaranteed I'm not I'm saying that
tongue-in-cheek I'm not gonna do video
production on it but for my daily driver
for the laptop that I'm gonna carry
around with me at 200 bucks right this
thing is blowing my mind okay you know
what's going through my head I'm
picturing getting you know my wife
surprising me wink-wink nudge-nudge with
this for Christmas ah but then as with
only January Jeff but then you know she
buys it early gets it to you and says
hey Robbie I need you to get this all
set up and as well with a window where
you can play all of his roms there you
go yeah I use it as an emulator I'm
picturing all the little single board
computers in there giggle scores just
giggling away and then this guy here
with his evil laugh as a laptop that's
amazing yeah that's real time folks I
mean it's not it's not at all a
comprehensive review of the system but I
mean hey it operates really fast I mean
folks in the chat you see in discord
saying like this is faster this looks
better than my my desktop computer my
work computer and it just I mean it
operates just fine I got a I'd have to
grab like a key I've got a keyboard over
here if I wanted to bring up like
YouTube or something yeah let me let me
just do that all right so I've got a
wireless keyboard that's connected into
our Rock pro 64 here so let's see if
it's working here youtube.com yeah and
you see the responsiveness there
sometimes with a SBC a single board
computer hit enter that might help
sometimes with a single board computer
as I'm typing it doesn't keep up with
the speed that I type and so I can feel
that latency I didn't feel it there so
alright so here we are let's go
youtube.com slash category 5 dot
category 5 TV no I think it's cat 5 TV
on YouTube isn't it do believe no no
that's Facebook I don't know it's it's
hard to remember every every there we go
we're live there's Sasha there's us from
last week and I just write oh yeah quick
yeah so how's it gonna operate here
er that could be feed that could be our
internet but you know what else that
could be I have not installed there are
3d acceleration drivers
I haven't installed anything for that
kind of stuff right so that's probably a
key component that I'm gonna need to do
and certainly if you want to do any
gaming on it you're gonna get in I'm I'm
unarmed bein so so when you install the
distro on this board or on your pine
Book Pro you're gonna install like
drivers and things like that
this is like your space vanilla install
I haven't done anything but as far as
performance for office connectivity goes
perfect yeah as far as being able to use
my Google Docs Google Drive all that
stuff is going to be perfect out of the
box and if I want to do anything extra
then I'm definitely going to be able to
do that as soon as I install that are
bein there you go
Lukasz is even saying you need to
install the army and patch to run
YouTube with hardware acceleration
you'll see that right over there so
that's part you know this is this is one
of the things some people will I've
received some messages where people have
said there there isn't support for this
or there isn't support for that one of
the things that's really cool about the
ROK pro 64 the pine Book Pro is that
it's community supported so folks who
are able to do development are doing it
in an open-source manner so we're seeing
more and more patches little features
and and new distros and things like that
so as blue Kosh is saying there you can
see in discord that you've got to
install those hardware acceleration
drivers you're going to encounter that
well this stuff is now available this
stuff is ready for you and you can
install it but I haven't because this is
a vanilla so it's amazing gives us a
great impression anyways of you know the
out of out of the box experience and
that's gonna be really really good I'm
so excited about this thing all I know
yeah Sasha we've got a head over to the
newsroom so if you're ready for us I
certainly a.m.
here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom the
Raspberry Pi foundation has updated its
compute module with better thermals and
updated application processor and more
flash memory Facebook has revealed plans
to integrate whatsapp Instagram and
messenger Apple says it's banning
Facebook's research app that collects
users personal information and IBM hopes
1 million faces will help fight bias and
facial recognition these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
look at the slave Linux bias Geoff
Weston Gemma you're building a brand-new
beautiful website
are you your terrible actor what this
where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused
doesn't mean you have to be visit cap
five dot TV slash dream host to sign up
for unlimited web hosting for your
website with unlimited email accounts
MySQL databases the latest version of
PHP WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash DreamHost I'm
Sachi Rickman and here are the top
stories were following this week the
flash memory the Compu module three plus
a system on module a solution Som board
is part of a hardware family that's been
around since 2014 with the launch of the
CM one that module had a single core
core ARM processor clocked to 700
megahertz 512 megabytes of RAM and a 4
gigabyte e/m e MMC three years later the
compute module 3 was released with a 1.2
gigahertz processor of the PI 3 and what
and 1 gigabyte of RAM here we are two
years later and the compute module 3
plus is carrying on the tradition adding
the processor from the PI 3 B+ into the
mix it's the size of a DDR two Sodom
Sodom and will happily plug into a DDR
two Sodom connector but don't go
slotting it into your PC because the
pins don't do the same thing at all this
is after all a complete computer the
module is aimed at those wishing to
embed their Raspberry Pi into their
devices with a form factor more suitable
for the task all data and power is dealt
with via the ddr2 soddom like connector
making it for a very compact device the
PI Foundation points to the likes of
ICI is an example where the electronics
giant has used the diminutive board as
the heart of some monstrous digital
signage
it also has also made an appearance in
media players in industrial control
systems the compute module 3 plus is a
drop-in replacement for the previous
versions from a form factor in
electrical perspective however power
supply limitations will keep the CPU at
1.2 gigahertz instead of the 1.4
gigahertz of the full size pi pi 3 v
plus the storage is perhaps the biggest
change there are now 8 16 and 32
gigabyte very good gigabyte 30 at 35 and
40 dollars respectively there is also a
flash version for those that need it the
foundation plans to keep compute module
3 plus available until at least January
2026 and inwards that will bring joy to
Pi fans of the world over stated that
this is the last in a line of 40
nanometer based Raspberry Pi products
indicating a clearing of the decks
before the next generation makes an
appearance wonderful so we're going to
see you know big upgrades as far as
those kinds of SOC s go now I have to
say sodium the sodium chips yes because
somehow Sodom sounds like raw sodium I
know so many technical terms on category
5 TV but basically think of a ram module
and it's a full computer within the the
the connector of a sodium so you're able
to plug it into like multi you know you
got a board that has multiple connectors
and can plug those in and boom you've
got computers and now with the Raspberry
Pi 3 B+ right built on board which is
pretty sweet so it's very exciting
mm-hmm
I love single board computers I love
like I'm starting to get into making
creating more and more like I'm working
on things with names Linux where you
know I'm soldering connectors to
different things and so these kinds of
chips are pretty cool or perfect what I
think is most exciting though for the
Raspberry Pi fans is that we're finally
maybe gonna see an end of line to the
older like the 40 nanometers and moving
on to faster boards maybe if we can get
away from that then we can get past the
one gigabyte of RAM limitation of the
SOC which for me is a real limitation of
the Raspberry Pi and it doesn't matter
which model you have being limited and
capped off at 1 gigabyte of RAM is just
like that's killer it's like really it
you really can't do a lot with one gig
of ram anymore unless you're doing like
certainly I mean there are obviously use
cases where a Raspberry Pi is fantastic
you know you're you're making little
maker trinkets or whatever uses maker
tickets I don't know the stuff that I'm
doing though like the programming that
I'm doing really benefits from like 2
gigabytes or higher of RAM so anything
at the one gigabyte cap of a Raspberry
Pi seems to be you know like a
performance suffers and you really start
to you know I have to start working with
Z Ram in the kernel and compressing the
ram compressing the temp folder and
things like that into Ram and so it
really becomes tough so hopefully we're
gonna see in the next couple of years
because it seems to be every two years
or so that's right we're gonna see
something kind of shift there with
Raspberry Pi
it's good times Facebook has revealed
plans to integrate whatsapp Instagram
and messenger while all three will
remain standalone apps at a much deeper
level they will be linked so messages
can travel between the different
services the plan was first reported in
the New York Times and is believed to be
a personal project of Facebook's founder
Mark Zuckerberg once complete the merger
would mean that a Facebook user could
communicate directly with someone who
only has whatsapp account this is
currently impossible as the applications
have no
common core the work to merge the three
elements has already begun and is
expected to be completed by the end of
2019 or earlier next year Facebook
probably didn't want to talk about this
in the middle of a privacy scandal but
its hand was forced by insiders taking
to the New York Times until now whatsapp
Instagram and messenger have been run as
separate and competing products
integrating the messaging parts might
simplify Facebook's work it wouldn't
need to develop competing versions of
new features such as stories which all
three apps have added with inconsistent
results cross-platform messaging may
also lead the way for businesses on one
platform to message potential customers
on another and it may make it easier for
Facebook to share data across the three
platforms to help its targeted
advertising efforts but bigger still it
makes Facebook's suite of apps a much
tighter inter woven collection of
services that could make the key parts
of Facebook's Empire more difficult to
break up and spin off if governments and
regulators decide that it is necessary
linking the three systems marks a
significant change as Facebook at
Facebook
now as before now it has let Instagram
and whatsapp operate as largely
independent companies the decision comes
as Facebook faces repeated
investigations and criticisms over the
way it is handled and safeguarded user
data comprehensive linking user data at
a fundamental level may prompt
regulators to take another look at its
data handling practices so I don't have
facebook you don't anymore yet I do not
anymore but many of my family members
still do and I to be honest before I
read the story didn't know that whatsapp
was even like a relative of their family
yeah now I don't have whatsapp right now
but it has like I have in the past
thought oh yeah maybe I'll get whatsapp
because it's easy when my family's on
vacation oh yes message cuz it's just
like so what if it could communicate
with Facebook right be convenient yeah
yeah I don't I don't hate that I think
that coming from no so I know that you
want to talk on the privacy end and the
data privacy and data collection and all
that kind of stuff but for me this
coming from a company who cut off XMPP
from their offerings so this is a
protocol that's open that is able to
communicate with pidgin and other third
party applications and being able to
connect maybe it would have made
messenger something that could have been
used with if this then that a lot easier
you know without having to hack around
it so so keeping in mind so this is a
company that wants to keep everything
that they do internal they don't want to
open it up to allow other platforms to
you to use it discord it took me an
afternoon to write a bridge to be able
to communicate directly with IRC right
it's wonderful oh yeah the API is there
and it's open and as its able to yeah
there's such a freedom and such a
flexibility there so Facebook and
wanting to hey let's make it so that it
the internal behind-the-scenes
communicates together I think it's a
good idea from a user perspective but is
it the right approach see and I I mean
as soon as Sasha started reading this
story I'm going mmm no don't like it
because but why so right now one of the
appeals to people using whatsapp is the
encryption and then the fact that you're
long verse Asians are protected your so
keep in mind could this mean that
Facebook is gonna have end-to-end
encryption and messenger and everything
else well possibly but at the same time
I don't think that's the key issue
because right now whatsapp is it's it's
- your phone it is the encrypted
conversation and I know for different
groups that I look that I organize that
I'm part of like organizations some of
the conversations we have this makes it
sound like we're doing something bad but
we want the encryption in encrypted
conversations because you know we might
have a conversation here about this
topic that we don't want getting out for
privacy reasons there are other members
yeah and so with that we've
adopted to whatsapp because of the
encryption to it and I'm just seeing a
whole plethora of issues of integrating
this into Facebook it's like oh no you
can message your facebook on on what
time and suddenly you lose that privacy
aspect sure because when it comes to
Facebook I find that quite frankly the
world is not very conscious of theirs
Facebook not own whatsapp right now they
own it but it's a standalone okay it's a
separate applications for business right
they don't talk and so now Facebook is
looking to make everything talk and
they're all gonna cross-platform and I
mean we know all the issues that people
have had with Facebook and we know all
the issues that people have with
computers and malware and ransomware and
spyware and everybody loves Facebook on
their computer so suddenly you're
cooking connecting with a whatsapp
conversation group and it's all on your
facebook it's like come on I I feel like
in Facebook's defense well here we go
that there's no way with what has been
coming out in the media about them
lately that encryption is not top of
mind for them sure I feel like it has
got to be the start of every
conversation that they have right so I
think that they would not forego the
privacy aspect of whatsapp to integrate
it with messenger I think well instead
they use the strengths of whatsapp and
it's a great those into messenger like I
think that that's what they would do
well possibly but what I'm trying to get
it's not the fact that they're foregoing
the privacy aspect in the end and the
protection of it its fact that you're
now opening it up right like I mean
that's like saying hey I can only ever
carpool with one other person in my car
because I don't like people on my car
soleil hey look I'm gonna have three
people to my car and like just as soon
as you start opening up you have issues
and I don't like this and the amount of
times that Facebook's been hammered and
hammered again from privacy issues and
data collection issues I think this is
just gonna open up a whole nother issue
it's a lawsuit waiting abbott as a
Facebook user Jeff is their biggest fan
yep we'll see how it shapes up
Apple says it's banning Facebook's
research app that collects users
personal information Facebook is at the
center of another privacy scandal and
this time it hasn't just angered users
it is also angered Apple Apple says
Facebook broke an agreement it made with
Apple by publishing a research app for
iPhone users that allowed the social
giant to collect all kinds of personal
data about those users the app allowed
Facebook to track users app history
their private messages and their
location data
Facebook's research effort reportedly
targeted users as young as 13 years old
as of last summer apps that collects
that kind of data are against Apple's
privacy guidelines that means Facebook
couldn't make this research app
available through the App Store which
would have required Apple approval
instead Facebook apparently took
advantage of Apple's developer
Enterprise program which lets approved
Apple partners like Facebook test and
distribute apps specifically for their
own employees in those cases the
employees can use third-party services
to download beta versions of apps that
aren't available to the general public
Apple doesn't review and approve those
these apps the way it does for the App
Store because they're only supposed to
be downloaded by employees who work for
the apps creator Facebook though use
this program to pay non employees as
much as $20 per month to download the
research app without apple's knowledge
Apple's response via PR rep this morning
we designed our enterprise developer
programs solely for the internal
distribution of apps within an
organization Facebook has been using
their membership to distribute a data
collecting app to consumers which is a
clear breach of their agreement with
Apple any developer using their
enterprise certificates to distribute
apps to customers their tokens consumers
will have their certificates revoked
which is what we did in this case to
protect our users and their data
Facebook pushed back on the idea that it
did anything wrong in collecting the
users data Facebook says that this
program has been
ongoing since 2016 which could be
evidence that the company wasn't trying
to skirt Apple's new policies Facebook
did not however comment on whether or
not it violated Apple's policies by
distributing the app through the
developer Enterprise program there are a
lot of reasons Facebook wants to know
what apps people are using which
explains why it went to such lengths to
get around Apple's App Store guidelines
it's unclear if Facebook's actual data
collection through this research app
poses any risks to the company Facebook
did pay users for using the app but
Facebook is also under investigation
from the FTC which is looking into its
data privacy practices anything that
feels fishy will most certainly attract
regulators attention fantastic just what
we needed in another Facebook story
about their data collection policies I
should rest my case on the previous news
oh yeah just on this let's move on
seriously I know what I Facebook builds
their business off data collection so if
they're gonna find a loophole to utilize
something to collect data they're gonna
do it well if I pay you $20 and you sign
an agreement I pay you $20 a month
you're now an employee well exactly I've
gotten around the terms and conditions
of the Apple Developer Network
necessarily well because you've got laws
that determine employees what may be a
freelance employee freelance does not
count contract don't chew kiss a look at
her yeah okay Courtney feels but I'm
just saying like is that is that a
justification like it $20 a month is
that a way of saying no well you're
looking at it from a legal perspective
that a justification to the end-user
like I don't know I didn't see it I feel
like there are only defenses that
they've been doing it for longer than
the regulations have been able okay so
yeah when you said that I'm going all
right fair enough
so prior to the regulations if they were
allowed to do it that's one thing but
when the regulations change you can't
say oh well
I rule is change and so I was doing it
before the rules so therefore you can't
make me do it follow the rules now like
that's stupid that's an ignorant
response right there I feel like at this
point there wasn't a stop sign there and
last week it's rice washing why should I
have to stop yeah exactly so far in
trying to mine information from people's
various devices and software's and all
kind of that it's it's almost become
like an obsession for the company's
going
we need more ways to get information
because we're gonna get mo on absolutely
and so but this is what they're there
that's their currency that's how they
make money like that but play within the
rules who does who makes the rules
they're the one of the biggest companies
in the world I know this but it makes
the rules this is the thing though I
think they've gone too far they've
collected too much and done it in shady
ways that they're forcing regulatory
oversight that's going to put
regulations in place that's going to
cause problems for everybody had they
have just stayed within their sandbox
and said okay this is what is socially
acceptable and not gonna get us caught
they went oh look over there
and they went way too far and
everybody's gonna go I feel like it's
around how big of a company would they
have got gotten to if they had been
playing by those rules like they're
there who they are now because of what
they've done okay but what happens with
all those regulations get put in place
they're used to playing in this area you
put a fence around like this they're
gonna go put and then what's what's left
I think the key thing is not to forget
as consumers right yeah don't forget
let's keep in mind these kinds of things
that we hear in the news and and
remember them so that when we circle
back six months from now and there's
something else happening I think part of
the problem as consumers is that we
forget of these kinds of violations to
our privacy and and this is not
affecting me now but this could very
well affect my daughter like my child
and to think that that that is
potentially an issue that were that is
worrisome to me and I know we can't stay
on this topic because we've got more
news stories but one of the interesting
things that we've found from a sociology
standpoint is that the current
millennial generation and you know
versions around that they don't care the
mindset is they've got all my
information anyway why should I be data
conscious about my privacy and so they
just don't care that's a generalization
Jeff and I don't like to do that it is
but I'm hearing it a lot more because as
these things are popping up I'm talking
to people that I know go on be aware of
this and the response overwhelming Tsume
fair yeah they've already got the
information however to be fair to that
generation there's a an entire other
side and this is not relevant to the
story but there to be fair to your
comment there's an entire other side of
young people who have grown up with the
technology and understand data privacy
and say I will not give my information
because I understand it yeah so there's
a whole computer split I don't know I
think what I've learned over you know
with my discussions with like Tony
Anne's come from ESET and and talking
about data privacy realizing that it's
kind of our generation that that is the
biggest problem because we grew up in a
time when Facebook was starting up and
it was so exciting to be able to share
so much information with so many pimples
so easily yeah and so we grew up
thinking that this was okay yeah so it's
our generation now that is really the
biggest concern when it comes to data
privacy and our data is already out
there is that the younger generation
maybe not maybe you're wrong there
that's just one one subset what are your
thoughts comment below that's how I move
on see that's how I tell Jeff okay shut
up we're gonna move on IBM hopes 1
million faces will help fight bias and
facial recognition
IBM thinks that the data being used to
train facial recognition systems isn't
diverse enough the tech giant released a
trove of data containing
1 million images of faces taken from a
Flickr data set with 1 million photos
and videos 100 million even a hundred
million 100 million photos videos the
images are and annotated with tags
related related to features including
cranial facial measurements facial
symmetry age and gender researchers at
the company a hope that those specific
details will help developers train their
artificial intelligence powered facial
recognition systems to digitally in to
identify faces more fairly and
accurately John Smith a fellow and lead
scientists at IBM said facial
recognition technology should be fair
and accurate in order for the technology
to advance it needs to be built on
diverse training data Smith's stressed
the importance of variety in data sets
for facial recognition systems to
reflect real-world diversity and reduce
the rate of error in matching a face to
a person experts have warned on the
potential for artificial intelligence to
be biased research has shown that facial
recognition technology is much more
adept at making out the faces of white
males than it is with minorities IBM
itself has been the target of criticism
over its facial recognition system a
paper by MIT researchers Oy bull what
bull last year found that IBM Watson's
visual recognition platform had it
almost 35 percent error rate when it
came to identifying darker skinned
females and a less than 1% error rate
for identifying lighter skinned males
studies such as this have heightened
concerns over the use of facial
recognition in areas like law
enforcement and the potential for AI
powered
racial profiling that's a scary thing
that I've never really given much
consideration to but if the data set is
confined to a certain right yeah yeah
well the the AI is going to be biased
and it's not lost on me how you know
we're learning
about the fact that the AI needs to be
not generic and you know able to you
know not generic at all and and the guy
doing the research is John Smith true
story true story that actually happened
you saw it here tonight it's you know
I've never fully in a shockingly I've
never fully trusted the technology
behind facial recognition because of all
the challenges that have come with it I
mean it's one thing to look at say
fingerprint analysis which has been
going on for so long now and there's I
mean other than fact there's different
identifiers it follows the same pattern
but when it comes to facial recognition
it's totally different I mean it all it
could take is you know a little bit of
change in facial hair or thrown on some
glasses to skew the entire thing I mean
how many times have we had stories where
it's like oh this computer's got the
facial recognition Oh a picture cracked
it sure well last week we learned about
AI and how it's going to be growing to
the point of being human-like and I
think until it reaches that point like I
can look at Sasha Knight that's Sasha
you see Sasha and you know that Sasha
you see Jeff you know that is Jeff right
you see me and you know that is bald
nerd right but will an AI AI is it at
that point now no no okay
can I just take it just to a weird spot
for a moment sure I just watched the
documentary on Ted Bundy okay he was
after he escaped from prison he was
really in fraction and held in a prison
and lied about his name even though
there were a ton of FBI most wanted
pictures and such he had grown out his
facial hair and human beings couldn't
recognize that he was who he was it
happens all the time I actually trust
that that a vet pardon by but he's like
humans couldn't you Minh could I well
what I'm saying is once we developed
this AI I feel like the AI would have
done a better job at figuring out hey
this
is that guy then we could ourselves I
see right so I think that I mean I have
a lot of faith in AI as you know I think
that it could do better than us we just
have to train it how to do so so these
pictures in this facial recognition and
these you know exposure to all different
types of faces right that is that's the
win because yeah you see me and you see
Sasha right but I could change how I
look I could change my hair I as a human
would still recognize well but you say
that in this instance it wasn't it
wasn't recognizable right but that's
because you're not looking like you're
looking at the extras on the outside of
me where I think that AI will be looking
at like my bone structure as what
somewhere he knows you like thinking of
the AI piece and comparing that to human
intelligence I know Jeff well enough
that when he grows in his beard I still
know that who he is I would still
recognize him from across the street
right but would everybody no not
necessarily
no I was out the gym saw somebody that
I've known for years and they're like
Jeff okay I was like took them yes like
wow dude beard totally changed you yeah
yeah right
and I got fat you're at the gym yeah try
to also slug him yeah what about things
like identical twins like I I've known a
couple sets of identical twins growing
up and you know I can look at them and I
know the difference absolutely
like there's just my new things yeah but
I wonder would a eye and facial
recognition home 0.4 get there yes
because I would say that identical twins
anybody has different micro-expressions
right and AI is going to be smart enough
to distinguish one versus the other
right I have identical twin sisters and
I can see the difference in them
oh no you've met one of them
well we're not that when we're not there
yet but we as humans can recognize the
difference between identical twins right
we're not there yet with AI but could
this be so Watson getting this infusion
of a hundred million faces from Flickr
being able to recognize other races
other other ethnicities if you you know
like just other sexes I mean why is it
white males as what was the data set
that they were given is that like the
majority of the base on I just but but
my like the whole point is is that maybe
with an increased data set it's just
about training the computer because the
computer needs to know yeah because it's
like it's it's like a puppy it's just
gotta learn it's just gotta learn and
then it'll get there and then we'll all
be better people because of it I hope so
I'm really ready all right let's take a
quick look at cryptocurrency this week
according to coin gecko here's what the
crypto market looked like as of 1800
hours Eastern Time on Wednesday January
30th 2019 Bitcoin is at three thousand
four hundred sixty two dollars and
thirty four cents down seventy dollars
and seven cents u.s. litecoin actually
gained just a fraction @ 31.7 5 USD
108 dollars and 32 cents for aetherium
Manero is at forty three dollars and 46
cents just a little bit down from last
week stellite and turtle coin the little
guys
well stellite sitting around where it
was last week and turtle coin is down a
little bit at 1.15 ten thousandth of a
cent
remember the crypto currency market
never closes and it's always volatile
big thanks to Roy W Nash so boo and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm Jeff
Weston thank you again for being
with us again this week two times can I
say a game and one one sentence yes it's
yeah we'll say it again uh it's been
great having you here I can't wait to
see you again next week we look forward
to every single Wednesday night and I
hope you do too
we'll see you next week
[Applause]
