[Music]
hi and thanks for tuning into the
endpoint security dot CA podcast from
positive e solutions I'm Robbie Ferguson
and through the course of this podcast
combined with our blog we want to
provide you with a free resource to be
able to educate yourself and your staff
about the very cyber security issues
that are affecting your company in 2019
the year is well underway and everyone
is back in business and that makes this
a very good time for us to reflect
together on some of the most significant
security developments that happened last
year as well as the implications for
security in the year to come now
things are moving very quickly so far in
2019 the eternal cat-and-mouse game
between security specialists and the bad
guys is both accelerating and becoming
more complex so what you look out for
this year well my first guest is Tony
Anne's CIM he's a global security
evangelist and industry ambassador for
ESET Tony welcome to the show Tony I
want to get right into it let's talk
about crypto jackin of all the types of
cybercrime we're currently facing in
2019 crypto jackin seems to be
relatively new to public awareness can
you explain to us what that is and why
it's becoming a threat so relates to
crypto currencies so we've all heard
Bitcoin and a number of the other crypto
currencies those crypto currencies
require mining to be created so there's
this encryption algorithm and kind of
contest that the miners need to
undertake to create the ledger that
controls the currencies and it's a
really resource intensive tasks so
crypto jacking is rather than me buying
lots of servers and trying to perform
these encryption tasks what I do is I
still resource from your machine where
the levels from malware or through
scripts on websites etc and your machine
runs slowly
not benefit as the Crypt as the person
crypto jackin your machine no okay
see cuz when I hear the term crypto
jackin I might think well I don't do
crypto currency so it's not going to
affect me but what you're saying is this
is somebody using my hardware or my
company's hardware in order to mine
their own cryptocurrency absolutely what
happens is then the currency pays them
for actually performing those tasks
because they have a malicious pool is
your machine that's performing that's us
right how prevalent is this well it's it
became very prevalent in 2018 so if 2017
was going to all about ransomware I'd
say 2018 was a big crypto jacking year
and there's two there's two reasons one
you had the explosion of cryptocurrency
in in actual value but you also then
towards the end of the year that
flattens out both in the value of the
currency and the cost of the the actual
processing so that somebody doing this
legitimately is becoming you know fairly
flat so actually it's better to do it
through crypto jackin by stealing
resource than it is to do it
legitimately
yeah I see and of course in business we
have really powerful servers we've got
some great workstations on our network
and if crypto jackin we're to be able to
infiltrate our network well they've got
a powerful network to use and suddenly
our systems are going slow how would we
as a company scan for weaknesses that
might lead to crypto jackin well the
good news is is use us as an example so
asus anti-malware product actually
blocks crypto jackin either in what i
call traditional malware so IE an
executable on your machine being
installed to use the resource or if we
see it in web pages so the other option
you go to a website that i'll whether
the browser will start using resource in
the background and actually crypto jack
as well if you come and let's just put
this in perspective current current that
these crypto currencies use huge amounts
of power to do this massive amounts of
power
per attraction per transaction on
Bitcoin where I live here in California
the actual transaction cost in energy is
around about a hundred dollars so I'm
just putting it in real terms Tony
that's great information I want to move
on to another area of concern for people
both on business and consumers it's the
Internet of Things of course we've got
devices like smart doorbells in Google
home or Amazon echo and they're all
connected to the Internet and recently
you know this ties in the state of
California passed regulation that will
in fact ban consumer electronics from
being manufactured with default
passwords such as admin and so have
other states or countries done the same
and and how does that kind of tie in to
our concerns about the Internet of
Things well firstly it's defined kind of
the Internet of Things as you and I
night there's the consumer stuff of as
you said the doorbells and whatnot we
have in our homes but let's also think
about the businesses as well as if you
were going to move up this and into a
smart new office today you know you're
going to have automated lights your
building will know about occupancy the
building itself will have sensors for
air quality for temperature for you know
some of the utilities that you use so
you're going to move into a smart
building now that smart building and
effect is one giant IOT device so this
isn't just about the doorbells and the
toasters that you have at home this is
actually in our workplace in our cities
and even in manufacturing with
industrial IOT so this is a huge huge
huge market now I come back come back to
your point about regulation yeah IIT has
been around for yeah realistically it's
been fashionable for about three to five
years it's become a lot more normal with
the introduction of home assistance you
know
chair to listen to your voice and I laid
all the things and control devices in
your home but security hasn't been on
everybody's mind yeah technology
technology vendors of running
devote these great devices without
thinking about security and suddenly we
see the bad guys taking and taking
advantage of some of those devices and
also we're over sharing you know whether
whether it be us as consumers or
businesses but you know where does the
data go who has it where as it held you
know some stage regulation had to step
in so you've seen regulation here in
California the UK have put out 15
principles and in fact the first first
principle is exactly the same as the
principle you mentioned about passwords
yeah example the GSMA the mobile lot so
the mobile carriers and operators
organization have also put out fairly
good standards on IOT security for
carriers you know I would liken this
back to early Wi-Fi if you and I drove
down the street maybe 10 or 15 years ago
when Wi-Fi first came around we could
connect to anybody's Wi-Fi I'm sure if
it was encrypted yeah those were the
days of free internet they were the days
because you could just park outside
somebody's house connect and if you were
if you were a road warrior so to speak
you know I think IOT is is in that curve
where you know Wi-Fi good encryption and
there you go down that Street and you
can connect to nothing yeah I think I
hope that IOT is in that same phase
where in two years time you know we'll
be sat here there have been some
regulation that will force the thought
about security by design ok you know
vendors making the devices but what we
don't want is too much regulation
because over-regulation stops innovation
sure and it should almost be the
responsibility of the companies to just
make wise as you say security as the
mindset during the development process
so looking back at that example of
California's regulation about passwords
not being ridiculously easy to guess
passwords on devices that come out of
the manufacturing plant is that that
regulation the need to have stronger
passwords as you you know get a brand
new product is that valid protection
against hacking or should this be the
responsibility of the individual
consumers or the IT admin
well I think that regulation
specifically well it's it's there so you
think about security as the vendor
building the device
so hopefully you will go much much
further beyond that but as the consumer
yeah I mean when you unbox the device
you've got to set the password but the
problem is is is there complacency
within consumers of creating the same
password on everything is it too complex
we have a ticketing passwords yes
but however you can't use complicated
passwords and you can use other other
methods Toni users tend to find password
management to be a chore so we end up
using the same passwords over and over
again opening us up to yet another
vector of attack so what's the best way
that you can suggest for people to be
able to practice better password hygiene
so let's just cover the complicated
password thing first you know I'm
obviously a Brit so I'm a football fan
and that's the football with the rent
around football king you know yes so if
you're just say you're a Manchester
United supporter and their plan mayor
let's give you a Liverpool this weekend
I could have you know a password that
says a menu for Manchester United five L
IV for Liverpool zero and I could put an
exclamation mark at the end none of its
real words it's only meaningful to me
it's about the score or a particular
game it's probably very very hard for
something to guess mmm
yeah I'm sure you're saying this is like
a recipe for creating a stronger
password yes so think of a passphrase
you know rather that rather than a
password and then take characters out
the passphrase it's an easy way of
remembering it if you drive a red Audi
car there you go we've got three
characters are I you see now yeah if
your wife drives a blue Nissan Micra
yeah I've got blue yeah and you can
combine the two and you can put some
special characters in and you can do to
virtually anything you can think of in
life and you can create your own strong
passwords in memorable terms but not
using real words and not things a side
acronym is going
relax uhmm as first regulation goes Tony
what do you see the internet-of-things
what what are the regulations going to
evolve into and how can they cover
through regulatory decisions the
diversity of the Internet of Things
products well there's going to be
different regulation for different
industries so for example let's take alt
on immerse vehicles you know own
autonomous vehicles sitting on your
drive is one giant IOT device but
however because it's a road-going
vehicle there'll be heavy regulation on
how the technology is implemented how it
communicates what data it stores etc etc
you know if I have a connected toaster
the the likelihood of somebody
regulating my connected toaster is going
to be fairly minimal by the way I don't
understand why anybody has a connecting
kettle or toaster so make par toast yeah
good for them if they do have you know I
don't I don't see the reason so I think
different industries will see different
things and as we move towards smart
cities with air quality sensors etc that
it becomes more apparent and if you
think about smart let's come back to
that smart building example even in your
even in the building you're sitting in
there's probably some type of industry
plant room where the high-tech systems
are the you know the fire panel is etc
etc in in a couple years times all those
that will probably be connected in some
way yeah is the new ransomware me coming
along as a cyber criminal and turning
around and controlling your height fact
system turning the heat up and turning
around and saying I'll turn it off when
you pay me Wow now if we take that one
step further and put that in a hospital
it could be very state could be a
significant attack so those type of
things I think you people need to think
about how to secure what the value of
the device is what it can control and
what the outcome could be and I think
the regulators will think that way too
it makes me think about data breaches
and data breaches are kind of seeming to
become an everyday occurrence now Tony
do you think that there's a danger that
that people are going to become
complacent about data breaches like
how can companies or regulators drive
home a sense of urgency about staying
careful online well so firstly will
people become complacent
I think they already are yeah
unfortunately yeah I'll ask you the
question of have you been part of a data
breach me personally no I would assume
you probably that but if 10% of people
open a phishing scam attachment then the
answer is well one in ten people are
part of that data breach but somebody
has brought you whether whether you've
been part of the Facebook breach or the
Google+ but always a very jumpy you know
you your data will have been part of
some I see what you mean you mean my
data my director you'll have this Risa
mm-hmm so my question my question is is
what did you do to then protect yourself
you know those companies that typically
have a data breach then offer some type
of ID theft protection service that
looks for your data being sold on the
dark web or monitors the information
that was actually stolen did you
register for it and the answer is it you
know when I go round and ask consumers
did you it they typically all look blank
and say no yeah because we don't hear
about what happens to the data from a
consumer standpoint so actually what
happens when some you know somebody
steals this data always stole it but we
never hear about the actual outcome well
I have a personal story here yeah
British Airways had a breach last year
very public breach yeah you know very
unfortunate on that on one of their
websites a cyber criminal used my credit
card details for six thousand dollars
worth of insurance Wow now I will say my
banks that Tim refunded the money and
avoided the transactions there were 42
transactions already before they stopped
it well actually before i stiii ran the
banking term and said i think you should
start this on no while they were super
good i will say they were super good
and yeah all the money was refunded and
the whole issue but we don't hear those
stories yeah so my point is as a
consumer we need to really think about
things and then we come back to what
businesses have businesses should think
in just a moment but when you should
wait yeah you we've just had the holiday
season yeah when you shut for the gifts
online but if you create accounts and
the places where you bought gifts or did
you shop did you check out as guests did
you store the credit card details on
those sites hmm yeah other sites you're
going to go back to before net the next
holiday season yeah probably not so
you're doing there yeah it has that -
box checkout as guests if you're not
going to shop there more than once a
month don't create an account who shop
as guests don't get allow them to store
the data you don't need to put you know
I can type my credit card number yeah
sure yeah these things are all good good
ways to protect yourself then from the
business side you know businesses need
to think about who has access to the
data they need to segment who in
organisations have have access yeah and
if you look at data breaches they
typically start with Fisher spear
phishing attacks so they're targeted
attacks by a cyber criminal sending in
phishing emails looking for credentials
or looking for something right to give
them network access and then they steal
the data you know educate your employees
and that's one of the big things in here
yeah it's to educate employees but also
think about what data you're collecting
I don't know maybe I need to know you as
an account maybe I don't need to know
everything about you maybe I don't some
of the questions I'm asking are nice for
me to have yeah as a company but maybe I
don't need all of it and if you've not
shot with me for a year maybe I can
delete your account anyway maybe I don't
get removed data so companies need to
step up and take some of that
responsibility as well yeah outside of
the company is there any particular
demographic like say our students more
susceptible or perhaps the elderly are
they more prone to being careless about
data security actually I think is you
and I are the problem here really so so
I think students are far more conscious
about privacy if you think about the
- the Facebook generation that you and I
in - that it sad that the Facebook
generation now means we're old yeah the
internet came along it was great
phenomena we shared everything yeah
because it was wasn't it awesome yet
that you could share any anything if you
go and talk to you know that younger
generation that I would say under 22 you
know that have been brought up with
technology as normal you know they've
moved to snapchat they don't share
everything they've most of their
accounts are private they think about
yeah they've been educated slowly or
better than we have so actually I think
the generation that is kind of some of
the problem is us and I would say that
senior generation as well because they
don't understand the consequence some of
the consequences
but I think I think our generation is
that is the one that needs the most
education and I think we still need it
yeah if you if you talk to that younger
generation and ask them have you had to
ask somebody to remove something from
the internet about you they'll turn and
say yes one of my parents yeah because
we like to share yeah Wow and and we're
we're the the working-age individuals
like we're the ones running the IT
departments and and that's that's a
scary scary fact that we would be the
most susceptible Wow so let's change
modes a little bit here Tony that's some
great food for thought but I want to
talk about GDP our it was a big story
last year went live in May and it
represents a significant step forward in
the regulation of data and privacy
online at least when it comes to Europe
so what are your views about maybe other
countries that could follow suit who's
doing it and who is lagging behind in
that regard so the first is coming with
GDP ras you know in very very simplified
terms it means a it puts you as the
consumer the oh no the the person who
the data is about it puts you back in
control of the data a company has that
we
we ask for your consent to collect the
data and you have to opt into it so
suddenly now I'm back in control as the
consumer so this is a really positive
thing empowering consumers and who does
it actually cover it covers anybody in
the EU now I specifically say in the EU
because if you get on a plane and land
in London today you are in the EU so
therefore your EPP are covers you okay
when you fly back out of London and you
don't get back to Canada it doesn't
cover you yeah but while you're there
and you interact with a Canadian website
that you're your yeah you do lots of
stuff with because it's home that
Canadian website has to be gdpr
compliant because you're actually coming
from the new year so actually I think
gdpr well it's a European regulation has
has and will have an effect below
Burleigh yeah because companies will
have to do something for those people
coming to their service from within
Europe so therefore once I've done it
for one I may as well start thinking
about doing some of those things for
everybody in protecting them in similar
ways and you've already seen some other
countries step in
I mean Canada character is a great
example with the enter their spam
legislation yeah about the protections
around spam spamming emails and use of
email addresses California can actually
put in place some privacy legislation
after gdpr
was legislated last year so other
countries will follow suit and states
will follow suit without without
question and have any countries fallen
behind are there any that are ignoring
gdpr I'm not sure well the ignoring gdpr
could be very costly if you know he
regulates it can come and find if they
find if I find you in breach so so I
think this year we'll see some big
companies probably full foul of that
regulation and we'll see some big fines
handed out and they will try and make
examples so that it forces
companies to step up which is obviously
good for us as consumers right we'll
we'll other countries that are falling
behind well not every country
unfortunately thinks in the same way you
know some come some countries allow the
collection of data and you know hearing
for example here where I'm based in the
US my ISP has the right to collect my
browsing history hmm I don't think most
consumers realize that I will say most
ISPs have a privacy statement that says
they don't but they have the right to
okay yeah my point is is there's no
regulation that actually stops them from
doing this goichi do I see regulation
coming on that probably not because
there's no there's no there's no in
Europe you had different cultures some
that were very private to start with so
you had you already had a momentum of
people that wanted that privacy I'm not
sure every country has that momentum in
the consumer field of wanting that
privacy now if they were collecting that
information so your browser history
presumably they are susceptible they're
not susceptible to GDP are in that case
because you're an American you're on
American soil right so that doesn't
apply so there's nothing really
protecting you should a data breach
occur so that's why I encrypt with my
dice' leaving my home yes I actually see
what I'm doing I see so you're in and
this is just your online practice is to
encrypt everything yes yes but then on
the cybersecurity person so yeah that
need to be safe and secure you would
expect so but your credit card was one
of the ones that were compromised and so
it's not necessarily a direct cause and
effect by you it's not something that
you did wrong so we need to be educated
as far as understanding how these things
happen and be more careful with our data
and we don't think when we hear about a
day to bridge don't take it for granted
that it's not going to happen to you
right and that's my point that's my
point of sharing that personal story
if it actually did happen yeah I was
part of the data breach and did
something happened yes
if cyber criminals will steal the data
what happens that data then goes onto
the dark web yeah something it goes for
sale just somebody else will buy
somebody else will use it or exploit it
in otherwise well that's our fishing
campaigns or some otherwise all they'll
exploit the credit card details the
finance details or even medical
insurance details you know medical
triage theft yeah all these things that
yeah money making machines for cyber
criminals I mean the dark web is in very
merry big way a business for a lot of
individuals that are you know cyber
criminals so I think about how that data
if it's not presumably valuable it may
sit on the dark web without a buyer for
some time so then I can become
complacent thing oh yeah my data was
compromised in that particular breach
but nothing has happened so I don't
think anything's ever going to happen
but then suddenly five years later
someone buys the data and I had that
same password that was compromised on my
online banking or some other account
yeah I mean think about multiple levels
of authentication and also multiple you
know I I have multiple email addresses
because I have what I've defined as my
throw by email address the one that you
know you use for those party invites or
the regular stuff that comes the things
that I like to lead to spam me know okay
yeah or where I don't think security is
really conscious I always use a
different email address hmm yeah and
then my yeah my bank and my other staff
have a have a different email address so
I use for nothing else okay so my fight
yeah I separate and separate these
things otherwise you know my bank I use
the SMS open authentication you know I
can also use fingerprint scanning if I
choose on the app you use that secondary
authentication method as well is it
clean full yes slightly you know does it
take me an extra 30 seconds to log onto
things yeah but you know hopefully I
stay secure but as we've already
established
I'm secure to a certain degree yeah
cybercriminals dick get my credit card
information from somebody again from a
site that I trusted you know the other
thing is you know credit counts or don't
use debit cards don't use credit cards
when you use a credit card online make
sure it's a credit card that has a
certain limit mm you don't use your
debit card because it has access to your
bank account it's fantastic information
Tony and I know that we're running short
on time so finally I'd like to ask you
could you provide for us three pillars
of advice so first if you have the
opportunity Tony to make a universal
announcement to every individual
consumer and non IT person out there
about cyber security what would you say
it really has to be the point of don't
think it's not going to happen to you
because it probably has happened to you
you've probably been part of the breach
in some way so engaging the subject and
and consciously consider who has your
data and why you're providing the data
so you know next time you install an app
on your phone if it's a flashlight app
and it's saying I it needs access to
your contacts don't install it yeah
because it doesn't need access to your
contacts you know when you go shopping
online yeah if if you're not going to
buy anything other than that one thing
don't create the account type your
credit card details in yeah consciously
make a decision about who who has your
data why they have your data and start
taking control of it and engaging the
subject all right secondly Tony what
would you say if you had the ear of
every CEO or a senior corporate decision
maker so the big one of the biggest
things yeah there's this stacks of
technology companies you can use to
protect themselves yeah you could have
an endless cyber security budget oh the
gay you've good security technology and
make sure it's updated and make sure you
continually invest in it the first thing
I would say to any CEO is educate your
employees if you look at the data
breaches that have happened over the
last two to three years the vast
majority of them come from spear
phishing attacks this is a human issue
yeah where somebody clicks a link they
give up their credentials they think
that
a legitimate email and they open the
doors to your network so employee
education has to be the biggest thing I
would say to any CEO you know make sure
there's an active program in place and
make sure it's a frequent program you
know make sure you continually run it
and refresh it finally what would you
say to every overworked IT professional
Tony this is such a great question
stop complaining yeah yeah it's what
keeps us all in work and it keeps what
keeps us salaries in a really very Gulf
but on a seriousness on being a little
bit more serious you know overworked IT
professionals yeah is I've been in the
game now 25 years and for almost 45
years I won't consider that I've been
overworked in that way and prioritize
look to see you know we're now in the
age of automation and things can be able
to make it prioritize that things that
can be automated and things you can pass
off to technology allow them to go off
and do it only put yourself any
interesting things so prioritize on the
on the really core things you know need
to do Tony that's a lot of sage and
timely advice it's good that there are
experts like yourself who are willing to
make it easier for us to understand and
give the type of guidance that's so
essential these days this is an industry
where no person or company can take too
much time to make decisions knowledge
and action need to be everyday events
here at endpoint security dot CA we're
obviously very concerned for the safety
and security of our customers their
businesses and their data but as our
chat here shows that concern can't just
end there it's the data and activities
of other people as well those who
somehow someway get connected to our
customers through legitimate means as
well as through the breaches and hacks
that continue to plague our connected
world we have a blog that follows up
from this conversation as I mentioned
and you can find it at blog endpoint
security dot CA and as always our close
relationship with the experts at ESET
means that we have your back so thank
you Tony for joining me today well thank
you very much Joe it's been great to be
here and thank you for to
in stay safe out there and be sure to
join us again for the next chapter in
our ongoing series on cybersecurity for
Canadian business I'm Robbie Ferguson
stay safe
