welcome to category five technology TV
episode number 403 it's Tuesday the 9th
of June 2015 and so nice to have you
here tonight we've got an exciting show
for you we've got a chance for you to
win a free copy of unread six-row oh
we're gonna be talking all about the new
unraised 6 which is up-and-coming and
we've got a very big announcement with
regards to that product if you haven't
heard of it you're gonna hear it hear
about it tonight stick around it's very
exciting stuff when it comes to data
storage virtualization gaming multimedia
all of the above and so much more ok
over the newsroom Sasha how are ya I am
great here's what's coming up in the
category 5 TV newsroom a South Korean
robotics team has won the DARPA Robotics
Challenge Google has unveiled a
collection of 40 new special Street view
images as part of its latest update and
those ones are underwater YouTube's new
analytics tool music insight revealed
some surprising stats about the world's
most popular musicians and the first
steam machines are available to
pre-order stick around the full details
are coming up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV
starring Sasha dramatis Hillary Rumble
Cristo wells
your kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
welcome to the show this is category
five technology TV so nice to see you
I'm Robbie Ferguson Erika how you been
good good great going back to school
back more school but it'll be good and
you know what I'll be experienced I'll
be an experienced college student so I
know what to expect now you know it's so
hard yeah you marketing marketing
managing small businesses how much small
business thing mark I feel like there's
a rap song awesome hey tonight got an
exciting show for you we're gonna be
talking about under age six it's an
up-and-coming product and we are gonna
jump right into it and this is an
exciting night because we have a big
announcement for you and hey if you if
you are joining us from the unread
community welcome to the show
if you haven't heard of category five
technology TV before well it's it's
super great to have you here and I hope
that you'll join us on an ongoing basis
we're big fans of under eight and it was
so nice to jump back into the unread
forums and into the community there and
see some of you such a great community
that you've got going on over there and
so what is unread well we're gonna hear
from a guy that knows all about it in
just a couple minutes time but basically
let's just say this your computer has so
much power these days I mean
unbelievable amounts of power
you've got gaming computers that you
know people buy that have these
incredible CPUs these processors and the
GPUs are underutilized but the
processors have virtualization
technology and a lot of us are really
just more interested in I just want my
computer to be fast so I got the one
that has the high end processor
well you don't realize that there are
some features that are included on that
chip that we're probably not utilizing
to their full extent so tonight's
product what we're going to be looking
at is going to actually help us to
really utilize
the processing power of our storage NAS
devices maybe we can create a little bit
of a server just to give you an idea
that we could game on and it has massive
amounts of storage and redundancy and
that is able to play our multimedia
files to many different devices
simultaneously so it's a very exciting
limitless possibility product and it's
called
unmade six I'm going to jump over to a
spot just so that you can see what it's
all about and then we're going to come
back and talk to John Panozzo from line
technology right after this want to have
ultimate control over your data and
applications with unraised you can
partition system resources enabling you
to storm protect data and run any
applications you want we do this by
combining the capabilities of a Nass an
application server and a virtualization
hose all on the same systems using
almost any old PC you can create a
system capable of massive data storage
naina disks and E array can utilize 100%
of their capacity and are protected by a
single parity disk should a disk fail
simply replace it and under it will
rebuild the lost data automatically to
increase performance without sacrificing
protection HDDs for SSDs can be used to
create a cash pool as you fill your
system with data just add more storage
to increase capacity without complexity
with more memory and a better processor
you can serve applications using docker
which makes it easy to share files
backup other devices stream media and
much more with virtualization capable
Hardware you can leverage KVM so you can
watch content play games and do work
using any OS you want all on the same
hardware andrey makes it easy to turn
any system into a multi purpose
computing powerhouse you decide what you
want to build and determine your own
level of investment on rate will scale
its capabilities in parallel
all right this is category five
technology TV and tonight I am joined by
John Panozzo John it's so nice to see
you thanks for joining us tonight hi
Robby how you doing doing good man you
excellent excellent is always great
we're gonna get right into it with John
in just a couple of moments time he's
gonna be telling us all about this
exciting product of course we're
familiar with unread here on
category-five TV we featured it back in
the early 100 episodes 103 was a big
episode when it came to unread you want
to check that out if you haven't already
done so but back then under raid was
really all about what storage I suppose
a so we're talking about creating a
storage array and being able to utilize
storage space lots and lots of different
hard drives on the cheap well now unread
has come a long way John and I'd like to
hear a little bit about what unread six
means to us so if you could explain just
a little bit about what is coming and
what is on its way from lime technology
yeah absolutely well the main purpose of
under eight six really stems back to
looking at our community and the
hardware that these guys were buying to
build their Nazz you know you mentioned
this earlier a traditional network
attached storage solution doesn't really
use a lot of that processor the it
doesn't need that compute resource it
needs i/o needs input/output and what we
found is that a lot of our community
members were going out and buying these
really big systems to put all of their
data on and it's like what are you doing
with all that extra processor usage and
you do nothing this reality so what we
really wanted to do is find a way that
lets everybody take to the fullest
extent advantage of their hardware leave
no stone unturned take advantage of
every ounce of power that this thing has
to offer and it really starts by
understanding how we can safely separate
the ways that we store and protect data
from how we serve applications and from
how we create and access content in the
traditional world you're probably
familiar with this a lot of times you'll
see people have three different systems
potentially in their home a box that's
dedicated to serving applications a box
that dedicated the storage and a BA
it's dedicated to do their work on
something that they're gonna go and
download browse the web and whatnot and
the reason we always have this
separation goes back to an old-school IT
way of thinking which is separation of
duties and that's to keep every
application in its own world but because
of virtualization technology were able
to contain each one of those aspects of
computing inside of a single physical
box so that that same user can now take
those three different physical
appliances and potentially consolidate
them down to one so John and now when I
think about an ass or network attached
storage I'm thinking about something
that just holds my data so it's
somewhere that has maybe samba sharing
CIFS I'm able to drop my stuff on it and
to give you a scenario along the vein of
what you're talking about
at my house for example I've got a
storage NAS and we've got a computer
separated to then stream Plex and then
from Plex it goes to any of our devices
so we've got a Roku on the TV we've got
an amazon firetv stick and we've got our
computers and our mobile devices so how
does underage kind of streamline that
whole paradigm of how we're able to
stream something like Plex
sure so Plex is a pretty easy one it's
been around for a while and there's been
a lot of mad solutions that have
incorporated its use and so with under
aid the idea is you can add Plex is an
application directly into the platform
take advantage of all of its
capabilities and utilize your CPU to
transcode media in real time so if
you've got a mobile device that doesn't
have a good enough wireless connection
to your local Wi-Fi router and it can't
support the quality of the video that
you're trying to watch Plex will do that
for you in real time it'll transcode it
yes lower the bitrate and let it get to
that device with ease with a ton raid
the idea was to make it really easy for
folks to get Plex on their system be
able to take advantage of it along with
a whole host of other applications so in
your scenario as you described I think
you said you had a separate box that was
responsible for Plex that's been the
blocks that you had for your story it's
like it's under a sheen a Linux machine
with Plex server installed
yep so with under 8 you just literally
would put Plex right on the same box
that's storing in your data and this
does a number of things both right in
front of you as well as behind the
scenes so right in front of you it
consolidates the hardware right so
instead of having two boxes now you have
one but behind you what you're not
seeing behind the scenes is
how much less work you're putting on
your computing infrastructure to deliver
that experience so in your scenario all
that data is got to leave the NAS go to
the computer that's gonna do the
transcoding and then send all of that
out to your Roku or what other ever
device you have on the network right
with our solution everything stays in
that one box so all that heavy lifting
of getting the images and getting the
video content to the box that's gonna do
the transcoding well it's already on the
same box so it doesn't have to go over
the network for that brilliant okay I
want to know a whole lot more about this
now on raid 6 is a huge step for lying
technology's line technology sorry and
with this new release we're talking
about being able to not just have
storage and and just to backtrack a
little bit what does sunray tall weighs
meant to me it's been redundant storage
so if I have say seven hard drives that
I want to put into a computer and on
raid lets me use the entire capacity of
all of those hard drives and unlike a
traditional array and that a traditional
raid those drives don't have to match at
all I think my array has a 340 gig drive
a couple 500 gigs a 1 terabyte drive and
a couple 3 terabyte drives and they're
just all mixed matched and I think I've
even got one of them is an IDE drive and
then I've got separate SATA controllers
it's it's crazy because it comes against
all that we've ever learned with the
old-style way of thinking as an IT that
everything you know every drive had to
be exactly the same firmware the same
same size capacity and unrated totally
flipped out on its head while still
giving us single drive parity failure
tolerance so we've got the redundancy
we've got a new level of being able to
install something like Plex so can you
let's expand on that because you're the
pro when it comes to this stuff this is
all new to me now you've been developing
this for how long a little over a year
and a half now so we started at the end
of December of 2013 as when we began our
mission on on raid sex and it's been a
little over a year and a half and
development now and yeah we're very
proud of what we've been able to put
together I think that when people look
at what unreached 6 is capable of and
compare it to under 8 5 I mean we've had
people in our forums even say is
listen as anymore is this is that the
category does it fit to that category
and I still think it does I mean if
that's really what Andre was born from
but we've just found a safe way to add a
whole bunch of additional capability to
that platform letting the navs be the
base for it all really and do you have a
way that you can actually show us
welcome yeah absolutely
so yeah I'd love to give you a quick
demonstration here so let me go ahead
and turn on screen sharing here okay
great and while John is doing that I'm
just gonna let you know we are giving
away a free copy of unread six Pro and
John is going to tell us a little bit
what is different about the basic and
the the pro version and so all you have
to do now originally we had thought you
know you've got to watch this live but
then there were some people in the
unread forms that had mentioned but I
can't watch at that time because it's
whatever time it is at home because of
the timezone difference and all around
the world we've decided to extend this
over the course of the next week so if
you're watching this between now and the
let's see what is next week next week is
the 16th so if you're watching this
before June 16 2015 all you have to do
is email and that is contest at category
5 dot TV pop us an email with your we
just need your email address really out
the gate we're gonna be hosting a draw
on the on the episode next week on the
16th so back to John John if you could
show us how this works I'd love to see
it yeah absolutely so just first off
what we're looking at here is actually
our unread dashboard so this is a new
page that we added in on raid 6 okay so
I'm still seeing I'm still seeing you
just so you're aware oh you are let's
see what's going on with screen sharing
here ok this is live TV there we go he's
got a figure there it is you know what
for all it's worth with all the
technology that could go wrong that was
pretty impressive it took about five
seconds to fix John so well done well
you know it's one of those things where
I double clicked instead of single
clicking so - bored so this is again
it's a new page we added to the web GUI
for unread and it gives you kind of a
summary view of your system and one of
the new things that everybody notices
right off the bat at the top here is
this new apps panel and this gives you a
bird's-eye view of everything that's
running on your system in real time
so what I wanted to show to kick things
off was what it's like using
applications on an as that's a little
bit different on under aid than maybe
what you're used to so we'll start with
maybe one that people are familiar with
and that's plaques so I might be maybe I
went a little too quick there I should
slow down so when you click an app icon
you get a number of options and to
actually launch the app you'll click the
web UI icon and this actually brings me
into Plex this is familiar world to you
you're probably used to seeing this I
can go and I can play any movie that I
want to play if I want to watch The
Bourne Ultimatum I hit play and just so
you know the box that I'm doing this all
on right now and I'm streaming from is
the same box that I'm talking to you
from it's the same box that I'm working
within right now really hot because I'm
able to do this all on the same system
at the same time so this is just a basic
example of a traditional app that most
people are used to but you know when I
think about how we do applications on
hundred six showing Plex is great but if
you look at Plex it's pretty much the
same on every NASA platform so let's
talk about an app that maybe you're not
used to seeing and that's an app that
has a full what we call desktop GUI
so when people think about apps to put
on an as we're thinking about web-based
applications things that are designed to
be served through a browser but what
about an app that needs a front-end
client piece of software so from the
Linux perspective of things there are
apps out there that just aren't
available as a web-based version yet and
CrashPlan is one of them another is the
virt-manager for virtual machines that
runs on a boon - yeah these are not
available as traditional web-based
applications so well how do we get into
those guys well what we can actually do
is we can log in and get equivalent of
too quick there I get the equivalent of
a full desktop session but through a
browser so what you're seeing now this
is not a web-based application this is a
full GUI client that you would expect to
see on a Windows a Mac or a Linux
desktop PC and through this client I'm
able to go ahead and configure on my own
raid system which folders and which user
shares I want to backup really if I want
to add a backup I simply click it I hit
save and again this is all a web-based
experience but not coming from a
web-based world so are you looking at
you're looking at a Linux desktop
obviously in this situation
so could we run any Linux program in
there just like virtualization would
pretty much yeah I mean this is
essentially the equivalent of a virtual
desktop you know the one difference is
that it's using the processor to render
all the graphics so there are some
things that might not have as solid of
an experience as they would on a full
desktop where everything is local
nothing is remote but for any type of
app that requires basic administration
something like CrashPlan and even some
higher-end apps like we have video
editing and picture editing software
they are usable over a remote connection
but it's a great way to be able to add
just a huge library of applications that
were previously unaccessible to somebody
who wanted to load them on an ass sure
John how hard is it for you to switch
back to your camera when you're chatting
with us because we're looking at a still
screen there I'd love to be able to see
you when we're chatting
yeah sorry about that no that's cool
that is awesome so is that a VNC
connection like what are we actually
looking at when you're bringing that up
well we'll do another one here to give
you an example and this is an RDP
connection just like the last one was so
this is a an application that's for
photo editing it's something that a
photographer would probably use and with
all our people here yep it automatically
pops up as soon as I launch the
connection so again it's all delivered
through a browser interface but this is
just like the previous one and RDP
connection so we're leveraging the
remote desktop protocol because it
delivers frankly a better user
experience than VNC when you have this
kind of content that you need to display
right now I don't see a GUI for an
operating system is how are we well in
this instance the goal of this
particular what we call container is
just this one particular app just that
so this is the only app you need to
launch in here and that's kind of the
idea of docker which which I should
probably explain so I'm gonna cut back
to video here for a second sure to
explain docker so the the way that I'm
doing this the way that I'm launching
each of these apps and doing this safely
is by making sure that they each live in
their own personal bubble so if I make
it so that they live in their own
personal bubble they can't touch each
other and they can't cause problems with
each other and that's what happens a lot
of times with applications support is
you get in this scenario where one app
messes with another's dependencies and
now the whole thing comes crashing down
on you
so we isolate every app into its own
bubble so that they can't affect one
another and that's how docker works so
I'm able to run Plex in its own world
guacamole is an RDP gateway that lets me
connect to other virtual instances
darktable like we said is a photo
editing software
yeah CrashPlan is for my backups but
each of these lives in their own world
and what's great is if one of these
needs let's say Ubuntu and another needs
fedora and another needs Red Hat it does
not matter which operating system the
app was written for it will run just the
same and this happens because as we
download these applications every bit
that is required to run them is
automatically downloaded from something
called the docker registry so if you're
trying to run CrashPlan for the first
time it's gonna say ok this containers
based on a boon to do you have a boon to
know you don't let me pull that free
automatic aliy that sounds spectacular
John we still don't have your video so
we're just kind of looking at my bald
mug today but if you're able to get that
back up oh here it comes
perfect thank you so is this like a
traditional virtualization style
platform docker sounds a lot different I
mean being able to launch and it is very
difficult it's very different so the
best way to understand docker is for
people who understand virtual machines
the way I explain it to them is that
it's virtual machines without emulation
and way smarter resource management so
the biggest thing that VMs would add to
a system is a little bit of overhead
right because you have to emulate
hardware but docker is Linux aware so
that means that docker and this you
could be seen as a limitation it only
works with Linux applications so because
it only works with Linux applications
the guys at docker were able to take
advantage of everything Linux has to
offer pull out all the stops and
leverage things like snapshotting so
again let's say I have three apps here
one of them needs a bone - and another
needs a bone - and another needs a bone
- I only pull the aboon - image into my
storage once it realizes that it's
already there and for the other apps it
makes a snapshot of that image so that
if they need to make modifications to
settings or anything like that you know
each container still remains its own
identity its own settings its own
original data but I'm not replicating
all that storage over and over and over
again that I would with a VM it's almost
like a volume Shadow Copy
sorts it sounds like it's that's another
way to think it I mean people have tried
to come up with good analogies for
docker but it solves so many different
problems in such a unique way it's hard
to come up with analogy that fits it
correctly but I try to think of it as
like the ultimate apt gets the ultimate
online apps store combined with a free
way to publish applications up there so
anyone can contribute to docker so our
community members who had been providing
previously plugins for a long time they
had expressed some challenges to us real
rd relate yeah relating to application
support and what we wanted to do is just
make things easier for them give them
access to tools that andre doesn't have
access to and containers do that for us
it lets them pick whatever platform they
want to develop for use whatever tools
that platform has to offer and push
something out to the world that anyone
with under aid can consume awesome we're
speaking with John Panozzo from lime
technology they are the developers of
unread and of course unraised six we've
got a big announcement for you coming up
if you have a question for myself or
John give us a call in the cat5 it's 20
the cat phone it's 25 45 cat five TV and
of course you can also message us in the
chatroom erica is making an effort to
keep track of
yeah everyone's loving the interview
with John right now of course that's
great and we ask you a quick question so
is is any unread sick support for MB as
a media browser absolutely yeah there is
actually an MB container available that
you can add to on raid thanks to our
community so there's actually little
over a hundred and fifty applications so
far that our community has made
specifically designed for unread to make
it really easy to launch but you
actually have access to over 14,000
pre-built images that are available from
Wow
so the way we explain this to folks is
there's two ways to add an app the easy
way and a little bit harder way the easy
way is right through our web interface
where our container authors have gone
through the process of configuring
templates so folks can just click and
get going but technically if you're a
developer and you want to mess around
with stuff that we haven't even
published yet you have access to
anything that's available on docker
really Wow okay now John
yeah with unrated itself being a web
interface I see that you're sitting at
the unraised system you're basically
operating it with multiple monitors
multiple video cards because it's
web-based can I do the things that
you're showing us can I do those from
other locations can I bring that up on
different devices or different computers
yeah absolutely I mean the web GUI 400
is just a browser-based web client so
any device that has a browser should be
able to connect to it and interact with
it you know obviously the experience of
a LAN connection and over the internet
connection might be a little different
than on a land so some things I know on
a LAN will be better than on a win but
in terms of being able to access I'll
give you a great example the video that
you showed at the beginning well there
were many late nights doing editing on
that video where I would actually go
home from the office here and connect
into the office over a VPN and then use
Microsoft RDP to get into my workstation
that's running as a VM on on raid and do
the editing do a big chunk of the
editing from home on my macbook
connected to a Windows 8 instance so can
it be done remotely absolutely am I
gonna stream a game that is generating
3d content in real time over a five
megabit upload maybe not maybe not okay
makes sense now let's talk about gaming
what kind of gaming can we do with
unread six what does this bring to the
gamer well there's a lot of things that
it brings so the biggest thing again we
talked at the beginning about getting
the most out of your hardware investment
so again we saw these folks that were
going out there they were buying this
sometimes Aeon class processors you know
these really high-end Intel processors
that have all these capabilities with
virtualization and folks just don't
understand how to take advantage of them
properly
well again the virtual machine that I'm
working on right now we're talking on
and I'm looking at it through a monitor
I'm not going through a remote graphics
connection at all and that's because I
can assign a video card at a Street GPU
from my system to a VM and then provide
drivers support for that device directly
from the VM so in my system I'm running
an nvidia gtx 780 graphics card and I'm
outputting those graphics from a Windows
VM to my displays even though the
operating system if you look at it this
way that the hardware is really running
on is unrated so what this does is it
lets me get all of the full power of
that GPU dedicated to a single virtual
instant
and I could launch a game right now and
start playing and I wouldn't notice a
difference between that and physical can
we do that can we can try good action
but it's oh yes okay that's gonna affect
yeah we don't want to knock you this is
my game library I'll pull it up for you
to show real quick and well what it's
sounding like to me is that unread you
mentioned about people asking well is it
still just an ass is it classified as an
ass it's really sounding a lot like a
hypervisor to me but with direct
Hardware connections for the virtual
machines hypervisor is a feature to us
so we're not we're not trying to be a
hypervisor as much as we're trying to
utilize a hypervisor as a feature so the
hypervisor we use is called KVM some
people might note remember it is human
qmu and essentially it is a feature of
the Linux kernel that lets us create VMs
so this is different than some folks
might remember about traditional
virtualization where the hypervisor is
the OS you install the hypervisor with
KVM that's not the case it's just a
feature it's just a component and what
our kernel can do nice ok so show us
more yeah so you know from the gaming
perspective there's a couple big things
that I like to talk about so first is
gaming storage management so one of the
biggest things that frustrates me as a
gamer personally is when I would go to
install a game I want to put the game on
my really fast SSDs
why well I wanted to load quick I want
to be the first in every multiplayer
match I want to be the first off the
line and that's what most gamers will do
is they want to load the new games on
the fast storage and put the old games
on the old storage but unfortunately
Windows doesn't make it really easy for
us neither to steam to just migrate
these games from one location to another
you actually have to uninstall them then
reinstall them telling Windows hey I
want you to go to the D Drive instead of
the C Drive yeah but one of the things
that we're working on at an upcoming
release is going to be able to move
these games from one storage device to
another but not making windows aware so
for example my entire games library here
familiar with our users share concept
all of them go through our user shares
so the idea is if I want to move a game
from living on an SSD to an HDD Windows
still sees it as C colon slash bla bla
bla it still sees the same path but on
the back end on the storage management
side we connect
move where those blocks set from being
on really fast SSDs and slow hdds and
never have to go through that reinstall
process again so are you using SSDs as
part of your unread or a then absolutely
so we actually use a combination and
this goes into a feature update that
also comes with on raid six which is our
ability to pool cache devices so in the
old on raid you know the old saying was
very simple you could get a large amount
of storage on an unrated system by
having one parity device and a large
number of dedicated data discs like you
said could be any type speed size brand
protocol it doesn't make a difference
yeah well we also had a feature called
the cache and the cache is job was to
simply accelerate write operations to
the array and that was it and the cache
was great but it had one major flaw and
that was it didn't offer data protection
so when you were writing to the cache
that device failed yeah you would lose
that data but now we actually have a
cache pool so you can take the same
philosophy that we approached with
building the Unrated a and use that to
build a cache full of devices of
different sizes of different types and
can dynamically scale it on demand okay
so that cash pool serves both virtual
machines as well as my fast game content
and then I can dynamically move it from
fast to slow as I choose nice ok so just
back just to kind of clarify and we're
still looking at just your game library
there so that's why the camera is on me
but to clarify what that means basically
when we're storing mass amounts of data
on a none raid array or any kind of Nass
array the cache works as a kind of an
interim step so that it saves to
something faster so you've got that SSD
so that as I'm saving it's gonna do a
really really fast right so then I can
offload that data onto cheaper larger
slower disks all right you'll see this
in hybrid drives even hybrid drives use
this kind of technique so that they've
got a small SSD but then they've got a
large say a terabyte or four terabyte or
eight terabyte drive but because of that
SSD chip that is in the interim it it
really seems to be operating very very
quickly so you've added redundancy to
the cache drive itself which is a
fantastic thing that's honestly what's a
held me back from using a cache drive
specifically because when we're
offloading large amounts of video data
last thing that we want to have is our
cash drive CAC out on us and then write
it lose the data during transit so is
that how is that redundant is that a
rate level one or yeah we use a
technology called butter FS it's a
different type of file system and we use
a raid one format for they're pooling
capability but it's not like a
traditional raid one a traditional raid
one you really only have two devices and
they're essentially a mirror and that's
it and if you want to expand you're
actually going to a different raid type
with a butter FS raid one the idea is
very simple for every block that I need
to write I write it to two different
storage devices that's as simple as I
can put it so if I have three disks I
can actually create a raid one butter FS
pool out of three devices and it will
figure out how much total capacity based
on the ability to split blocks between
those disks so it's not using a parity
disk it's using some other form of so
you're actually getting a larger pool
than if you just had a raid one for
example is that Wow am I following
correctly you're basically getting half
of your total storage capacity because
you're mirroring you are mirroring but
you're able to do it across more than
just two devices and you can dynamically
size it that's another big advantage to
this is that you don't have to define a
raid group where I create you know a
number of devices pair them up they
usually have to be the same size speak
brand protocol that does not happen with
on raid 6 you can mix and match your
devices in the pool just like you can in
the array it doesn't make a difference
very cool all right this is category 5
technology TV we're speaking with John
Panozzo about unraised 6 we've got a big
announcement about on raid 6 coming up
in just a couple minutes time and we've
got a copy of under 8 6 Pro to give away
email contest at category 5 dot TV and
just say hi that's all you need to do
because all we need is your email to
draw you from a hat and next week on the
16th of June we're gonna be making that
draw for you and contact you by email
but you'll want to tune in John I love
the product and excited about the
direction that you're taking what else
can you tell us I mean I I'm thinking
about all the things I'd love to ask you
like when you're talking about butter FS
I'm thinking okay are we you know is our
main data pool still Reaser FS or we
branch in out into other file systems
these are things that I want to know I'm
not sure if they're of interest to the
the
particularly if you have questions make
sure you give us a call 25 45 cat5 TV or
message erica in the chat room we have
great feedback on this unwritten unread
six we have a comment from folks
reluctant trucks reluctant flux my
apologies
so he's saying that unread six finally
offers what I've been waiting for for
over a decade a decade that's the
industry that I came from was was a
world based around virtualization where
you could do more with less and I came
to under eight and saw under eight as a
possibility to bring that value to the
consumer market
that's why Tom Mortenson and myself and
Tom harms and Eric Schultz the entire
team here at lime tech has been really
busting our butt to bring this out to
everybody because we know your box can
do a lot more than you even realize
right and I love the idea of being able
to deprecate seemingly good Hardware on
my on my network as well and put
everything in one place it's gonna save
electricity it's gonna save you know
heating up my house with computers well
yeah let's say you have two devices
right well there's a number of facets
you should think about about those two
devices so number one it's not just
about hey this device is good enough to
stream media to my TV and this device is
good enough to store and protect my data
that's to physical investments that's to
motherboards that's to power supplies to
processors do sets of memory that you
have a whole investment in a system
right well if you can collapse that
together here's the big benefit I as a
gamer right I would be really upset if I
did this and then all of a sudden my
gameplay experience went down as a
result but if I don't have to buy an as
on top of my gaming PC well maybe I do
put a Xeon processor in there and maybe
I take that extra budget and I apply it
to getting a 980 graphics card instead
of the 780 I got well if I take those
extra dollars and I put them into that
compared to what I would have built
individually run the benchmarks next to
each other and that one system even with
less resources will deliver a better
result here's a great way to think about
it the system I'm on has an Intel i7
4790k processor it's an 8 core processor
and I did a bare-metal physical test
against a virtual machine I wanted to
see what would 3d mark which is a pretty
popular benchmarking tool for gaming
what would I score well here's what I
did when I ran bare metal I gave it all
the resources so it had 16 gigs of ram
it had all eight quarters of the
processor to work with and it had that
gtx 780 to work with when i ran it as a
vm though i kind of cut it off at the
knees so i only gave it 8 gigs of ram
instead of 16 and i only let it control
up to 75% of my cpu so i isolated the
course and when I ran the benchmark the
result was only a 3% decline so 3%
overhead and I get a gaming VM on a box
that I can also stream my media from
somebody my wife and daughter can be
downstairs watching Finding Nemo while
I'm upstairs playing games and no one's
the wiser unbelievable I sense where you
were going with that John and the
thought of being able to reduce our how
many things we need to purchase in order
to centralize back to reluctant flux you
know he's basically saying it's a gaming
machine off a vid card a media center
and plus it adds the application
isolation and nask capability exactly
what we're just touching on it thank you
reluctant okay well we've got we've got
a copy to give away make sure you email
us a contest at category 5 TV John I
want to see more there's so much that
you can show us but really I mean what
it comes down to unread has been in on
raid 6 has been in the works for quite
some time there was even a time when you
know things were pretty hot around lime
tech as far as what what was coming out
because you guys were working so hard on
developing the the new UI for the web
interface and everything else that has
gone into this love to hear more about
what is big and upcoming from unread and
also we've got a big announcement which
I'll throw over to you something that
we've all been waiting for people who
have been you know a long time unread
users but for those of you at home this
will affect you as well John I'm gonna
just throw it right over to you all
right well the big announcement is that
we are releasing unread 6 on June 15
so we are six days away from our sorry
6.0 final hitting the streets so if you
want to download today you can it's
currently in release candidate but the
final version should be out on the 15th
you'll be able to get that from our
website at lime - technology comm you
can also go over to cap 5 dot TV slash
unread just a real quick way easy way to
remember it cap five dot TV slash on
raid and make sure now you mentioned
being able to download it is there I
noticed in the promo there's a free
trial what are the three different tiers
for unread and how do those work for us
absolutely so there is a free trial it's
a 30-day trial and after the 30 days if
you need it a little bit more time to
evaluate you can request an extension
it's built right into our web interface
to do that
but the three tiers of on raid 6 are
basic plus and pro and so basic will
support up to six attached storage
devices in your system and philosophers
support up to 12 and pro will support up
to 25 so with 25 disks so we're talking
moderate at 92 terabytes of potential
storage capacity if you use 8 terabyte
drives somebody fills up a system with
that much data I want to see a picture
yeah that's where things are at now and
I guess as the drives get bigger and
bigger then that number goes up and up
as well so it's it's pretty spectacular
yeah this is category 5 technology TV
John was just saying this coming Monday
we're gonna see the full release of
under eight six go get your free trial
now cat5 dot TV slash unread and of
course you can check out the the other
versions they're up to twenty five discs
now i have to ask because it came up in
the in the forum sean is there a
long-term goal here because you know
people are speculating what is the
announcement tonight and and for those
who follow along in the forums i
understand that you know that this is
coming because you've had the release
candidate for some time and and so you
know maybe it's you know well what is it
that we're gonna announce what else is
on the back burner what what is coming
after this I mean you guys talk behind
the scenes and
and I can see the smart can you share
that with me so I'll give you I'll give
you a little hints a couple pins so you
know our primary focus is on three
markets like I think I mentioned at the
beginning which is technology media and
gaming enthusiasts and the first release
of under eight six is really geared
towards the techies so guys that look at
what we're doing and say wow that's
really cool I can get a lot more out of
my investment I can build my own VM
that's the first target but we want to
take this a lot further our end goal
here is to make this more accessible to
a wider audience and that starts by
making things a lot easier so as great
as I think we've done things with docker
and with VMs and making it relatively
easy to create things in our web
interface you know I know there's a good
chunk of folks out there that are still
scratching their head wondering what a
virtual machine is so it'd be much
better if we could make it so that folks
could just download a VM run the VM with
the right hardware and not have to go to
that installation process the
configuration process so those are the
types of things that we want to work on
in the future is delivering that that
full experience out of the box as
opposed to an Ikea experience where
you've got to build it a little bit
yourself so unread as a platform versus
unread as kind of a DIY project it's
smart too I think from a business
perspective and from a planning
perspective to release to the techy the
tech savvy people first because we're
the ones who are going to get into the
forum's I'm sure and and start sharing
what our experiences are maybe even help
with some of the the testing and things
that go into that is there any plan I
know what was on the roadmap some time
ago is there any plan to introduce any
level of dual disc fault tolerance I had
a feeling you might bring this up so you
know when it comes to dual parity there
is something that we'd like to do with
dual parity but it's just not the right
time for us to put that on the roadmap
mainly because we don't know what the
impact is gonna be so we need to do a
little bit more Rd and a little bit more
testing work to make sure that it's not
going to negatively impact any of the
other capabilities of the platform
especially when it comes to performance
but that is something that we would
definitely like to do but there's
considerations for it so I can't confirm
or deny that we're gonna add that at any
point but I can say that it is something
that obviously a large percentage of our
users have expressed interest in and
it's something we're gonna pay close
attention to very good I think these
days - because drives are so large we
can get away with
running less tribes in our array because
the more drives you have and the more
chance you know just ratio lies the more
chance of a drive failure that you have
so I keep my array at about seven drives
and that you know and with four terabyte
drives that gives me more than enough
space to work with so John is there
anything else that you'd like to cover
here tonight before we let you go and
move along with the show I think the one
thing that I'll leave you with is we
talked a lot about gaming and we talked
a lot about tech and we showed you some
apps but one of the things we didn't
really talk a ton about was media and so
we showed plaques but I want to talk
about the flip side of Plex where where
Plex was kind of born from and that's
XBMC now known as Kodi
so I want folks to think about this for
a minute so we showed VMs we showed the
fact that you can do this locally that
you can actually run a VM and get
graphics output to your monitor directly
well what about in your living room so
what about consolidating the
capabilities of an as with a box that
can actually play media content directly
and I want you to think about that
especially in relation to 4k content so
the biggest complaint that I hear from
our users and not just an art form but
in any forum when it comes to media
playback is buffering and the number one
cause of buffering is a network well
what happens when you get rid of the
network because the same device that you
want to use to play your content is the
device that stores your content well
what you get is you get a seamless
playback experience so the same idea of
running Windows to get games and all
sorts of content delivered to your
monitor so you can use on rate is also a
high performance workstation that same
benefit will live in the living room to
deliver a high performance high quality
buffering less media playback experience
for all of our users that's an
interesting point now I and I think
though too with having docker apps you
having the ability to transcode also is
you know supplements that those who need
to have a network because I don't want a
great big box sitting in my living room
actually I do I do my wife my wife would
kill me yeah same here in the early
demos where I had my big giant super
cooler tower living in the living room
for a while as we were doing testing so
yeah I can appreciate the female
perspective as well just as we wrap up
on episode number 103 and now here we
are at episode 453 so you know that many
300 episodes later here we are and John
I'm still running the same on raid
server that I
built on episode number 103 that's how
reliable it has been we've changed out
the motherboard because we burned out
capacitors on the motherboard nothing to
do with on rate at all and I was very
impressed that I was able to take out
the broken motherboard replace it with
one that wasn't even a match completely
different motherboard and unread picked
everything up and booted and I was back
up and running within a couple minutes
we've replaced hard drives we've
expanded our array we've added larger
parity discs so that we could expand to
larger drives because of one point the
largest drive that I had was 750 gigs
now we're up at 4-4 terabyte drives for
it so this whole process from episode
weeks we have constantly grown and I'm
excited to see that now this is a
platform that is not just for the data
storage but also for our virtualization
for docker apps and for our actual being
able to use applications across any
platform it's basically platform
agnostic at this point isn't it yeah and
that's kind of the idea that's why we
wanted to add docker and virtualization
because the same benefits of being able
to uplift your storage devices move them
to new hardware that applies with apps
and VMs as well so we just wanted to
make it easy for folks to be able to
grow their investment over time make
more economical decisions about how they
do parts replacement how they do
upgrades and not be forced into this
world of oh you want to grow a drive ok
we'll buy a whole new set to find a
whole new raid group and manage that and
by the way you can't use any of your old
disks with it at that month that model
just does not work anymore and I
appreciate that so this is the economic
model from that perspective as well
being able just to throw more data more
storage at it and not have to remove any
of the other ones John that's all the
time that we have I so appreciate we
could just sit here for everyone says a
two-hour show there if you have
questions that we have not been able to
get to in aerica I appreciate you
keeping up with the with the chat room
there if your question didn't get
answered please email us live at
category-five TV I promise you I will
pass it along to John also get into
their forums you can find that very help
I going over to that website cat5 dot TV
slash on raid and you'll see the link
for the forums there the community is
wonderful and
very active so we'd encourage you to do
that as well John thank you so much for
being here tonight thanks for having me
Robbie
this is category five technology TV
thanks for joining us and hope you're
having a fun night and that is a
fantastic product I'm so excited and
happy to have had you John on the show
thanks for the call all right we are
like I can't believe how much fun and
time we can spend chatting about
exciting stuff I almost feel bad that
the news has to travel the show I want
can I be in the contest yeah can I be
all right over to the newsroom here is a
chador made us it's Tuesday June 9 2015
and here are the stories were covering
this week for the first time the DARPA
Robotics Challenge was performed with
untethered robots and a South Korean
team took home the 2 million dollar
prize Google Street View technology is
now taking us diving in some of the
Earth's most remote and breathtaking
underwater habitats YouTube is helping
musicians plot their tour locations by
telling them where their fan base is
located and steam machines are on the
horizon and we're not talking about
ironing these stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere
thanks Sasha and we have been talking
about it tonight but if you're watching
the category 5 TV newsroom make sure you
email us contest at category 5 TV we've
got a free copy of unread 6 Pro to
giveaway and that's going to be
happening next week on the 16th we're
gonna be doing that draw and all you
have to do is email contest at category
5 dot TV to qualify if you'd like more
information about unread go to cap 5 dot
TV slash unread back to the newsroom
here is Sasha
I'm Sasha through Madison here are the
top stories from the category 5 TV
newsroom a South Korean robotics team
has won the DARPA Robotics Challenge the
contest is a battle of robots on an
obstacle course meant to
conditions similar to the 2011 Fukushima
nuclear plant disaster team Christ's DRC
HUBO humanoid robot defeated 22 others
to win the top two million dollar prize
from the US Department of Defense's
DARPA Research Unit the robots had an
hour to complete a series of tasks such
as driving a car and walking up steps
not bad to be fair I have trouble doing
those things Wow the challenge was the
first where robots performed semi
autonomously without being tethered and
there were plenty of false soliciting
groans and laughter from spectators of
the contest which was held in California
other tasks the robots had to do
included getting out of a car presumably
the one they were driving opening a door
drilling a hole in a wall turning a
valve and crossing rubble either by
clearing a path or walking over it team
heist was the fastest completing all the
tasks in 44 minutes and 28 seconds you
know the thing that I think is best
about this is they were talking about
the Fukushima disaster yeah there are
still ongoing destruction there those
robots could conceivably be shipped over
there to help with some of the cleanup
of water that's still leaking into the
Pacific because then humans aren't at
risk in the cleanup yeah and I wonder if
during the course of these disasters I
mean I hope beyond hopes that that kind
of thing never happens again but even
simple things like in that simple but
and say a natural disaster for example
being able to go into places that would
be extremely dangerous for humans you
know firefighters and all these kinds of
things that you know could be
supplemented I would say by autonomous
robots that that would be amazing
things like I mean if there is a bomb
threat then it's ending in one of these
robots so that could manipulate a
situation and maybe defuse a bomb or
something it's great I love this yeah
perfectly great using this technology
I'm saying Google has unveiled a
images as part of its latest update as
well as the regular images the new
views let you swim with humpback whales
in the Cook Islands dive off the coast
of Bali and take a beach stroll in Samoa
Google Street View team created the new
pictures alongside the Catlin Seaview
survey the Office of National marine
sanctuaries and the Chicago's
conversation trust the project is part
of the Google out earth outreach which
began creating underwater views in 2012
along with Catlin in order to help
monitor the conditions of some of the
earth's most remote and breathtaking
habitats but they also give us us by
standards and a bystander's an amazing
view of unseen worlds on Google's blog
the company says mapping the ocean is
the key to preserving it each image in
Google Maps is a GPS located digital
record of these underwater and coastal
environments which can be used as a
baseline to monitor change over time so
perfect and fun and I think it's funny
that they call it a street view when
it's underwater because there's no it's
the tech it's the technology yeah I
think what's interesting about it is the
thinking along the lines of a hundred
years from now and even though the
technology would seem quite obsolete and
horrible at that point the fact that
they have that kind of record is that's
what is astounding to me that they've
been able to use the technology just for
that aspect right it's historical record
yeah for environmental and and
scientific reasons but then we benefit
from it because it's also beautiful yeah
so now YouTube's new analytics tool
music insight reveals some surprising
stats about the world's most popular
musicians YouTube tells musicians this
data can help you get a song added to a
radio by showing a programmer how big
your local fan bases it also reveals
that for example ed Sheeran is really
big in the Philippines his videos have
been streams in the country more than
170 million times since September 2014
making it his third biggest market after
the u.s. in the UK I bet you he'll do a
concert there now on the country music
front Blake Shelton and
miranda lambert have been named male and
female vocalist of the year five times
running but their fanbase is almost
entirely restricted to the USA this new
data lets artists see where their videos
are being streamed helping them plot
tours and target their most fervent fans
I wonder whose most popular in Canada no
beaver jokes please that's really cool
because I think YouTube has been a bit
of a black box as far as okay well in I
can see how many people see the videos I
can see generally where they're from but
that they're opening it up to musicians
to be able to see specifics about you
know what markets are really saturated
by their music that's a whole that's
putting a whole new spin on the analytic
data that Google is providing that
YouTube is providing as a musician
myself I think that's pretty great
mm-hmm I think it'll probably save
travel time for who is it Lambert and
Shelton I don't know well Blake host
he's one of the hosts on the voice so
that's probably one of the reasons he's
got so many people in the steam machines
and attempts to bring PC gaming to a
wider audience are available to
pre-order PC makers Alienware and
CyberPower have both announced machines
that will be sent out to buyers in
October
several steam machines will be out this
year an attempt by games publisher valve
to compete with consoles such as the
Xbox and Playstation the new boxes are
going to be pricey though between 450
and 500 dollars u.s. but buyers NEET
will need to wait until November and pay
extra to use valves official steam
machine controller sorry you go I felt
like my playstation I'll tell you now I
have to upgrade for follow
all right a big thanks this week to ROI
W Nash and our community of yours for
submitting stories to us if you found a
new story you'd like to send email it to
newsroom at category five dot TV for all
your tech news with a slight linux
biased visit the category-five TV
newsroom at newsroom dot category-five
TV for the category 5 TV newsroom i'm
sasha dramatis thanks Sasha this is
category 5 technology TV welcome to the
show my name is Robby Ferguson my name
is Eric : as well category 5 TV is a
member of the ted podcast network if
it's tech it's here at cat 5 dot TV
slash TPN and the international
association of the internet broadcasters
at cat 5 TV slash a I ia be a be all
watching tonight for a quick apology
because I promised last week that we
would get to a viewer question this week
that I now realize that we do not have
time to actually cover it in this began
now exactly in the depth it will need
because we only have like three minutes
and your question will need more than
three minutes and your question is so
important to us and your questions are
important to us we appreciate you
sending them an email us live at
category-five dot TV if you've got some
for us and we will definitely make sure
that we do get to that for you
you understand I'm sure but s began do
we appreciate you and thanks for
watching thank you everyone at home and
and as well quick before we go
Sasha brought in her stand oh yes
I'm on my way over here okay so here's
my staff it got shipped in and this is
what it looks like it looks like I wrote
it
yeah okay back she's a tech savvy look
at that that looks so good it looks like
yeah I know looks like I put care into
each letter okay yeah you took your time
little do they know you care into it
whatsoever I put lots of care someone
who has I would I would come visit you
just for that yeah not sure what we're
talking about head on over to our
website category five dot TV and when
you're there hey go down just a little
ways and of course if you're watching
this after the fact you may have to jump
back but in season eight you'll see
episode number three $9.99 creating a
custom stamp with handwriting and we in
fact created that live on the show it's
an actual self inking stamp so that
Sasha can stamp the back of receipts
because you get busy I guess when you're
waitressing a busy night and well yeah
the thing is sometimes tables have like
twenty people come in and I do want to
put a personal message on each of the
back of each receipt no come in for
wings and you'll get a stamp I can't
believe how well that turned out thanks
for bringing that Sasha no problem
thanks for watching tonight it's
category five technology TV and you'll
find us online triple w category five
dot TV don't forget as well to check out
the Conrade cat5 dot TV slash on rate
and yeah as you were saying the contest
contest at category five dot TV that's
all you gotta do send an email including
sure if you want oh and the postcards oh
yeah yes thanks buddy yeah I want to win
that love I love reading new postcards
we have we've actually got premium vinyl
logo stickers of category five TV and
we're gonna include that if you win the
unread as well but we're gonna send
those to the first five people who send
us a postcard at our new address you can
get that from category five dot TV go go
to the bottom of the site you'll see it
there on every page you'll see it on the
contact us page however you want to get
it be one of the first five people to
send us that and we will send you a very
special gift so that's just a local
postcard so we see where you're from
thanks everybody thanks Adam for being
here and Erica Sasha have a great night
everyone it's good to be a part of this
show bye Sasha oh we hope you enjoyed
the show category 5 TV broadcasts live
from Barrie Ontario Canada every Tuesday
at 7 p.m. Eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category-five
TV and find out when you can watch live
and interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
Creative Commons Attribution 2.5 Canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
