welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode 512 for Wednesday the
12th of July 2017 hex Accords has done
something incredible they have created
an artificial intelligence music
composing system so cool
it has a lot of potential folks for TV
broadcast movies and video games we're
going to be speaking with the CEO
responsible for this technology in just
a couple of moments time make sure you
stick around here's what's coming up in
the category 5 TV newsroom jawbone is
shutting down to pursue medical text the
world's first glasses-free holographic
phone is coming and you'll never guess
who's releasing it there's now
self-driving transport wrecked it
doesn't even have a spot for human
drivers disappointed as intel plans to
cut jobs from its iot divisions a german
computer company is spinning a new
version of ubuntu to include on their
computers and update your linux distro
immediately the new PG crypto library
has been cracked stick around the flow
details are coming up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV our
live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in live every week on roku
cody and other HLS video players for
local show times visit our website
category 5 TV category 5 TV is a member
of the tech podcast network if it's tech
is here cat 5 TV slash TPN and the
International Association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 TV flash ia IB
welcome to show everyone I'm Robby
Ferguson
I'm Sasha Derrida and I just watched it
see how they just respond to the cues
just like that just like that tonight
we've got a fantastic show planned for
you really excited about this as a
former music producer in my past life
used to do a lot of music you remember
the days I do yes
soyal boy and it was so onerous it was
so much work to just put together as a
score yes well hexa cards has built a
tool that uses artificial intelligence
in order to compose music so cool
tonight we have Richard port Ellie is
the CEO of hexa cards Richard nice to
have you here thanks for joining us
tonight thanks my pleasure can you tell
us a little bit about how hexa cards got
started what really brought about this
entire movement that you've got that you
guys have been creating yes basically I
started the hata cords on my own it was
like five years ago and I had this the
idea when I was at like when I was
studying physics and engineering it
might add my school and the main idea of
or composer is to design a tool for
composers which basically allow
composers to create music a lot faster
and to try new musical ideas very
quickly and then they can decide which
ideas they want to explore further and I
had this idea because by listening a lot
of music I came to the conclusion that a
lot of songs look very similar and
instead of spending time on so I mean
what is like all times the same like
Austin same chords cetera it's better to
use the time on creativity sure okay so
you think about how music is composed
and it always works out to be a chord
structure where you know it's going to
be g d c g DC and then maybe an E minor
if we want to get really funky with it
so your artificial intelligence now
takes that kind of knowledge and turns
it into music so it's called orb
composer and can you tell us a little
bit about how it works what's kind of
the process that a composer would use in
order to create
position using your technology yet sure
I'm basically up composer I mean the
compressor needs to make a lot of
musical choices to have a score in the
end and we try to design a kind of high
level interface all right where the
composer can choose like chords chord
progressions reasons Momentum's you can
choose all the instruments you want
let's say for example from bar to the
flutes will come etc all this stuff I
mean the composer has access to all this
stuff and it's the start of the
composition starts by making like very
artistic choices B and before diving
into the notes okay so now in the past
we've looked at audio tool we've looked
at FL Studio producer and tools like
that where we need to learn an interface
like a piano roll and we need to know
basic chord structure so that we can so
that we can basically play on a computer
screen the notes that we want to hear
and then we've got to create okay we
want a temp and swell we want an oboe to
come in at this point now we have to
kind of put those in as dot so how does
you know thinking of that it's a very
difficult and very time-consuming
process
how does orb composer compare to that
process when I sit down and say okay
I've got my cup of coffee I'm ready to
start composing music what's the process
feel like for me yeah that is exactly
the point the point of composer
basically you start from ideas and it
creates notes and for example it's like
it's like clothes you only when you want
to try a new shirt basically you need
all the other like pants and shoes to
have an idea exactly how it would sound
you cannot just like to expect to
explore musical idea is very time
consuming and basically what our
composer allows to do a
like from simple choices and artistic
choices to have like a solid base to
start with it's not like the final score
will not be composed 100% without
computer but you start with a very solid
base which saves you a lot of time for
the rest so do I need to have musical
capabilities and knowledge in order to
use or composer yeah it definitely
designed for music composers I see okay
that's good so so we're looking at not
something that would replace the
composer but something that would assist
the composer with creativity with
artistic freedom and and you know it's
like it's like writing a story you sit
down day after day and compose music and
you get writer's block and and that you
know when you've got eight songs for a
CD and you're trying to get the tenth
and the night that's the difficult thing
to get through so is the music creation
so this creates the base for our songs
is it random is there is it what I would
come up with what's kind of the
creativity behind that aspect
yeah well it's it's random of it of
course is based on the choices of the
composer but and the random can you tell
me what when you say choices are we
talking I have chosen to compose a song
in the key of E and I you know I want
these instruments I want this genre is
that are those the kind of choices that
I make her am I actually keying in
certain notes and things like that
well actually like two levels of
randomness the first run the first
random part comes from the choices when
I mean choices I mean like for example
like chords just chords or like if you
take this much much called a number
different course it's huge and when you
talk about corporations like Momentum's
yeah like the instrument they say okay
at the fruits which come at bar to this
is like a choice which certainly will be
unique so all this is the first hour
randomness but the second randomness
comes from the technology itself which
basically means that if even if you have
exactly the same constraint and you make
exactly the same choices you will still
have in the end different nodes okay so
so you're just going to come up with new
so I can put in the same key structure
the same chord structure I think I get
brand-new music so what kind of genres
does or composer do and do well well
basically for further is mostly focused
on orchestral music but we want to I
mean it's possible to create any Jean
but will not have like presets Jean
presses but the user will be able for
example to to that orchestral
instruments or with like electric
guitars anything basically because we
also want our controller to be used for
example to create new music styles wow
that's cool and if you think that
everything has been done before but
truly we start to hear I I noticed that
when dubstep became a thing well it's
like how did someone invent a genre when
everything feels like it's been done
before so we think that or composer is
going to be able to achieve this that's
an exciting and you know bar to set for
yourself for sure yes so understanding
then Richard that we do require some
musical experience and capabilities in
order to use orb composer so it's not
taking over the job of the composer by
any stretch is this something that
composers need to to fear in the sense
that studios are going to be able to use
less experienced composers in order to
create their music well I think with the
approach we have I think basically we
are supporting composers and I think
tools which we don't like and already
like automated tools like create a music
in two seconds and also stuff like this
and it's definitely not the direction we
want you to take and we believe that
with our tool composers will be
we have will compose much better music
than just like automated tools
well you just select like a jean or and
the duration for example right yeah I
remember my old mad player that was you
just push play and it would just start
randomizing a beat and everything else
and you know it's cool that it did have
that kind of random feel to it as
opposed to something that really has
some thought put into it with orb
composer then is it a time-consuming
process you know I think about AI as
being a fully automated process but then
learning that we do need to actually do
some some interaction with the AI in
order to bring out the composition what
could we look at as far as time goes for
composing a track with with orb composer
well the time is uh I mean the time to
compose the song is like it's instant
but of course the time depends on the
time the composer spends to make the
choices okay so it instantly spews out a
song and says here you go and then
exactly and now what happens do I then
say okay well I don't like how this
happened I want to change the flute part
yes yes exactly you can say okay I don't
want like the bassoon here I want to
change it by I don't know like a bass
trombone I don't know and and then you
say okay this this motif I don't like it
so I will just change this part etc and
then when you make all your choices and
you have really something accurate that
you like you can for example finish the
composition in your DW and adds all the
effects you want cetera but yeah that's
basically how it works fantastic we're
speaking with richard port le he's the
CEO of hex accords they've developed an
artificial intelligence software called
orb composer and it actually creates
musical scores for composers inspiring
creativity and helping them to be able
to find that inspiration richard i'm you
know as a former music producer using FL
studio and things like that back in the
days of fruity loops as far you know
that's as far back as i go do we have
support for third-party instrument
libraries say
vsti soundfont DirectX plugins is there
support for those kinds of things so
that I don't lose my investment I've got
adderall orchestral I love it can i plug
it into your orbit camp oh yeah of
course you can and I would say that you
have to you have to because the old
computer doesn't come with like any
sound itself it's basically connected
via MIDI devices to your dhw so you can
load you can use your all your samples
and that's also something we wanted to
achieve because people they spend a lot
of money by buying purchasing so an
example so they can use all the samples
they bought and that's pretty cool I
think yeah that's a starting like I like
I mentioned at all I have the orchestral
plugin I absolutely love it I've done
grand piano scores on and everything I'd
hate to lose that plug-in now I'm just
wondering does it also have the ability
to integrate into like a soundboard or
is it purely computer-based as far as
channels and whatnot yeah it's purely
computer-based okay so it would it
support let's say I have a DA all ready
that has outputs to a console with
multiple inputs so a pre setup studio
configuration is it going to be
compatible with that I think that's kind
of you know the question though can I
can I work with an existing da yes
yes you can well okay so in that case
then yeah yeah we would be able to to
utilize that is it a standalone
application or are we looking at needing
to have something like FL Studio to
power it well it's a standalone
application but you need to connect it
to a dled volume but yeah it's a
standard application but you need like a
DW so it's like it but it's not a
plug-in it's not a VST it's like a
standalone application but you need a JW
to to be to use it with always all the
features so as it's not a plug-in now we
don't need to get into the technical
aspects but this is not a plug-in I'm
not I'm not getting the the relationship
to the DA w or da is it it does this
export
to a certain file format that I then
import into my existing hardware's yes I
mean it could work without the aw you
could export um you could export the
MIDI files but I think it would be like
useless because you would not have like
any playback on the choices you make and
so right yeah if you yeah you can't hear
before so you need to export to load
into the DW to listen etc so it will be
like quite a good percent thing you
mentioned something there really you
know stands out to me you mentioned
exporting to MIDI files which means I'm
gonna be able to import that into any
application that I work with MIDI files
or I can change the instrumentation I
can also create sheet music right from
my MIDI files things like that so it
just opens it up just blows that right
out of the water doesn't that so who
owns the music that I create with your
software do I have to worry about
royalties if I use the music online in
another talk I mean the music critique
belongs to the composer and entirely
entirety yeah entirely because basically
if there are no like royalties anything
for example I mean there is no write on
the music itself if it's created from A
to Z by a computer but in this case it's
a tool to assist the composer so the
comfort of course is I mean of the music
created definitely belongs to the
composer first of all you know and just
to say kudos for making that decision to
take that approach because there are
different approaches that you could have
taken here you could have said okay we
own the rights to this music and you
need to pay for the rights to use it or
you can say this is in all essences and
instrument and you're playing the
instrument and it's you and you're
creating the music and so with yours so
now I can use this music as as Richard
is telling us here I can use this in any
of my projects I I suppose I can sell it
I can yelled amuse course yeah of course
so is it okay for me to generate music
using the artificial intelligence and
then sell it as like stock audio yes
it's possible I think we will try to
limit that because it's not the idea
like of making that millions of tracks
and they're selling them so we'll
definitely find a way to limit this but
yeah I mean on the paper it's possible
but if it is not the idea if I
understand you can see where I'm kind of
going with it where yeah and you know
this this is a potential abuse of the
artificial intelligence but at the same
time could be a really interesting
business model for somebody if they you
know if they want to take the time and
do a really good job of it not that
that's what we're promoting but
understanding that that's possible I
love that I own the rights to it that's
fantastic
are the files themselves proprietary can
I like these are these WAV files that
it's exporting to how do I mean the
other way sides are exported by the GIW
so yeah I mean so the MIDI aspect the
the actual instrumentation the the
synthesis happens in the D aw yes gotcha
if you think with your samples yeah
perfect now regarding the AI do does it
learn your style the type of music that
you'd like to make and then start
developing upon that or is the AI
strictly perso based on the input that
you put forward like that does it
continue to learn from your style well I
mean there are two part of the AI there
is one part which is learning that we
it's based on machine learning that we
use it's mostly for music styles but I
mean the real engine orb is not based on
learning instead it's basically on the
very accurate rules
we gave it and because it is very light
it's instant but if it was like from 50
machine learning late it would not be
instant and you also you have the full
control of what's happening inside the
box because nation learning is like it's
like a black box you give inputs you out
and out you have an output but you don't
have the control on what's happening
between and basically with our composure
you have complete access to everything
to also the musical low-level parameters
and frankly if you just want to adjust
one setting you can do it which would
not be possible with machine learning
okay now we have a question from the
chat room let's do USB synthesizers work
with your software I suppose if they're
MIDI compatible would that be yeah
exactly yeah you can yes you can if you
connect via di W and you have like a
synthesizer yeah it should work of
course okay very cool so you can use all
your analog stuff and yeah so again if
you've already got kit you've got
plugins you've got all this stuff
already set up this is just going to
accent that absolutely which is not
honestly Richard not exactly what I was
expecting I was expecting this to be its
own standalone thing and this impresses
me excites me we're talking about orb
Composer it's an artificial intelligence
product that has been created by hex
accords and it helps composers to create
music what are some of the exciting ways
that you're seeing this already being
used now I know it's not publicly
available but there there's there has
been some use within television I I
believe yet actually there was no use of
orb composer there was the use of orb
I mean orbs its core technology and
before before designing of composites so
with all the graphical interface and so
ok and so we we just released some music
created with orb by itself so it's it's
really like it's a different approach
now that we have opted composer but
basically it's a music we released
before what's completely done by di
from A to Z and because because of that
we didn't really like too many music
because we don't think it's too
interesting however to make that kind of
a proof of concept and to see how people
react to something created really from a
to that biotechnology it was it was nice
yet to to to propose I mean to put the
music created with urban itself with
another music created with real
composers and to see if some people will
say okay no for this we can't use this
music for some reason I don't like this
music and that was not the case because
yes as soon as you mentioned it was
using a document or your professional
documentary on French TV and yeah and it
nobody knows that it was created only by
our technology so you've taken this song
that was created by your tackk put it on
to some kind of forum er or system that
allows each other forum it's basically
like what what what else are called like
sound libraries so basically it's like
it's a company called tell a music it's
a French company basically they have a
bunch of composers who compose music for
TV and so it has you to our documentary
it has to choose the music and so it is
indeed a like little mix of like little
bit of that that draw in terms of that
John and EJ's yes it proposed this music
saying that okay it was it was composed
by a composer which was not the case but
just time see the reaction and
eventually it was chosen for for an
extra year and so today later find out
that it was actually created by an
artificial intelligence to be fair I'm
not sure they're using this music in
their documentary they don't even know
potentially we're talking about it here
that's amazing I don't think that I
don't think they know it to be fair that
is astonishing
and just I think that it's that good
we've had some music underlying the
interview of times here all created by
the or artificial intelligence now you
mentioned a differentiation that
wasn't aware of between orb and the orb
composure so orb is I guess like a
framework kind of back-end artificial
intelligence engine is that the idea yes
exactly I mean well I mean yes orb is
really the core engine and it can work
by itself saying okay it's possible say
okay I want like a two-minute song
Orchestra a peak and all that stuff yeah
it's possible
so as we don't want to use it that way
you don't want to can I can I write a
script that will use it though is that
possible is it an API or command-line
argument or something well it would be
possible it will not provide it okay I
got you all right that's that's
proprietary we'll say speaking of
proprietary what kind of oh s support
are we looking at is this like a Windows
only kind of thing
well it's moving to Windows and Mac
Windows and Mac any plans yet Linux
support at all fully Nix you mean yes
any plans to support over the Linux well
it will be complicated because like for
for I mean the core it doesn't change
anything to the core code but it's more
like the use of d8w and like plugins
which are quite rare on linux yeah here
yeah here you so we're probably going to
be on Windows or Mac anyways in the
studio so it makes make sense for sure
any any other system requirements that
we should be aware of before we before
we wrap up no I mean the only on
restricting part is maybe the memory
because you need just you need to have
the memory that you need for your own
samples so which is usually the case
yeah cause your own samples sure but yes
I mean it's kind of memory intensive of
course you when you load like a bunch of
orchestral stuff yeah it can be I mean
it can be heavier hopefully so like what
it's not CPU intensive at all so I mean
the only requirement yet is to to be
able to load on the the sound Ivory's
okay okay definitely one more yeah I've
got one more question just as I've been
listening to you and and you know you're
talking about the software I mean I
haven't played with the software so I
don't know all I want to know all the
selections that come with it but do you
have the ability to set an emotional
feel to the music
and is not incorporated like if you want
something that invokes anger within the
composition can you set the software to
do that or do you use that through your
individual selections well we could do
we could do that but we don't want to
this same reason as basically we want
people to be able to create some moods
and we don't want to have like we want
people to try new things and basically
if for example if you want to be like to
have like an angry mood the composer
knows what to do and all the parameters
you have to choose to have this effect
right so if it's really like a low-level
kind of software okay and which it's not
like you selectors on with the duration
or the stuff to be very clear and yes
you will it's it how how we want it to
be used all right and we're working
entirely from the screenshots that we've
shown here we're working entirely from
from trying to understand get our head
around something is a brand new
artificial intelligence creating music
that's what we're talking about with orb
composer so for us to get out you've
been playing with this thing for five
years not only be there like you know
your way around this thing I want to
play with it but when can I install this
on my computer so basically we plan to
do like a better version which will be I
think available like in October and for
final release in January
wonderful so we're looking at like a
just a few months yeah yes I'll see you
- until the release yes fantastic like
an early Christmas present exactly yeah
Richard we appreciate your time so very
much tonight we're very very excited
about your product we love what you're
doing with with hexa cords and with with
orb in particular this is really really
cool stuff and the compositions that
you've sent us so far are awesome like
it's just
thank you very much rather than using
this is automated and artificial
intelligence where's it going to go next
what's you know this is just kind of the
start of something cool what's what's
next for
company where are you pitching this what
is going on well we have a very big
project that we would like to that it is
a little bit early to share it but
basically the idea would be to integrate
the technology inside video games I
would mean which would mean that the
music will be would be created inside
the game oh my god and not outside the
game so yes it's just a little thing we
have some we did some proof of concept
of it but it's a bit early to - to tell
you more about it first of all he starts
by saying we've got this big thing but
we're not allowed to tell you about it
but we'll tell you this that is in game
you mentioned that you are going to be
doing gaming audio but this is huge so
huge if I if I'm coming up to a
frightening scene within the game I'd
imagine that orb is going to know I know
you're not allowed to talk more if you
like me after I'd like 500 times trying
to fight a boss you wanna do - that's
awesome and it way - way to get us
excited way to get us exercise that's
cool so you guys you folks get your head
around that
so imagine it creates the music on the
fly during the game it can be influenced
by the gameplay I'm imagining how the
API is going to function yeah exactly
that's exactly how it would work and the
very interesting part as well is that
the the composer would have a major
influence on because he will not need to
compose like final scores but to to
design all the universe also musical
universe for example saying okay it's
for fuzzy in this forest I will give
like okay it will be played by clarinet
and with some arpeggios and to choose
all the parameters but then it will be
life a real time so it's very
interesting yet when I enter here that
you know this is a scary scene we've got
some pizzicatos
exactly yeah not the notes but just like
this all the all the thermometers a bit
like in or comforter it's as if it
becomes part of the level creation
process so we say okay this bill yet is
going to have this style of music now
let orb do the rest yes exactly and so
it will basically put the composer kind
of at the center of all the gameplay Wow
I think I've had a stupid like grin
gaping mouth and last like 90 seconds
this is incredible
thousands of people right now have that
same expression yeah Richard I want to
challenge you to please please please
keep in touch with us let us know we
want to let our community know and the
progress of your product and how it's
being utilized by there and we wish you
all the best thank you so much for thank
you very much thanks for having me
thanks thanks together
[Applause]
[Music]
Kevin say okay
this one is 100% composed by a line
category-five technology TV and you'll
find our website at category five dot TV
Sasha we've got to head over to the
newsroom so if you're all set I'm ready
to rock what do you have for us today
here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
jawbone is shutting down to pursue
medical tech the world's first
glasses-free holographic phone is coming
and you'll never guess who's releasing
it there's now a self-driving transport
truck that doesn't even have a spot for
a human driver disappointment as Intel
plans to cut jobs from its IOT division
a German computer company is spinning a
new version of Ubuntu to include on
their computers and update your Linux
distro immediately the new PG crypto
library has been cracked these stories
are coming right up
don't go anywhere Geoff Weston Jemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what
are you alright you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play I
don't know where Isaac you're supposed
to act okay fair enough I don't mean
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website you need
hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the roof of your own calm
guys to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a WordPress
site fine sign up cat5 dot TV slash
dream host still ahead of a paper son
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're going to
find five dollars and change per month
put a cap five dot TV / dream host I'm
statutory a token here are the top
stories for the week of July 12 2007
themes in May of last year's speaker and
fitness tracker company jawbone and in
production of its fitness trackers and
started seeking a buyer for a speaker
business leading to speculation that the
company was going out of business
jawbone denied claims that it was
shutting down a plan to pivot to medical
products for direct sale to clinical
practitioners but that may not have
panned out as the information reports
that the business is officially shutting
down jawbone has reportedly started
liquidation proceedings and notices have
been sent out to its creditors jawbone
co-founder and CEO Hussein Raman has
moved on to a new company called jawbone
health hub that is designed to make
health related hardware and software
services many existing jawbone employees
have already transitioned to the new
company jawbone health will reportedly
service existing Javal products which
may allow existing jawbone
customers to get help with their devices
jawbone has been ignoring customer
service requests for several months
making customers unhappy
starting in January Javal and customers
were unable to contact jawbone support
and it did not receive responses to
service requests for faulty products
that's unfortunate especially because I
thought about jawbone when I use ister
yeah I I liked it I liked it that makes
me a little sad in that they were one of
our early partners on the show
jawbone was you know one of our first
big sponsors and we loved working with
them so so I'm sorry to see them go
if they're going into a medical field
who knows what will develop from there
but I don't know that they would
liquidate their company if they were
planning to continue supporting it
really what did you say that they were
looking to use existing products they're
liquidating the company they're
liquidating okay maybe maybe I misheard
you so I mean you can buy something and
it just won't be supported like right I
love their Bluetooth headsets but oh
they were the best yeah yeah you know
the one thing that I thought was
interesting is their name is Java
they're going to health it almost sounds
like there should be a dental company
that's right it stems from their
original headsets that's right with a
little round and a standard microphone
which picks up all the noise around you
when you're biking or doing right
exactly
it came in contact with your jawbone and
would sense the vibrations so as you're
talking forget it gets rid of all the
background noise and I came this close
after you after I just I bought a
Bluetooth headset for my for biking and
my sister couldn't hear me said all I
can hear is Wayne microphones it's a
microphone and then you attack well what
about a jawbone and I came very close to
being okay fine a javo and all by one
and now this story yeah we can still buy
one it'll still work Yeah right it's
just you know if it breaks you can't
revive too at home there's no warranty
or whatever right right true
read the company that makes for
professional digital cameras for
shooting Hollywood movies is making a
holographic phone called the hydrogen
the company is touting the hydrogen is
the world's first holographic media
machine and says it doesn't require
glasses to see the suppose at Holograms
the 5.7 inch phone runs Android and
pre-orders are available in two tiers it
costs one thousand five hundred ninety
five dollars for the titanium high-end
version and one thousand one hundred and
ninety five dollars for the aluminum
slightly lower end version the phone is
planned to ship in the first quarter of
2018 according to Reds announcement a
hydrogen has a professional hydrogen
holographic display which seamlessly
switches between traditional 2d content
3d content and interactive games the
screen is according to the company
capable of displaying holographic red
hydrogen for view contents h4v
stereo 3d content and 2d 3d VR AR which
is augmented reality and mr which is
mixed reality high quality audio is
another feature to drool over with a
special algorithm that report that can
reportedly convert stereo sound into 5.1
surround sound like the company's
modular cinema cameras the hydrogen is
all about attaching accessories you can
attach camera extras like future
attachments for shooting higher-quality
motion and still images as well as
hydrogen format holographic images the
caveat these accessories won't ship at
launch
additionally the hydrogen can be
connected to the company's scarlet epic
and weapon cameras as separate control
input and camera monitor and that's
basically it we have no idea what
processor it has or how much storage or
RAM or anything else about the camera
the teaser image clearly shows a
headphone jack USB C port and a rather
big and serious looking camera
protruding out of the backside Reds
website says it'll have a micro SD card
slot
so holographic guys that is not that is
the best I hate that I take so many
pictures with my phone and now red comes
out with a camera phone Holograms
imagine how much data that's going to
take up oh yeah it's got to have massive
storage but you consider red is like the
company that all the big movie makers
use yeah like these are high high-end
cameras you're talking base model
$30,000 like nuts really that's not
actually even though that the price
point seems a little bit steep it's
actually not that much money to have a
holographic phone camera right under
that leading edge a new tack the yeah if
it happened before September 9th then
people could just watch me in real life
get married there you go okay I just be
a hologram you just have to get one in
time so that they can know what I like
about the photo and I mean I don't know
if you can throw it down on the screen
to you that body looks rugged it looks
like what - like you know and just you
said it was titanium yeah Wow titanium
okay that's a that's a really shiny
plastic but you know like it looks like
a solid solid phone I don't know maybe
that's just designed to make it look
cool but I thought what I mean even you
can see the hexagon screws in there for
the body it's like man this thing is
just going to withstand everything
that's a conversation starter if you
walked around with that phone in your
hand you would be the man the boss
you're driving a Hummer
[Laughter]
you know what going to be interesting
about this though keep doing this to me
I know I'm sorry because I keep on
thoughts this is going to now change the
way that we do social media as well sure
because you're going to have like say
for instance Facebook you're going to
want to upload holographic images to
Facebook how is this going to factor in
like this is going to take the tech
industry and social media and everything
to a whole new level because it's going
to force change and what rolls out
because of this you'll never miss a
major life event ever again and picture
the people's meals will be incredible
my chicken you wish floating about that
time you went to that Wow
most experts believe the first industry
to be upended by autonomous driving will
be the trucking sector what better use
case for driverless technology than
long-haul trucking where most of the
driving is confined to the highway the
Swedish startup on an ride certainly
buys into this vision it recently
unveiled a prototype of a self-driving
truck that completely lacks the steering
wheel pedals a windshield and well the
whole cab really the all-electric T pod
is much shorter than your average
traditional tractor-trailer clocking in
at just 23 feet long which is likely due
to the absence of the cabin I ride says
that the tpod will weigh 20 tons at full
load which is comparable to a class 8
truck the company says that the tpod can
be controlled remotely by a human
operator or can operate autonomously
without human intervention and ride says
that it aims to deliver a complete
transport system between Gothenburg - hi
hi Olson borg by 2020 this transport
system will involve 200 T pods with
associated charging stations on the
route the system's first route will have
a capacity of up to 2 million pallets
per year the full-scale product
prototype was on hand last week at a
week-long Swedish political event which
took place on the island of Gotland that
is really great for everyone except for
perhaps long-haul truckers but I will
say working in the chiropractic industry
they really suffer because of their jobs
well sure so if they could find a
healthier profession and somebody else
can do that back-breaking literally job
that would be perfect so yeah and I'm
thinking of you know if they roll this
out into other countries like take for
instance the issues that we're starting
to hear about with you know the sensors
where it's you know maybe not able to
pick up light or something or you've got
animals on the road how is this going to
affect insurance liability if
shocker what happens if your truck goes
off the road and all of that product is
lost where does that play into it you
know there there's things that
definitely come with it but very very
interesting me day I could see a fleet
of this kind of thing Yeah right like
and then where does it end like trains
would be next I guess and yeah like it
just makes sense because it because you
think about like a long-haul driver is
really driving in a straight line for
hours and hours at the same speed in a
lot of cases unless you hit traffic but
away from family and yeah but you're
just you just driving yeah you know it's
not like you're in and out of traffic no
you're pretty much just driving in the
straight line there isn't somebody at
the border control you know between
countries and truck rolls up and I you
see papers please
okay they down at also scan a barcode
and the papers upload or something yeah
yeah it makes me wonder if it's to be
you know only local shipping within a
confined country unless you've got open
borders like you would have in the EU
right
interesting interesting in Newton Intel
is shedding nearly one hundred and forty
staff from its Internet of Things
business lines the layoffs were probably
inevitable since during June until
discontinued three of its IOT product
lines the Jule Edison and Galileo
compute compute modules and boards those
three boards were once the flagships for
chip villas pitch to the wearable and
maker markets the Silicon Valley
Business Journal says 100 of the layoffs
will be in Santa Clara another 40 staff
will be cut in the company's office in
Lex lip Ireland the IOT division turn
turned in 721 million dollars u.s. in
the first quarter revenue this year up
to 11 percent year-on-year but that's
but overall that's less than five
percent of Intel sales until employs
roughly one hundred and six thousand
worldwide
so it's interesting to hear of tech jobs
like Internet of Things you think that's
huge you think that's big right and then
now they're cutting jobs yeah I don't
know what the reasoning behind it is
that it's certainly if it's such a small
portion of your business maybe you're in
the wrong you know focusing assets and
things into the wrong place right but
see when I hear this story I'm wondering
if you what's the undercurrent because
it was a hundred and some odd jobs you
said yeah 40 140 jobs but their revenue
is up 11% year-over-year so the revenues
going up they're getting rid of jobs so
that tells me that it's some sort of
amalgamation either of roles or an
updated technology that has made some
jobs obsolete that would be my guess
robots it could be robots you know
they've laid off Sasha's grandma for
making food in the kitchen and I got the
kitchen robot in every room I don't like
a she thing my grandmother would be
great at before she died she was able to
like save her recipes like I've heard
this before you have yeah but no it's
just what you see when you when you when
you go through the story that's what it
sounds like to me is this is
amalgamation in order to save profits I
mean not minimizing it's 140 people it's
it's not like you know laying off 50% of
the company to save cost measures it
resounds like you know hey we've you
know made some improvements
so what should make investors happy
that's transpose so tuxedo a German
computer company selling a range of
Linux laptops has announced it is
launching its own a boon to based Linux
distro we've done our best with Google
Translate and in their announcement they
say we have been working on this project
for several months we have been thinking
about the usability of the desktop have
included user feedback in our
considerations and made some surveys on
desktop usage the computer outfit plans
to ship an in-house expo to spin
pre-installed on its devices this that
spin is called somewhat confusingly
tuxedo Expo to the room to Xubuntu as
tuxedos ubuntu 16.04 LTS they say
what we have done is deliver a desktop
that is strongly adapted to the needs of
our users with our own theme own icons
own boot logo and the latest firmware
the latest in video drivers if necessary
and Linux kernel 4.11 pre-installed Wow
yeah not to mention our configuration
adjustments on grub and optimizations to
other system relevant files this
modified image is said to deliver a much
lower memory usage lower even than a
boon to matei and improved battery life
hard to imagine but the company tested
its infinite ebook Pro 13 with Linux
Mint 18.1 which gave a battery life of
66 hours and its Xubuntu fork which saw
the Ultrabook lasts almost twice as long
clocking up nearly 12 hours that's
unreal that is crazy I just want to say
this is one of the things that I love
about Linux now tuxedo aside you know
because some people say oh it's there
they're using Xubuntu and they're making
changes and they're making claims and
that's always the case whenever anyone
does a spin right but fact is they can
take the operating system spin it for
their own branding do changes to it and
prove it for those who aren't aware of
what Sasha's saying there this is pretty
bleeding-edge like they've got the brand
new cutting-edge kernel in there like
yeah and so you know it's it's pretty
up-to-date as far as that goes but I
love that Linux and Linux users can do
that you take it make it their own and
then customize it and distribute it and
share it and really all they're doing is
improving exposure to desktop Linux
yes it is true which that's a win so
good on them exactly we would now Linux
users need to check out their
distributions to see if a nasty bug in
live decrypt 20 has been patched the
software fix which has landed in Debian
and Ubuntu addresses a side channel
attack published last week the
researchers published their work at the
International associate
for Cryptologic researches eprint
archive last week what they found is
that the live decrypt library uses
what's called sliding windows a method
for carrying out the mathematics of
cryptic cryptography but that's but one
that's known to leak data the
researchers looked at the left-to-right
sliding window calculation in Lib G
crypt in which the sliding window data
was leaked leak was tolerated because it
was believed only part of the key was
recoverable what they found was an
unpleasant surprise a complete break in
the library's RSA 1024 they say we show
for the first time that the direction of
the encoding matters
the pattern of squarings and
multiplications in left-to-right sliding
windows leaked significantly more
information about the exponent than
right-to-left the fix can be added to
either Debian or Boone - as well as
potentially other distros by running an
upgrade on the lift G crypt 20 package
so make sure that you know what just to
be safe
apt upgrade date and then apt upgrade
and just you know for good measure apt
dist - upgrade that will update all your
packages and everything and that way you
know you're safe you don't want to have
something like a like a cryptography
exploit run wild in your system thanks
for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha tomatoes thanks Ashley this is
category 5 technology TV welcome to the
show so nice to have you here I we've
been having a lot of fun tonight lot of
exciting stuff speaking with our friend
Richard and and everything else that's
been going on but we do have a ton of
questions that have come in so you know
we don't always get as much time as I'd
love to have to just address your
questions I think it's probably time
that we do like a question extravaganza
love those episodes I think it's time
so we're going to find a week coming up
where we can just commit the entire hour
to you to your questions and so you know
if you've got questions it'd have been
on the edge of your fingers get on to
email send us an email live at
category-five TV or join us on our forum
it's simply forum dot category-five dot
TV and you can post there as well so you
have anything for me today I do I have a
question from mickey hey mickey mickey
asked i have an old IBM r32 laptop 2
gigahertz 32-bit processor with a 100
bite of RAM if I put Debian 9 stretch on
it will I be able to watch Netflix or
Hulu on it
I really miss sitting on my patio having
a cigar and watching programs online
I'll say it sounds nice
well then yeah Debian 9 okay we talked
about it when on fo5 time when we talked
about Debian was it 5 10 I can't recall
the number forget the numbers just look
for Debian on our website when we
introduced Debian stretch it is in its
at its essence a distro that uses free
open-source firmwares drivers out of the
box we can enable the ability to do
other words otherwise as we discussed on
that show but we didn't touch on this so
I appreciate the question
I've got Debian 9 from that you know
from that show and it's pretty vanilla I
haven't really done anything with it so
we're just going to bring up Firefox and
I'm going to give it a go for you so I'm
gonna head over to Netflix
Oh Netflix onestly I love Netflix I
didn't tell you but I was watching black
mirror again Oh glad you're not binge
Watchers like we don't do that although
we found even the closest thing we've
ever done to binging we found oh come on
it's on the tip of my tongue
Legion I'd never seen a superhero show
that we actually liked like we wanted to
like in a flash Matt wanted to but it
was just
so I just won't go there I will tell you
we binge watched Bates Motel yeah and
then we bought all of the old psycho
movies because it's based on that right
oh you bought what we bought Netflix we
watch the Bates hotel right then we
bought the cycle movies because I had
never seen them because y'all know I'm
kind of uncultured and things like that
right um have you seen those movies
never even heard Oh psycho psycho we're
not into the horror John yeah well never
happened I'm not either returns oh but
I'm gonna watch now I'm gonna muscle
through it okay all right that um yeah
pink I had well I mentioned that we
watched Dark Mirror the other night and
we're not binge Watchers but Legion was
good yeah Legion was very very good for
that kind of superhero movie show but
that's beside the point on dark matter
no black mirror black mirror I get those
two confused all that black mirror the
episode was reminded me exactly of your
news story from like two years ago I
don't know if you remember this but they
used artificial intelligence to bring
back the dead yes I know what you're
talking about I know the new story
rather than a story yes because I think
I like getting there it was like this is
real this actually talked about this yes
and they made a show about it so they
took the idea the concept of this
artificial intelligence that takes all
your social media Facebook Twitter
everything compiled it all into an AI
and then turns it into a chatbot it's a
good episode it was a very good effort
you it's cracking your people
it's Hartford it's hard for me to
recommend black mirror because there are
some it's not there are some where I fit
there are none
there are you not well no it's a they're
all start with a good thinking one it
was a good thing that we started
accidentally the first episode of season
3 because I think if we had seen you
would know eyelet I think we would have
just turned it off right right exactly
but it always makes you think that's
what it's supposed to do it's supposed
to make you think about the what if it
delves into the darker side of the human
behavior and here is something really
cool about technology
here's what could happen with it if it
was abused or significant conversation
with Jeff okay technology Netflix I've
got it up here so I'm here so I'm logged
in as myself we're mom and dad and there
it is a black mirror you can see
continue watching okay
so if I push play on something and we're
going to hope that we don't get
copyright infringement notices here I
don't have audio on so I push play and
it tells me what something went wrong I
guess it doesn't work right actually
let's take all of about 10 seconds and
we're going to jump oh this holy cow
could it be that easy there's a button
that says enable DRM in the top right I
can push it and see what happens no way
that was pretty easy that was TV Wow
Mickey I could do that how was that out
of the box it did not work with a single
mouse click I was about to show you how
to go into preferences on DRM if you
don't see that alert because maybe not
everybody's going to have that I've
never seen that before this is probably
new in this version of Firefox if you go
into preferences and let's see I'm going
to try to remember where you find this
supposed to be good to know this stuff
content content there it is
played there it is played erm content so
that's the check box if you don't see it
under content and preferences
ah and it worked just like that or with
like w9 stretch they just give you the
button yeah there's the button
what's a feature of Firefox that was
easy it's just the default browser that
was installed Firefox ESR so simple done
and done with hot what else we got um
we've got a question from nickel off to
Sasha oh yeah says here's a nice
raspberry pie music player you might
like yes you say it is our p.i music
player calm so the good luck with your
wedding and have fun thank you i well
RPI RPI music player calm Raspberry Pi
music player all super cool that it
might be just what you were looking for
when you want a tinker right lovely what
does it do what to do yeah you can
okay Raspberry Pi Wilson even the PI to
small family love LA where the features
for the product come on tell me okay
it's got roon it's got mp3 flack DLNA
UPnP airplay Spotify zero so mondo
I have Spotify this is perfect with
airplay you can like cast this to
anything sweet I like that so hey that's
cool I haven't I haven't played with
this one but there you go
our pi/4 Raspberry Pi music player calm
that interface reminds me of something
does that not look like though look
exactly like Volumnia I wonder if volume
you know uses that interface because
that's identical I denti-cal hmm nice
open-source community driven here's the
hardware hey don't forget you can get
your Raspberry Pi Hardware through our
shop cap 5 TV slash pi and that's a cool
way that you can support
Gouri 5tv everything that we do here and
all the provision of free broadcasts
mm-hmm thanks for the tip anything else
for us we have yeah we good oh one more
we have time for one more we're over
time okay Jay Daniels asks why in the
world would anyone suggest a Linux
desktop that looks like Windows gnome is
like a Ferrari or new Porsche compared
to those other desktop environments I'm
tired of the same windows taskbar
taskbar a mess if you keep many
applications in terminal windows open
the old windows 95 or XP type desktop
starts to break down navigating some of
those menus on a touchpad is sort of
tricky too
and it worked fine with track point or
Mouse but not on those new laptops I see
on my touch screen I like the interface
of like the big buttons and things like
that even could go as far as saying that
single touch to open things makes a
little more sense but on my computer
personally I'm old-school I know but I
like the way cinnamon operates because
it does feel with inelia windows asked
yeah so now there's really what it's
about maybe it's the paradigm it's
that's what I'm used to that's what I
grew up with that's what I learned on
and so if I'm going to use GUI at all I
like that I prefer it I can find things
I know where they are so that's me why
would someone recommend it why would
someone promote it and I think that
boils down to kind of the exact flipside
of that where we live in a Windows world
sorry it's plain and simple okay we hate
to admit it as Linux fans but it's true
most people if you ask them what
operating system their computer has
they're going to say Microsoft Windows
so because of that as we're promoting
Linux as an alternative to any other
operating system and saying this is free
and they say well why would I want that
and you can start to share why they
might want that for the freedom for the
application suite for the fact that it's
low cost and you know it's upgradable
and keeps going for them but the fact is
is that if the paradigm changes it's too
difficult you remember when 8.1 came out
remember when Windows 8.1 came out and
Mike
Soph said ah we're going to get do away
with the Start menu and we're going to
throw up this stupid Metro crap yep
what happened backlash right so if I
present to you Linux and I say try this
you've got to try it it's awesome and
the paradigm is completely different
then I as a user the user that you're
trying to promote it to is going to have
a real hard time getting their head
around it and it just makes it
uncomfortable it makes them want to go
back and so if I can make it feel a
little more comfortable for them then
they're more likely to get into it
they're more likely to try it out learn
how it works and then get to the point
where now they're no longer a noob
they're no longer a novice user they can
start playing around and trying the
other things since when I gets excited
and for myself from a practical
standpoint my kids I'm trying to get
them into Linux because they've been
dealing with Windows through the
computers at school yeah and trying to
switch them over from the windows
interface to using Linux you know at a
young age they're struggling with that
comparison so you know I to use a you
know a format like that where it looks
the same as Windows makes it much easier
for my kids to transition so I can say
hey look I want to use the Linux system
and because there's dual boots on my
computer and so you know right yeah my
favorites are the kids to use exactly
yeah I have to worry about the malware
getting in and drawing their files
that's exactly it there I mean our
oldest is now getting into more
internet-based stuff and I use Linux use
let excuse ax you know so very cool for
that reason I like them the menu for I
think that's a good good reason okay
there you go there's my answer so thank
you very much for the question perfectly
valid and we appreciate it
and thank you so much for watching
tonight I hope you had fun
please do go to our website category
five dot TV lots of great content there
also you will notice if you go to our
website and you click on to this episode
or any episode for that matter if you
scroll down a little ways you're going
to see individual clips that came out of
this episode so you can actually click
on that feature this feature or that
feature and it will just play that
segment so then you've got something a
little bit smaller that you can share
with you that's a handy tool actually
really is and I love that it's so easy
to find now
that's how you want to do it all the
time that we have for this week though
folks it's always next week go there
always is none of us know it be none of
us know so just enjoy what we got and
we'll hope to see you next week tonight
