welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Ravi
Ferguson welcome to episode number 2 24
of category 5 TV it's Tuesday a January
the third one t12 Tuesday already it's
tuesday already I mean 2012 is a 2012 is
also shocking part it's the end of the
world is hey you're still fine oh you
know I'm swell I am swell yeah ya know
Christmas is good new years is Christmas
good it was awesome yeah you guys had a
good time yeah yeah how about you that's
wanted for that so I hope everyone's
Christmas was dead I hope everyone's
Christmas was for holiday festivities
hmm yeah and a Happy New Year to you our
first our first show back nice to have
you here we weren't sure if you were
gonna be able to get in something
happened that that we none of us were
expecting and what you want to tell the
viewers what's what's going on in your
life in the next couple of months in my
life well you see there's this thing
called continuing education where I feel
like I must further my education and
what do you do something and maybe I've
just missing the school like maybe I
secretly want to be a student again it's
just all the room boys yeah yeah that's
it homeboy but uh regardless my new
class starts up next week on Tuesdays
it's not an ideal like of all the nights
like couldn't you have called in and
said like come on you not change us for
me to be like Oh what I mean forget
about all the other students
hey what do you what are you takin um
though the whole course is called web
design essentials okay and this next one
is just web design so do you know what
you're gonna be getting into or you
gonna be doing coding or we've already
done some some coding like we've done
some just basic HTML we've done um PHP
I've taken a course for Python very good
um yeah so this one I imagine we'll just
be more HTML CSS just like the design
coniston which is important because even
though those are the base you know you
think HTML and you think ten years ago
but that's still the base of the
internet is hypertext markup language so
even if you're programming in PHP you're
outputting HTML XML so it's very very
important to have that base knowledge so
very good well we'll be excited to find
out how that changes and improves your
web development skills and maybe when
you come back then they'll be a good
opportunity you know not to brag but I'd
be getting 90s so far so have used you
didn't start till tomorrow what no no in
the entire course like this is my is my
fifth course out of surface clothes out
of six to finish the course oh so you
take several classes spread out over
time okay yeah and the only offer I
thought you were prophesying into the
future they know already getting 94 see
ya smart but I'm not that sorry coming
up tonight we are gonna be looking
pardon me we're gonna be looking at the
smart no I'm not I'm not poking fun at
you at all um speaking of you know being
at that level we're gonna be looking at
making Linux usable for children both
the age of three are you trying to say
robbie i don't i don't think that segue
really worked we do want you to come
back after this is an insult yeah i know
i know we're gonna be looking at at some
cool software for your linux operating
system were going to be given a shout
out to gtalk so stick around we're gonna
be learning all about how we can share
our computers or linux computers with
our young ones while not sacrificing our
own favorite desktop so we're gonna be
checking that it a little later on in
the show you've got some news coming up
as well of course I do so let's see
what's coming up in the newsroom we have
nASA has successfully orbited two
satellites around the moon to provide
incredible detail speaking of satellites
a group of computer hackers want to
block centrist censorship from the
internet by launching their own network
of orbital satellites which block
government abilities to censor its
content Mobile train tracks switching
technology could be exploited by hackers
and a real-life universal translator
lets people of different languages speak
to one another stick around because
these stores are coming up later in the
show I hope it supports Klingon you
would that be amazing I'd sit here
talking and Klingon and I would
specifically I would sit here rolling my
eyes no you would understand cuz of
their technology technology Christopher
it's so burn my eyes it's still clicking
you'd see she's still roll her eyes just
jealous just jealous hey our mobile site
is up and running mobile cat5 TV if
you're using one of those cool mobile
devices I've got my ipod touch which I'm
able to watch the show live I can't
really though because it's really
distracting when I'm talking and it just
and watching and watching at the same
time it's really distracting so I try
not to do that but you can so head on
over to mobile dot cat five dot TV also
a note that we've got live cat five dot
TV is our new live web site for viewing
if you're having any trouble with our
main website all you have to do is just
keep it in the back of your mind book
market live cat five TV for when the
site is experiencing higher than normal
call volumes and unable to serve up your
request so live cat five TV works as an
intern step for you we will be right
back after this short break cheers
they're hitting the road or the dusty
trails
Canada captures the action with a true
point of view HD video camera directly
into a high-quality amex goggle it
records every bit of the excitement
exactly how you see it if my octane
isn't your thing take a relaxing
underwater adventure and capture it
forever in high definition video with a
high quality underwater camera mask from
liquid image Canada perfect for the
enthusiast snorkeler or the deep sea
diver check out the entire line of
camera masks for every sport liquid
image canada.com this is category 5
technology TV you'll find us online at
triple w category 5 TV the the first
thing that you asked me when you came in
here is not how are you doing what's
going on how's life it's giving a cool
Christmas presents all is important very
important mainly on our tattoos I found
her little bog sitting on your table
there making that and you listening
definitely knew that's why I asked you
can't see this this guy you probably
heard him a little bit last week but I
got a spock bobblehead that when you
walk by him he says catchy Spock phrases
like live long and prosper my God look
at you you are after all an illogical
being things like that so I got I I did
get one really really cool christmas
gift from you by the way did you make
that fudge yes oh my goodness I stirred
it because it was hot my sweat went into
it and I burned my think that with that
little aftertaste yes so I mean there's
everything in there huh nope everything
I was gonna say it was really good now
I'm really grossed out sure you're
welcome thank you and absolutely
fat-free I'm sure how so I couldn't get
it about no no no but yes you did get me
one other gift and and i want to i
promised i would demonstrate its usage
will have a little unboxing and let's
let's let's go take a look at this
you
you're just rip apart the box don't I
want to hear that the music
actually actually quite relieved that it
worked so well
it's almost like you work in a pizzeria
that was that was good Wow there we go
hmm Star Trek cut pizza I got some
spinach on my finger hmm well this looks
delicious and it might be a little cold
I prepared it before the show my are we
supposed to cheers pizzas first does
that have referable before you bite it
you know that's a nice clean cut mm-hmm
mm-hmm you can see the edges perfectly
mm-hmm Starship Enterprise for the
delicious and that good oh my goodness
and we both have to take a bite because
of that garlic I'm sure I have spinach
in my teeth now too yep not what's up
that was the plan ya hear anything oh
well mm-hmm all right all right you are
questions hmm i think there's uh there's
a couple nurse first your question
actually in the chat room deniz kelly
wants to know if this is your new
Christmas cardigan you are sporting
tonight yes this is my cardigan from
Christmas aka my Christmas cardigan hmm
one of my hat great-aunt asticus yeah oh
this is not fewer hold on I am new to
the PC apparently makes when I actually
get to the viewer questions makes it
that much more last week interesting you
didn't hear exactly what happened the
last week just before the show Eric was
on his way on his way in 10 minutes
before the show 15 minutes before the
show fired up is that what we call the
the guest computer which is the one that
you use for the chat room and everything
bang went off turns out one of the
capacitors on the motherboard actually
exploded so the computers toast
unfortunately so it's an older system we
got a lot of life out of it like it was
like an 84 yeah cuz he was on his way so
had the electrician here today they're
looking at what the problem was and
seeing if they can get around that that
issue so we're really hoping for a surge
protector at the circuit breaker yeah
that would be a good idea yeah instead
of very vent thousands of individual
ones plug
into each individual device oh well
let's see we have some Oh Krista how can
people send them there viewer questions
how how well they send them to now what
if i get the the address wrong you can
send them to our live yeah at category
five dot TV you know right to email us
it's your email address i mean it comes
to your dad single time I'm on here I
say it but I don't actually listen to
myself said you've never said it it was
it you just were drooling and very hot I
thought I said the email address live at
category 5 TV is where you can email
your question or get in the chat room
category 5 TV as well so it's gonna be
one of those nights doesn't it it's
always one of those nights when you're
here ya feel so special oh and now an
excellent question from Franklin hey
Frank is hi Robbie I was wondering if
you would elaborate on the file system
command lines and all those funny little
symbols in the terminal in order to use
them how do i need to think i keep
rockin thank you to yours Franklin ok so
the fancy symbols come ya like like the
tilde yeah and they not all their sign
ok forward slash sure let's bring up the
terminal window on my computer now for
those of you who are watching for the
first time or using Microsoft Windows or
a mac i'm using linux very cool desktop
operating system and it it allows me to
do anything that that i need to be able
to do but it's through free software so
this is a free desktop operating system
you can install this on a pc so if
you've got a windows computer you can
change it to the next if you like so
basically okay so if you go CD / ok so
you're in the root folder of your
computer your computer so and by root i
don't mean the / route because that's
this one okay but the root folder is
basically the highest part of the tree
so if you were to look at that in a
computer like a you know you're looking
at your computer this way then what
you'll be looking at is / is the the
base level of your hard drive
linux is neat because it uses mount
points instead of drive letters so if
you're used to windows think of your c
drive so c colon slash is the same as on
linux your / partition folder something
like that okay so looking at that
considering you know just to make sense
of it that is you know CD / is like
going in windows c colon and then when
you're there going to CD / okay similar
kind of thing so that is basically just
the highest level of your hard drive
going into CD home this is where all
your user folders are found ok so my
user is called demo and go into the demo
folder and then I've got all my files ok
so now if i want what i can do is i can
go back to CD / then go CD tilde and
that takes me immediately into that same
folder my home folder which is slash
home slash demo in my case right it's
whatever your username is this computer
is called demo because it's the demo
computer for the show so similarly if
you're logged in as you know if I'm
logged in as joe and i type in CD tilde
it's going to take me to the joe folder
in home CD space dot dot takes me up one
level so i knew i was in slash home
slash robbie or slash demo right so CD
dot dot is going to take me up 12 just
home and then I'm back to where I can
see all my users ok does that help when
you were mentioning about dollar sign
those are like those are variables so if
I type in
right so i just typed that now if i go
echo dollar sign test maybe it's case
sensitive yeah okay so i set test equals
hello and then i echoed it out which
means to basically print it to the
screen and it gave me what i would I set
it to okay so that's a variable the
dollar sign so that's for setting
different things you know if you want to
set environment variables or whatever
does that help it's it's it's
interesting too once you learn the
differences between a Linux file system
versus windows file system for example
because when you when you recognize the
power of a mount point and realizing
that you've got slash home slash Robbie
/ pictures is all your pictures but all
you could take that you can get a brand
new hard drive you could install it in
your computer you could drag your entire
pictures folder over there to that new
hard drive and instead of mounting it on
like a slash or whatever you can mount
it to slash home slash Robbie / pictures
so every time now that I go slash home
slash Robbie / pictures it's actually
taking me into that other hard drive so
you can get a lot of speed by setting
things for example slash home slash
Robbie is on a different physical hard
drive then / right because then your
files your programs which are on slash
user slash bin are all going to be
running from hard drive number one all
of your user setting files and personal
settings are going to be on the other
hard drive so you get improved
performance that's the very base of the
power of a mount point on the next very
very cool stuff once you get into it
cool this is category 5 technology TV
love to have you join us in the chat
room if you're new here tonight let us
know nice to see everybody that helped
well I think a help yeah good good good
and what I think matters what Nora safe
Oh in general so that mattered to you
just in general
oh you want our question I've got more
questions that'd be great question is do
you want them i would love questions I
mean we're on the air we met I i might
just sit here and eat pizza but at some
point there comes a point where it's
it's all about the viewer okay well my
lips are so dry today I spent like the
day in the hospital yesterday and my
lips are like super Drive you ever been
to the hospital where it's like your
lips just dry right out it's such dry
air mm-hmm I haven't recovered so Cheers
don't worry I just cuts me off yeah i
mean that's that's really important I
mean we should I just saw you I just
thought you were fumbling with firefox
tabs over there so I'm trying to cover
for a real pc me mm-hmm okay well I was
nice for you but you know I am quick
quick like bunny and I have a question
for you ok another question actually
from Franklin I guess hey I'm Franklin
question Hagen but we like that so it
could be a different a fat one who knows
I actually I checked the email address
okay Franklin same Franklin he's an
inquisitive fella it's just an uber fan
this week told him he says it's probably
a good thing that he separated into two
questions otherwise would be one long
email we wouldn't know what to do with
it it's g mmm hey can I ask the question
now I wish you would you keep
interrupting me mm-hmm if I just say it
really fast so be hung it free on bad
idea okay okay so Franklin says
greetings maestro's robbie i have
installed and i have installed trial
version 11.04 on a four gig thumb drive
after about a week i have used up all my
space holy smokes Oh for getting my
files that's like one video see what I
put up with I can't even get through the
question will you just read already ah
so they keep all my files on a separate
thumb drive but still I run out of space
I find the blue to keeps a lot of
thumbnails well over a gig so I trash
them but or I go back into the thumbnail
folder and find it has not trash them
but double them is there a see cleaner
for Ubuntu or a system restore to take
it back in time
when it had space thank you what kind of
a paradox is that you go into the thumbs
folder you highlight them all to delete
them which creates thumbs of them Wow
don't know where that would end one of
the things you can do is turn off
thumbnail generation bring up your your
computer right so for example references
media no preview other preview will file
show thumbnails never and that will
solve that for you at least the creation
of thumbnails next problem you've only
got four gigs right so to run your core
operating system and your home folder
and all of your files and all your temp
files and everything on that one thing
it might be good to create a ram drive
or some form of transient memory mount
things to your temp folder so when you
reboot it it clears out or some some but
there is a tool called computer janitor
used to be called like cruft cleaner and
all that and a boon to I'm going to
bring up synaptic package manager
I'm going to type in computer dash Jan
okay I've already got it in no do I yeah
I do no I don't the check mark threw me
off computer janitor okay what I want is
computer dash janitor dash GDK that is
going to give me the GUI okay so mark
for installation that's going to also
add computer janitor because that's
required okay we want to make sure you
get the gtk because that is going to
give you the graphical front end okay
install that here it goes cool thing
about linux as it gets all your software
for you off the internet you don't need
disks if you've got high speed internet
connection it's very very quick it's
done okay we've got computer janitor
it's installed it's free clothes out of
synaptic package manager let's look for
it did it put it anywhere on our menu
that is recognizable if not yeah see I
don't see it just readily available to
me sometimes takes a reboot to get it in
there but what I'll do is I'll just go
into terminal just for the sake of
showing you computer dash janitor dash
gtk there it is okay so what this tells
me you know i can highlight something i
can say hey this play deb thing is
taking up some space and it's a package
that's no longer supported you don't
need it you can click on something you
know and it says well this package was
was installed because another package
needed it but now it's not required
anymore it's taken up 3 megabytes this
isn't huge but it's something ok this is
the temporary junk that you're talking
about if you've also installed a bunch
of stuff on your thumb drive in in the
linux partition right then it might be
keeping an apt cache so all the DB
packages that it's downloaded in order
to get all the all your software
installed you might want to clear that
oh but other than that really i mean
with 4 gigabytes your kind of limited as
to space so you might just consider
watching how much stuff you install what
you install remember that when you run
like an apt-get dist-upgrade or
something like that you're going to have
a lot of packages left over that you
want to clean up so let us know how it
goes and and will you know look at that
step by step and
get you a little bit further but I hope
that that kind of points you in a
direction that will help you and of
course if there's any other suggestions
in the chat room join us in their view
the chat logs for episode number 2 24
and I'm sure you'll find a lot of help
from our community as well thank you so
much for the question I've got more
questions do you want them great yeah I
thought I'd asked because you know
you're very opinionated I know what
you're talking oh here's a question from
Dennis Kelly okay oh yeah if someone
wanted to get their own computer repair
business started what suggestions would
you have for training and where to start
training see here's the thing is it
computers in general it's such a
fast-moving fast-paced industry that
training in the traditional sense
schooling I don't know if you find this
with with what you do or not maybe not
so much but with hardware it becomes
obsolete very very quickly so what it
boils down to is is just changing your
perspective a little bit so that you're
not pursuing knowing how the current
hardware works but instead underlie
understanding the underlying
technologies understanding what the
components that go into a computer are
and what they do that's probably more
important to you than being able to take
apart a laptop and put it back together
because laptops are going to change
desktops are going to change when they
bring out new sockets for the processors
you don't necessarily need to know how
to install a 775 as long as you know the
basic underlying principles of
installing processors making sure that
you use the thermal compound correctly
and things like that so apprenticeship
is a fantastic way to learn if someone
will take you in order to get started
you could possibly look at look around
fine and i would suggest finding an
honest computer shop they're hard to
come by sometimes but if you can find an
honest computer shop kind of feel the
waters and and see if they'll take you
on at a lesser wage even just to to get
some experience and explain to them that
you know I'm interested in eventually
starting my own business make sure they
don't think that you're trying to
compete with them but you know as a way
to get some education apprenticeship can
help and they may need a little extra
extra hands
in the shop and you may be able to learn
a couple things tapping into resources
like this show is a great way to learn
some exciting things we do try to take
things to the to the base level so that
you're learning the the like I say the
underlying technologies don't wanna say
that too much but really its key so that
your you're learning how things work
rather than how a particular device
works with computers it's ever-changing
so I think it's important just to
understand how to how to work it how to
what what things do so build yourself a
computer find some parts go to e-waste
and see if they've got some old
computers that that they're scrapping
that that possibly you could take apart
and put back together and mess around
with I don't know what your level of
experience is so I'm saying this is you
know very base entry-level stuff but
yeah I think that's probably what I
would suggest and welcome suggestions in
the chat room I don't know but it is
tough right because education / say is
it's really the field education is
what's going to get you having a
troubleshooting mindset is is key in
this industry especially if you gonna
start your own business you've got to be
able to troubleshoot you've got to work
that learn how to be a just real real
good at diagnosing something and
figuring something out that's that's
really important in this kind of
industry because otherwise what happens
is you can get a reputation for being a
bad business or a dishonest business
only on account of poor troubleshooting
which is really unfortunate because you
may be a very honest person and like I
say it's hard to find honest technicians
so it's it's important that you are up
front honest with your clients and and
tell them if you're if you're stumped
and use troubleshooting to figure stuff
out trial and error a lot of times that
helps we're getting right down to the
bare bare basics there
Sammy says got a Biff with Microsoft
what's that about hmm rhetorical
question rhetorical thank you very much
for the question shall we head into the
newsroom oh I don't see why not all
right
all right ready for the news great all
right so here are the top stories from
the category 5 TV news room the u.s.
space agency NASA has succeeded in
placing two new satellites in orbit
around the moon both both spacecraft
were both spacecraft swear put an
elliptical path around the lunar body
over the weekend after performing
braking maneuvers following their more
than a hundred day journey from Earth
the identical Grail twins are to mount
gravity variations across the lunar body
in unprecedented detail this is intended
to help scientists refine our theories
for how the moon formed very cool I
can't work this piece he just due to do
share hackers plan to take the internet
beyond the reach of censorship by
putting their own communication
satellites into orbit the scheme was
outlined at the chaos communication
congress in berlin the projects or
projects organizers said the hackerspace
global grid will also involve developing
a grid of ground stations to track and
communicate with the satellites
longer-term they hope to help put an
amateur astronaut on the moon my
volunteer hobbyists have already put a
few small satellites into orbit usually
only for brief periods of time but
tracking the devices have proved
difficult for a low budget projects
you're chuckling chuckling because I was
just thinking about how amateur
enthusiasts are putting something up but
only for a short amount of time I'm
visioning and exploding as it you're
fired visioning everything explosion
since that he does yeah you know you
know the hacker activist Nick fart first
put out calls for people to contribute
to the project in August he said the
increasing threat of internet censorship
censorship has motivated the project he
says the first goal is an uncensored
belen ternet in space let's take the
internet out of the control of
terrestrial entities interesting I think
so a security expert is warning that a
shift to a mobile communications
technology could expose rail networks to
hackers professor
yes prof Stefan co-captain by Sir hmm we
apologized the professor who is watching
and now I'm just kidding saskatchewan
Ian that's you no good excuse our
canadian eh that's so like we don't need
to pronounce your names a it's not that
we don't need to I can't we run capably
I mean give us a french spelling of
color and we'll do it but that's about
it sorry I didn't continuing on yeah
carrying on this is this brilliant
professor is said something I I don't
come on the show anymore I actually
don't even have I'm going to school to
learn everything I don't have classes oh
I just I can't take Robbie anywhere oh
yeah I'm pretty hard to deal with
continuing back to the news mm-hmm so
the professor made the claim I think his
communication congress in berlin he said
that the systems would switched trains
from one lie to another could be shut
down if encryption keys went astray he
stressed that trains would not be in
danger but there could be delays the
technology is already being used in
parts of Europe Africa and Asia Network
Rail is rolling it out in the UK and
aims to cover all Britain's rails lines
Britain's rail lines by the end of 2014
hmm Alexa phone has developed a space
space age technology I'm sorry I can is
it does that right i Ken yes mm-hmm I'm
sorry I having a bad talking day Oh
technology akin to the universal
translator of Star Trek of course
calling it an advanced automatic
interpretation translation software all
without the need for an internet
connection or even a smartphone their
technology allows people to have regular
conversations in different languages
when one party speaks what they say is
automatically translated into the other
person's language and vice versa the
service will begin with inga English
Spanish and Italian and the company
plans on rolling out many more languages
in the near future such as French German
Portuguese and major East Asian
languages like Japanese Chinese and
Korean
that's been passed a rector of just talk
trade oviya director of marketing
communications forestry and I'm sorry
tell the people what they want to know
krista well they don't want it listen
they don't come here to listen to you
Robbie wait that's wrong anyways likes
phones director of marketing
communications forest rain Marcia claims
that through their software there's no
language gap anymore because everyone
stays in their own language I think
that's pretty cool I think that's super
cool sorry for interrupting I just give
you a hard time it's like my last
showing a while so right you know but if
you guys are interested in the news and
not robbing I bickering you can get the
full source at category 5 TV / newsroom
the category five TVs newsroom is
researched by roy w nash with
contributions by our community of yours
if you guys have a new store you think
is worthy of on-air mention you can
email us at news room at category 5 TV
from the category 5 TV news room I'm
crystals Krista thank you so much ah
Andrew done we're done that that portion
hey tonight's news is brought to you by
garden gate farms you can get this
certified organic broccoli sprout and
wheatgrass juice right on their website
Garden Gate farms com you can find a
vendor near you also planet calypso get
the free online multiplayer game massive
multiplayer online role-playing game
cat5 TV / Calypso it's awesome and of
course we're brought to you by pogoplug
cap five dot TV / pogoplug check that
out and go to that URL to get your free
5 gigabyte personal cloud can't beat
that cool how how many technologies do
you think are inspired specifically by
Star Trek I mean how many technologies
the pizza cutter the pizza cutter
definitely inspired by Trek you never
look at a pizza cutter again without
realizing that it is right the
approximate shape of the USS Enterprise
yeah that's a true fact so that's all we
can come up with a strictly I actually
don't watch
Star Trek get out no I mean it go just
show something right I say we put this
to a vote chat room Giroux no no I'm
scared of the answer don't own yeah gar
gar be says tablets the ipad all of the
tablets that are out there that Android
devices they are so much like the pad PA
DD of next generation the the
communicator the original communicator
the tricorder in next generation is very
similar to a flip phone those we don't
see as much but the iphones and those
kinds of devices are very similar to
stuff off of the original series i will
anything hours for it anything else i
was watching for him tasers uh Gee
Siegel says Robbie f just cuz i'm
watching the chat room huh okay well i
just had teasers dennis kelly smith
tasers and you talk about okay users
Hades her shotgun ok G Siegel who says
Robbie f i downloaded debian and the
site stated that i only need DVD one it
does not seem so what did you down
download last week last week you'll
remember i actually use the business
card download it's 46 megabytes
brilliant and then a downsell downloads
what you've selected during the install
so if i if i say just a desktop
installation it just gives me the the
packages for that through apt so you get
this 46 megabyte iso and you're good to
go everything else comes online and you
just get it that way so you don't need
to go as far as downloading the DVD cuz
there's a lot of stuff on there that you
don't need and even if you install it is
probably gonna need to update it anyways
so cool thanks for question g seagull ok
well we promised it we're going to take
a look at how to set up our linux
computer to be more friendly to our
children I am talking young children
three-year-old four-year-old so
preschool right up to my daughter's age
who's six and maybe seven or eight years
old so well the question came in last
week in the chat room as a matter of
fact and I wasn't able to really touch
on it but the question was basically
g-dog was wondering what's a good
way to get a young person a child into
linux and get them set up with linux
distribution because linux is safer for
for any user but certainly for kids
being that you can really lock it down
but also there aren't the viruses and
things like that that you need to worry
about with a Windows operating system so
really really nice to be able to set
something up that has you know that's on
linux for the kids that's a good idea i
think so but here's the kicker and this
is what a lot of people end up doing
they put together a computer for the
kids because I think well I don't want
them touching my computer and that's
true to some degree certainly if you
have a laptop you don't want your kid
spilling water on it right if it's a
desktop you know if your keyboard gets
right to you can replace it for 10 bucks
no big deal but a lot of times we think
well we've got it you know I don't want
them messing around with my desktop you
know here here we go there's my desktop
I've got to set up kind of the way that
I want it you know it's got the
applications that i use it looks the way
that i like it it's got you know the
stuff that i want to be able to do you
know the effects that i use i don't want
my kids messing around with that so what
do I do can i still give them access to
this computer but not in such a way that
they're going to be able to ruin my
personal stuff my personal installation
so along comes kimmo and what it is is
basically a distribution it's been
around for a long time I shouldn't say
along along comes let's take a look
chemo Kim oh I say chemo because I'm
saying it kind of phonetically here we
go Kim 04 kids.com okay oh look at that
here's a look at that cool stuff okay on
the left hand side you've got a download
link you can get a torrent of Kim 02 is
the current version it's been around for
quite some time you can download that I
so
that's one way to do it here's the thing
if you download an iso you're going to
be installing the operating system on
your computer and that's what is going
to be installed in the computer so if
you're building a computer specifically
for your kids then I would say yeah give
it a go install from that I so you're
good to go in my case I already got
ubuntu installed i'm using Zorin OS so
it's an incident bhuntu based
distribution so what i can do is i can
actually bring up synaptic package
manager and if you've got a boon to
installed or any boon to based
distribution mint or whatever go in and
do a search for Kim oh and go to chemo
session and install that now you see
that there's quite a bit of stuff that
it's going to include with it because it
comes with some games for the kids comes
with the new session it comes with the
desktop environment xfce and you may be
concerned that's going to take up a lot
of space so we'll just go into terminal
use apt-get just to show you how much
space that actually takes up not as
sufficient as you would think or
significant I should say so there you go
372 megabytes is all this is going to
take up on your disk okay so that's not
that's not over the top so here we are
in my existing Zorin OS installation or
ubuntu installation I'm going to bring
back up synaptic package from me
synaptic package manager go back to my
search for kim 0 and install take about
two minutes to install this i can
accelerate things for you and basically
what we're doing here is we're being
able to establish kimmo on our desktop
so that the kids can use it but we're
not replacing our ubuntu installation
we're not reinstalling our operating
system we're simply using a new session
Robb Gore mentioning that there is a
virtual disk image that you can use as
well that does cost a dollar 99 in order
to get that here we're working with a
free a freely available version I would
encourage you to support them if if you
find this useful as any of these kinds
of free things I'm going to go into my
user manager now and I'm going to create
a new user for the kids
and call this one the children and what
we're going to do is we're going to set
up that user so that it automatically
loads gitmo when they log in add mom and
dad password okay tell it you don't want
it to automatically log in you need to
have it request a password we're going
to log out of my current session and now
we're going to click on the children
which we just created and change our
session this is why we needed that
password to be there change our session
to Kim Oh game mode after session there
it is so once we login we will see we
are straight into the camo desktop and
we can get started popping things on the
lower menu down there and a grab super
tux cart my daughter likes that and just
drag it on there until it gives you a
space like that and let it go and then
we can configure it bring up each
application setup for full screen if you
like which is what I'm going to do here
and here we go go into options I'm going
to set that to full screen and my screen
is 16 / 9 so be mindful of your display
proportions you set that and apply and
you can see that's perfectly fill the
screen so I'm going to keep that and
I'll just exit and then reopen it just
to make sure that the settings have
taken place so we want to set this up to
be as simple for our kids as possible
there we go perfect so next up we're
pretty much ready to go I'm going to
delete this panel at the top you can
always re add it if you want to just
follow the steps here and just right
clicking on the panel and deleting it
the top one panel one and now it's gone
nice and clean nice and simple for the
kids it's got a nice little assortment
we've got G comfrey and some other tools
that come pre-installed and set up and
I'm just going to add a logout button by
right-clicking on my panel down there
and adding that feature there we go so
back to our login prompt I'm gonna log
back in as myself and we're going to
finalize this installation see how quick
this is real easy make sure you change
your session back to your gnome or
whatever you were using because the end
layin is going to set everything back to
xfce so you want to make sure you
reconfigure you configure yours you only
have to do it once and go back into user
manager and bring up that the children
user or whatever you ended up calling it
go to advanced settings and enter your
password if necessary next up we're
going to go in here and basically untok
all these boxes unless there's something
that you want to give them access to
this is going to remove access to things
like the internet and being able to
insert CDs and now we're going to change
our password settings and just tell it
don't prompt me for a password anymore
so now they can't change the session
they can't do anything other than just
login do their thing I'm going to log
back out to show you so now if my child
clicks on the children there it is click
go straight in and we're set good to go
that's as simple as it is brilliant
stuff right so just as a test this
afternoon actually set this up and I set
my six-year-old daughter down for the
very first time she's never used kimmo
before and instantly she was going into
stuff and playing with different games
and he saw how easy it is to just drag
and drop things down onto the panel so
it's xfce so you can drop things down
there different applications once you've
deleted the top panel so that they can't
get into extra stuff you can recreate
the panel by right-clicking on your
bottom panel and adding a new panel or
you can do whatever you want you can
just add new applications that way
really really straightforward but i SAT
tally down and said okay well take a
look and she thought it would be fun to
do what she calls tally talk stack she
wants to be a television broadcaster
when she's older and very well that's
something she's still very shy in front
of the camera so so taken easier on her
but I put the camera in front of her and
let her do her thing so here she is
trying kimmo for the first time she's
six years old she's never used it before
and this is how easy it is for
six-year-old to get using kimmel
looking at kimmel
one draws a quick picture
they are in finished like come on with
me is 18 years so there she is using it
for the first time nope and she ends it
by saying that it's really easy to use
she really likes it she's begging me to
install it on the computer upstairs and
see that's what's interesting about it
is by being able to install the session
as opposed to the entire operating
system reinstalling my wife's computer
is is in the kind of public area of our
house for the kids play and everything
so they often use her computer here's an
opportunity for us to put in a new
session where my wife can logout or
switch user she doesn't have to logout
and the kids can just click on the kids
and it automatically brings them up into
Kim oh and they have access to their
very favorite games and nothing but just
the stuff that that we have set up for
our kids it keeps them safe it also
makes things easier for them and it
gives them a fun user experience and I
think that's important for our young
kids because it gives them a chance to
get to know computers to get familiar
with linux in such a way that it's a
positive thing in their life and and to
know that hey there are no pop-ups there
are no malicious pieces of software
which which we become very familiar with
on windows in a very short amount of
time but ideally I think it's a great
scenario where we can just log out log
back in as the kids they can just click
on it and boom it's into their personal
space it's their computer when they're
logged into camo which is very cool but
then mom or dad we log out we log back
in as ourself and it's right back as you
see it there it is cool stuff eh so
Linux is very unique that way where we
can actually set up these sessions so
each user can have their very own user
experience it's much different than
Windows where it's really your own space
so that's that's just a little
demonstration of how we can use that for
our children this is category 5
technology TV and we're online at triple
w category five dot TV just emphasis
again kimmo is spelt q I mo and go to
kim 0 for kids com you can download the
full iso if you like you can install it
on your computer
as the main operating system if it's
just for the kids but then again you can
install it as a package kimmo session
kimmo dash session on any boon to based
distribution or download the packages
from their website if you're using a
different distribution as well cool very
cool yeah thanks everybody any questions
in the chat room notes oh just mentioned
that tallies very cute there are some
thanks yeah she's a doll she lost I
don't know if you noticed but she lost
her second front top tooth over
Christmas she's got two missing big top
front teeth and the one lower one so
she's completely like gapping yeah so
cute cool any other questions for us as
time rolls on we've got about 10 minutes
so if you have any questions for us
Sammy says and you know you got some
questions for us in the chat room live
at category five TVs our email category
five on freenode cool i have another
inbox what's in a question for you my
pizza's getting cold oh well then you
should eat it no no I'll just I'll just
talk people people thought semi Johnson
x 12 minutes all right well that's a bad
idea well this for your question says hi
Robbie angang first I want to thank you
for your answer you gave me a book
compositing desktop zoom and the ex seem
alternative I finally switched fully to
linux since I me what if they can hear
me chew oh you want me to talk louder
yeah maybe speak up since I only have a
16 gigabyte solid-state drive in my pc
i'm wondering how to use my external
drive with all my music and movies on it
a as a home directory or which sounds
better you know what I'll stop I've
Dennis I think that we got this question
last week and it may be redundant I do
reckon I'm wrong duplicate question oh
sorry about that did you got to eat some
future event I did I plan that dang why
wouldn't i knew i wouldn't have to
answer it I practice my Annunciation and
that's good yeah that's good for me yeah
you said you said the words I I'm so
proud of you oh wow so how long you
gonna be gone for schools coming up Oh
next week how long am I gone for it yeah
I think you know I never actually look
at the syllabus this is horrible and so
I don't even know when reading week is I
think it's three months that's important
to know so in that time is reading me
sometimes some time yeah so you come see
us during that week if I remember when
really because you're supposed to be
studying so you'll be on the air steady
mmm studying yeah you could just we'll
do a show on all the questions that you
have for your course it shouldn't be
studying how do I do this in PHP again
it's like a question from your final or
something laughs again we're be good ya
kin folk of this what the viewers put on
video you can put it on like your iPhone
and see my frazzled studying mode hmm
it's not good hmm any questions for us
in the chat room nice to see everybody
did we get any new viewers I didn't see
anybody but if you are new this week I
know we often have new viewers who join
us in the chat room if you're watching
and you're not in the chat room and
encourage you to get there that's a fun
place to hang out with other viewers
especially during the live show have you
gone over much PHP on the show before
I'm not a whole lot we covered a little
bit in the web dev series but we didn't
get too heavy into it I've had some good
talks with Garvey in the chat room yeah
sometimes I'm there and sometimes I'm
answering questions about PHP we've got
some cool stuff in our wiki um but no
not a lot of questions have come in for
on-air perusal might be something for a
feature if somebody has a question yeah
I'd be happy to JBS see see us do PHP
support look at that Texas well hey sec
you you let me know what you'd like to
say echo hello world and see I don't
know much about PHP either because my
class just Falls the basic so
enough that would be super cool yeah I
could sit here as stunned and confused
as the rest of you or more so but you
can watch it over and over again and
learn I mean 1976's can we look at html5
and css3 that might be great but but at
the same time we kind of need to grasp
HTML 4 and CSS to before we get into it
or at least the understanding of the
standards and what they do well it
sounds like it's another series there we
go series starting on Reading Week do a
one week series mm-hmm that'd be fun you
guys like it vote for it yeah speaking
of voting go to our website bottom the
site bottom right vote questions there
every single week all right yeah lots of
votes for more web development stuff so
so we also need to hear from you if
you're adamantly against that I know we
put job to sleep last time oh yeah he
had good nap so that it was good naps
yeah that's good so something win John
skip naps and everyone else learns JV
SEC says is html5 a question that'll be
the questions the beginning of your
question comes in to us this week it is
html5 okay let's get started with dark
tight that's good mm-hmm PHP and MySQL
dark dark tower 59 says interesting
stuff getting into some database and
things like that that'd be fun tough
though to do in a one hour show I mean
we had we I think we managed pretty well
with cat five TV / webdav in that we had
to kind of space things out over several
weeks mm-hmm but it's tough because you
you gotta get somewhere you gotta hit a
milestone each show and with getting
into mysql and stuff with there's a lot
of very you know sophisticated stuff
where we're gonna lose a lot of people
during that 15 minutes so wats and apps
lots of naps bring your pillow
but it could be interesting yeah look
into it we're gonna write some basic
Greg and Texas says we'll go back to GW
early early basic language just watching
the chat room here folks so chat rooms
flying by people are making fun poking
fun no questions other than html5 basic
well now you started something now
that's all the chat room could talk
about 10 go to 10 that is going to max
out your eight megahertz computer CPU
Sammy says action as a question he says
what was the reason for the switch from
open office to star office in later in
boo two roads you mean libre office
libre office is because open office was
bought out by well son was bought out by
oracle and oracle is basically yeah or
is not a question mmm huh bri Marie
happy an apple time huh it's running
away just before as it runs away I
should just say leave your office is a
fork of openoffice it's the same
software is just the open document
foundation took over and said you know
what we're not going to do open office
anymore we're gonna do LibreOffice it's
our own thing it's a fork and it is no
longer Oracle that's all that's all I
it's open yeah hmm so it's free before
Robbie you talked over me open office
isn't dead it's just that it's Oracle's
i'm watching the chat room have anything
you've frozen the chat room and
particular line internally you said i'm
watching it fri by an answer forty point
font so i can see like three lines at a
time okay sorry go ahead sorry frozen
well I'm sorry yeah i heard your
eyesight was really bad this it is bad
but yeah pretty points a little yeah
anyway so quick uh Bree Marie says I'm
having a problem keeping my samba shares
in Linux I can set up okay but when
either the host or client desktop is
rebooted the share is not visible and I
have to set up this year again ? hmm
how are you setting up the share are
using the g why are you doing it through
bash just editing the Samba comp for
what you doing Samba can be a bit of a
beast as far as if you haven't trouble
there they can be tough to work through
especially if you've customized stuff if
you're using the GUI stuff then it could
be as simple as your IP address changing
and your host name is not updating so
set a static IP but if you're actually
losing the share like it's disappearing
and you're not and you're no longer
shared or is it just that you can't
access it from other computers Brian so
using the Nautilus GUI from another
linux computer you're trying to connect
to the IP address is that right sorry
that there's a bit of a delay here for
those of you who are watching we're
waiting for Brian Murray to respond
there in the chat room
so shares the videos folder to a Windows
machine and then so from the windows
machine you're going / / 192 168 1 100
or something whatever your computer is
so is your IP address changing does the
share does the share disappear from the
computer the the ubuntu computer or does
it just you just lose access to it from
your your Windows computer there's so
many variables here man and and I I
could ask you tons and tons of questions
might be something that we should chat
about in the chat room afterwards
certainly the Samba forums ubuntu forms
as well would be a fantastic place to
get help on that kind of problem because
a lot of people there are going to have
experience and be able to answer they
ask you the questions that need to be
asked but if you're using the GUI in a
boon to your creating the share and it's
vanishing as in yeah it disappears from
the Windows machine but does it
disappear from the ubuntu machine
because then if it's disappearing from
the Windows machine it's a Windows issue
not a new boomtube issue necessarily so
lizard a mount point again I go back to
your host name is it is the IP address
changing and windows is not detecting
that change so a couple of different
variables try mounting it to the IP
address set a static IP address on your
ubuntu machine and then try mounting to
your Windows machine using the IP rather
than the host name it tell me Bruyette
is that any help to you I know we're
just about out of time here Samba is is
basically windows file sharing and
between Windows and Linux you can share
files over your network Samba is the
Linux equivalent to SMB protocol on
Windows so same process never fails when
sharing from a Windows machine to Linux
vice versa so is it bribery that your
Windows machine is a static IP and your
Linux machine is getting dynamic off the
router and incrementing getting a higher
IP each time you reboot or just tossing
ideas right
and when you when you reboot here's my
kind of final question this we're at a
time but bribery if if you reboot your
linux machine and you say your Windows
machine loses access to that share and
then you go to recreate the share does
the share look like it still exists or
is it gone and you've got to recreate
that share if that's the case it might
be a permissions issue saving it to like
saving the settings so that when you
reboot it happens again it recreates
that share it could be if you're booting
from a flash drive but your flash drive
loses those settings on boot bribery is
going to send me some some messages on
IRC as well just to kind of follow up
with that question so sorry I'm not more
help at the moment but big question so I
was a big question right it's a big part
of your operating system being able to
share through your network little issues
like IP addressing host names it could
be share issues there's so many
different things that could be issues
there so but but we are out of time
bright so I will talk to you in p.m. and
nice to have everybody here joining us
tonight good to see you thank you for
coming out yes good time see you guys in
the future in the future when I am
smarter yeah i read i look forward to
taking read properly yeah that'd be good
maybe i'll probably a great show for
once we have yet to have an awesome show
well I mean category 5 in general is
awesome yeah when I together it's kind
of like it's a catastrophe a little bit
well we had pizza and we had water I
mean I could think of ways I could get
better water but you know it's all good
but reading week we should get you to do
a lot of reading yeah the show I'm
thinking about 30 minutes of news with a
lot of with really big word I'm thinking
maybe if if some of our German viewers
could submit names give it yes you're
not easily offended down there by
mispronunciation of all your needs oh
you can't be offended know you've got a
little half point energy can't be
offended
alright well hey it's great to see you
thanks for being here yes not probably
I'm we'll look forward to seeing you in
several weeks time but she's off to
school folks but turned up real well
right back yeah go get learned I'll see
you have a great week everybody see ya
