welcome to episode number 302 of
category 5 technology TV i'm your host
Ravi Ferguson and I am your co-host the
gang oh I'm Eric kid Eric how are you
Robbie doing good man you I am well I'm
looking forward to a fun show tonight
I'm happy to be here and I am just glad
to be alive when I tell you what's
coming up in news what do you think good
idea do it we can do that excellent okay
coming up in the newsroom twisted light
can transmit data at 1.6 terabits per
second through fiber optic cable
facebook gave a researcher $20,000 for
discovering a bug and reporting it back
to them a pair of windows viruses or by
Ryan are helping each other survive
Voyager 1 may soon leave our solar
system two men enter interstellar space
Wow the researchers have found a way to
cram 1000 terabytes onto a single DVD
and half-life 2 is now stable on Linux
stick around these stories are coming up
later in the show awesome Eric do you
remember when we reviewed the world's
smallest computer I remember that the
company rikomagic the manufacturers
those uh that was episode number one I
don't know parmeet 283 go check it out
if you haven't seen yet the world's
smallest computer rikomagic has
continued to develop their products and
tonight we're going to be showing you
some of the latest and greatest from
them also we've got a ton of viewer
questions tonight so we're going to
crack into the mailbag and we're going
to have another viewer question
extravaganza this time we're opening up
the phone lines so feel free to pick up
the phone give us a call to 545 cat5 TV
to get your question and 4 to 5 45 2 2
85 88 that's true that's what he said
that's what it is in code hidden code
you can also get us in the chat room at
category 5 on freenode and of course
through our website category five dot TV
so stick around we'll be right back with
all these exciting things coming up and
your viewer questions don't go any
right back this is category 5 technology
TV
at eco alkalines we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference eco alkalines calm this is
Ravi Ferguson and I'm Eric Kidd I'm the
co-host by definition and how about a
big shout out through some of our new
registered viewers yeah Jay Blake 58 hey
hey and sifo and Bill 777 sifo bill 777
nice rifle sifo yeah one person let me
know okay saying hi to both of you okay
same time it's the thought your new
thing the multitasking and we have J
voltage to two people j bolted j and
manda BM man debian i bet is probably
probably you know man debian man Devon
man debian but you know yeah well leaves
like what you say like it's a syllabic
stress being on the third last syllable
it could be like beyond debian ooh i'm
thinking as probably like man debian
like a realization welcome nerdlings oh
and taco when hey taco one taco on i'll
say one you say when one of us to be
right and they'll smile so can be duck
struggling with this one em to be dumped
be duck mped I gonna let him have that
one so please click and k-12 DOB
and mem ito 64 and masterminds nice to
have you all here joining us as new
registered viewers on our website triple
w category 5 TV of course if you
register you get access to some really
cool bonus features on our website as
well you'll be able to participate in
prize draws and things that
non-registered viewers are not able to
pay ability to wish the good participate
be like ah only I could participate in
this well now's your chance to go and
register on our website category 5 TV
but Eric how much does that cost it's
pretty pricey it's gonna take you
probably 20 seconds 30 seconds that's
all of your precious time time is money
Eric it is hey I'm donating an hour or
so here's magnet I want a ring I take
any water race oh I do have a gift for
you tonight then we'll talk about that
all right are all right you had a
birthday recently didn't ya I didn't I
did I am down 35 dance hey dyslexic
don't forget to go to our web star
mobile website if you've got a mobile
device scan that code mcat 5 TV we've
got live streaming they're both audio
and video at the same time but also i
mean like separate you can just listen
to the show if you want with category 5
radio which is kind of cool quite
frankly neither one of us is that good
looking we have really good basis for
radio as they say I in I'm gonna leave
that alone for now category five TV is a
member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here and at the
International Association of Internet
broadcasters thanks Eric okay I
mentioned a little bit of a we're going
to be looking at some gadgets from
rikomagic you mentioned rikomagic band
you mentioned episode 2 83 yeah well
remember back on episode 283 we actually
looked at the remember yes easy sorry
yeah but yesterday was Canada Day stable
I was on a gig happy canada day related
by the way it just fell in such a way
that here we are wishing you a belated
canada day but for those of you in
America we can we can be proactive and
say happy fourth of July to you we're a
little
well we're a little yes that's
independence day is enough yes mmm yes
very good your history is there you go
really impressive Eric part of the
coming up with a sequel to that movie
too oh dear that's what it was sure okay
okay no we looked at this device cake
let's let's get on track here just for a
moment okay rikomagic this is the mini
pc right so we looked at this bad boy
awesome stuff this one's still in the
wrapper this one's brand new so this is
the the bluetooth you know it's it's
actually a full computer and that's what
we looked at on episode number 2 83 so
go check that out when we looked at this
device the reason that I pull that out
is just so that you can remember what we
were looking at that night so that is
the mini PC but we needed a particular
type of USB hub to run that to remember
this thing this is the the newer
technology 7 port USB hub it's a powered
USB hub with its own power supply and
everything I wonder how I could best
show it to you maybe if if Heather are
you able to actually see if I hold that
up you can see that what's really
interesting about this device not only
is it is you know it's a full hub but it
also has a 2.1 amp dedicated power port
that's what was really good for us when
we're using our rikomagic device because
it gives dedicated power with no data
connection to a computer anything is
just straight power being generated by
the newer technology hub powered haha so
this is not just great for that I mean
we found the perfect use for this device
but it is a seven port powered hub USB
to point it is a fantastic device and it
is high powered like this is 4 amps so
you can charge your iPad off of this
thing which and I the reason I use iPad
or your blackberry well that that
doesn't the iPad draws a lot more
current like if you plug an iPad into a
computer there's not enough current in
the computer to charge it right so you
plug it into this and it's all of a
sudden you've got you know 2.1 amp
dedicated so this has got a lot of power
behind it reason I wanted to bring this
back up tonight is because we've got one
to give away ah so I want to actually
send you one so pop me an email live at
category 5
TV if you're watching this you know on
demand if you're not able to watch the
live show send me an email live at
category 5 TV tell me where you're from
what your registered viewer name is
because you've got to be registered on
our site which is free as we mentioned
and then we'll enter you into the draw
if you are going to be watching the show
live next week don't worry we're going
to have drama joining us in the chat
room and he's going to go in grab all
your names and draw but put you into the
draw so okay so that is that we're going
to send that anywhere in the world very
excited about that because it is a
excellent device okay i mentioned
rikomagic is is you did bring it out
some really cool yes new versions new
upgrades we looked at I mean this this
bad boy is amazing we looked at this one
a little while ago yeah right they sent
me another box and said okay this one
this when you're not hooking it up to it
I'm not hooking it up all right now this
is a precursor to the hookup episode
where we're actually gonna set out we're
going to configure it and everything but
not okay so first of all immediately you
notice that the box is about twice as
big so you figure the things going to be
twice as big you'd think that you'd
think so apparently I'm betting you'd be
wrong I'm bettin so here we go okay
looks the same so it's about exactly the
same this is the 802 for a total to four
but the four is in Roman numerals so
this is the 802 IV if you would say so
yeah it's like an inner Venus vision so
this really be plugs you in with all the
awesomes there must be more goodies in
the Box I bet you have to have some
unboxing music alright here it goes
Heather could you grab the guitar okay
no there's oh oh look at what they've
thrown in for you okay we've got our ru
hdmi little an HDMI well because here if
you haven't seen the feature here's
what's cool about these it looks like oh
not only the unboxing the unselfie Nina
can I take off the cellophane I think
you can we asking permission or ability
sir may i yes
me thank you grammar police okay so it
looks like a USB flash drive right but I
take this off and what is that but hdmi
full-sized hdmi so you can connect this
directly into your HDTV alright so got
the USB hub well that can power that
kind of power that is very good yeah
okay so let's open this up instead of it
I'm very sensitive oh this is beautiful
ok so the extender what this does ok is
it takes that hdmi and it makes it
longer so that if your TV for some
reason is set up in such a way that you
can't plug that directly into the back
because you know maybe the etching is
there sir please you know yeah so this
allows you to in that case boom it still
works on your TV and it just hangs off
the back it's a full computer I'm gonna
tell you the specs in a minute that's
gonna blow your mind but look at what I
see in the box I'll show you whoa it
came with an AC adapter they're thinking
and you know this could be after our
last review we said look we need to have
a third-party adapter here because a
computer generally are partly
responsible for this Illinois am well
because a computer can't power the
rikomagic device because there's just
like the iPad there's not enough am
pitch there right coming out of the
computer so they're actually including a
device here that is going to plug it in
so there you go and now you can plug it
into the wall you're good to go and
there's also for those of you who want
it there's a oh it's actually they've
included in a u.s. median and yeah a USB
mini to USB a adapter I think that's a
right that's cool that could actually be
really really handy for a lot of things
another thing I would never understood
about usb being Universal yeah y ahora
there's more than three different that's
I didn't come in handy though because
how many times do you need to charge
your phone and you don't have a USB a
totally now I so folks okay thats just
want to make sure that's you think
that'll fit your black but i think it
might oh look if I foot is in Pearl
check better look at that it will charge
your blackberry too sorry go there's a
charger for you back all right right in
the box okay sweet deal
for those of you who use blackberrys oh
those poor kids took another hit on Wall
Street I know if they ever okay here it
is this is the new model I told you that
they've been upgrading and improving so
what do we got okay first of all it's
Android jellybean 4.2 okay it's an
rk3188 quad-core processor this has a
quad-core CPU GPU built-in it's got to d
3d acceleration it's got 8 gigabytes ram
up to 16 gigabytes ram built-in i guess
that's an and memory like not not ram i
should say it's a it's the like the
actual storage storage space ok 2
gigabytes of RAM pardon me ddr3 and it's
got it actually has a microSD port on
the back here and with that micro SD you
can put in up to 32 gigabytes of storage
so if you want to add extra storage
space to it you got plenty of room for
it it has built-in Wireless 802 11 BGN
and there you go so they've basically
taken it and it's quad-core while
screaming fast and because this is this
is a standard ARM processor guess what
we could put linux on this ah so that's
one of the experiments that we're going
to be doing out of the box like I say it
comes with Android 4.2 and now 4.2 is
also available for the original
rikomagic mini pc so if you bought this
after seeing the review will actually be
showing you in an upcoming episode how
to upgrade to version 4.2 of android OS
so that's going to be cool too okay
you're ready for more there's more come
on let me cameraman he's still my
beating heart do I sound like like a
absolute nerd like tella that didn't
start tonight Robbie no okay hey I've
got to show you this so the bald nerd
moniker I know it's a lot of hair on the
side there rule this week what can I say
okay when you're when you're working
with your mini PC or any of these kinds
of devices what's the thing you're okay
how do I want to control it and I have
you know I've got the controller the air
mouse from my xios okay so that works
really really well and I use that I've
also got an air mouse that that
rikomagic this is their early model air
mouse which we had previously used with
the with the rikomagic mini PC okay but
watch what they're doing now oh okay air
mouse meets television remote control
are we a universal no universal remote
Holy Smoke dainty right it's got
everything on there that you'd ever want
TV VCRs left leg hair says that'll with
the TV and DVD player this works right
okay so it's just a universal remote big
whoop it has a USB input can you see
that that USB input charged I see more
he sees more the USB input charges the
built-in battery so you never have to
change a remote battery again now are
you ready let's turn this thing around a
full qwerty keyboard with directional
area arrows on the back of your
multi-function remote this keyboard is
in fact bluetooth whoa
you can use this with anything that
supports bluetooth so you've got now you
have that we finally have a remote
control that makes sense for our home
theater PC regardless of whether you're
going with a rikomagic for your home
theater PC whatever you have if it's got
bluetooth this is it so this is our most
nor a keyboard and everything it's all
there and yes it has an air mouse
built-in that so you can actually move
around like this you know I first
started working TV station they had
these eunuchs terminals that and I set
them up with windows 95 was pretty cool
and with nice and honest to goodness i'm
not exaggerating this one poor person
was their point holding the mouse up in
the air trying to make it was especially
the cordless they were they were well no
we didn't have cordless yet come on oh
yes okay for that that's right it was
nineteen ninety-two by with it okay
nobody got here I want to show you okay
we've got a charger cable okay and also
the this is just the adapter adapter
your computer now receives the Bluetooth
signal one is able to support this
remote little instruction manual and
there you have it I think that's the
perfect htpc remote what do you folks
think in the in the chat room so again
this is looking amazing so our whole
setup here yeah when you want next well
yeah cuz we want to actually hook this
time thing this is probably not only is
it a fabulous idea but I mean it's it's
not particularly expensive no it's very
gentle yeah it's amazingly cheap this
stuff rikomagic calm i'm going to
actually bring up their website real
quick but i'm going to post links in the
show notes for episode number 302 as
well okay so i just want to see if I
still have a short link there yeah Rico
it's cat five dot TV / mini PC and that
is actually going to take you to their
website you can see some of the amazing
stubble they're coming up Vinnie yeah a
webcam with a built-in while rikomagic
type device so you'll find all this
stuff they're all of the pricing is
available to you and they're shipping
worldwide right now so that stuff is
available to you
cap five dot TV / mini pc is the best
thing ever fantastic so is the remote
well so are these all available
separately yes okay yeah and there's the
remote this is the MK 702 Roman numerals
to soho 7022 are there other models
available of the remote not this one
this is this is the remote that you want
to get for sure you'll find it all on
rikomagic we're not going to get into
pricing and stuff and because all that
stuff is being you know put up on their
website but when you watch the the
website category 5 TV and we're going to
be announcing when we're actually going
to be conducting a full review of these
products in which case you know at that
point we're going to actually be firing
things up we're going to be running
everything showing you what happens on
the screen just like we did an episode
for 283 with the other product and we're
going to show you how everything
connects and how to how to make it work
so but they are very affordable as Eric
was saying so check it out cat five dot
TV / mini PC all one word this is
category 5 technology TV I'm Robbie
Ferguson and the American it's a viewer
question extravaganza tonight so we get
right into it I think we should do a
couple questions before we jump into the
news and then we'll come back to your
questions as well don't forget our our
cat phone as we call it the telephone
here in the studio is open to you if
you'd like to give us a call to 5 45 228
588 that's basically 255 calf five TV so
there that's all right way evidence we
have a question from Steve hey Steve
Steve says you could show how to hook up
a VGA or an hdmi cable from a laptop to
TV I did this with my new 220 dollar LED
32 inch TV 720p screen excellent as a
monitor huge and beautiful I'll vga em
/em cord cost me only ten dollars at
microcenter old editions of it Linux
reset resolution to 13 60 x 768 new ones
sets it automatically secretly I think
they're over
pricing on some chords price-fixing
perhaps if you go as large the screen as
you want great for watching videos and a
cat5 TV great idea it worked for Steve
there you go Steve ya know if you can
get a cheap cable okay so I'll tell you
the difference between so that's a vga
male to male like just a monitor cable
basically so an output from a laptop or
a desktop computer going out to your H
like your HDTV the disadvantage to the
9-pin you know the blue adapter kpa
cable as you say is that its analog so
you're getting a signal that is not as
good of quality as the HDMI so if you
have the option output from HDMI that's
the one you want to go with because then
you're going to have true digital HD
video if you're going with D Sub the
9-pin a kind of cable you're going to
lose signal quality and that could also
be why it's detecting the the erroneous
screen resolution because you're
connecting it to a TV not to a computer
monitor and so it's not a plug-and-play
device necessarily the computer sees
that it's there but probably can't quite
tell what the device is and what its
specs are like a computer monitor which
really feeds back a lot of data through
the cable to the to the the computer so
go with HDMI if you can our tables price
fixed and overpriced you are seriously I
mean you walk into a supercenter you
pick 10 bucks for a vga cable and you
know no big deal but you go in and it
just price out a 50 foot hdmi cable or
25 foot hdmi cable and you'll realize
pretty quick even even better would be
think about a category 5 or a category 6
networking cable just grab a prefab one
from a store and you'll realize how
overpriced it is because you know
there's so many middlemen and their
prefabricated up there you know the cost
of a cable might be a buck or two to the
the people who are selling it so you
know if they're charging you forty fifty
dollars for the cable but not everybody
has the tools and the email don't have
little ones together yeah but you you
know if you're looking for cables that
can
be manufactured on your own go into like
an oem store that can make cables go
into an electronic store and say you
know can you make me a cable you we have
spools of indicate when will cut off a
length and that's what the couple's
about a great little store sells in a
barrier know where ya doing the
commercial spot but called sale ok all
the little connectors and get like thing
you can like the overview of taxes yeah
it's like yeah but way more than I'm
finding it at the source no the sources
is not what it was when I was a kid and
I say no riddle said I definitely did
radio shack when Radio Shack was radio
shack back in the 80s you could go in
and it was like it was my dream because
I was building i was talking to back of
the other night about how i used to
build patch panels audio patch panels
from little parts that i bought for a
bucket radio shack and that was so
awesome and the fellow behind the
counter was a retired electronics guy so
he like it will be this way around i
know what you got to do is it lives
anyway it was just nice little fun
that's cool well i'll check that i
pleased nice well i am I gonna do you
know we've got something I gotta bring
up to you yeah you're gonna have to
bring this up alright so if you bring
that up working on Pyro's rock this
world pyrus rock yes haha just received
this thought you might add it to your
collection excellent okay I'm just going
to save this to my desktop here pires
rock we like to protect your email
address if we can yeah so oh nice so
this is an email i guess that has come
into tip iris rock or viewer there we go
google 15th anniversary reward center
it's a it's an anniversary award its
seemingly from google makes it look like
it's from google you know what's
interesting about this and and you may
not immediately pick up on the
subtleties that these scammers and
phishing scams try to use to trick you
into thinking that this is legit the
first thing stands out to me is that it
says google betta and
and it says what does it say right above
that it says ssl so you you kind of and
it has the little lock so you kind of in
your head think oh this is this is
secure it's email all right you nothing
is secure through email regardless but
interestingly enough so but isn't that
neat that they you know that don't fall
for that folks there you go so you want
a prize congratulations and it looks
pretty official and an email with a
handwritten signature is always official
you can tell interesting thankfully not
all that to say you know pires rock this
world sent that in for those viewers who
are looking to that one or and what does
it mean companies usually won't you know
they won't solicit you by email like
that but hackers if you will we'll call
them hackers just because that's the
generic term that's been applied to them
will use company branding from companies
that you possibly trust in your bank are
here google how often you get something
from a bank and it all looks legit
unless you actually run your your mouse
over top of the email link and you
realizes 2xw why is Q rt.com off
somewhere and it's not really going to
RVC your TD wherever you know and they
want your in from anger s you know
social insurance number it's like it
always is meant to look really official
right so you got to be really really
careful of what what you reply to and
your email and what you what you click
on what links you go through in this
particular case it looks like they're
not even getting you to really click on
links what they're trying to get you to
do is to fill in the blanks provide what
your full name your country your contact
address your telephone number your fax
number your occupation your sex and your
age so with that information I mean if
if I had that amount of information
about somebody I'm pretty sure I don't
get a passport I could be done I could
have come to you yeah so this is
probably an identity theft at
mped so you want to watch out for that
kind of stuff for sure alright thanks
for sending that in mr. Philip brenson
and thank you for the email susan yes
okay here's a question from Jay read hey
jay is there any easy ways to use
encryption on users shares that reside
on an unrated server know very very
complicated just like everything that I
show you we want to make it as hard as
possible I'm detecting a slight hint of
sarcasm I guess since you asked so
nicely when they ugly go for that I mean
can we go for easy encryption okay first
of all unraid is a server platform for
hosting multiple hard drives in a single
physical box so I've got a computer on
the network that has seven or eight hard
drive so now I have the capacity of
basically six or seven hard drives in
that with one extra hard drive for
redundancy so if one failed I don't lose
my data great little server setup but
can you encrypt it I would want to ask
myself before I answer that question
then the answer is yes okay I answered
it sorry but the fact is over well it's
an in-house server so the only person
that we've kind of touched on this
before but if you encrypt something that
is only accessible to you anyways then
the only person that you are basically
encrypting against is yourself if
somebody if somebody breaks and want his
wife to see his data but she would
because it's on the server and so if
somebody were to physically come in and
steal your server they would fire it up
and they would have an unencrypted a bit
because even if it was encrypted they
would have the ability to boot up the
whole thing and it would be readable if
I encrypted it though then the Senate
the scenario is if somebody stole a
single hard drive from
that drive would not be readable because
it's no longer a part of the array which
also decrypt the data for readability so
who am i protecting it against the the
problem is is then okay so let's say you
have a catastrophic failure and five of
your 7 hard drives fail so you take
those hard drives because you no longer
have parity because the more than one
drive failed it was a power surge say
and you take those drives to data
recovery and you say okay well here are
the five drives that have failed and I
need to get the data off of them and
they'll say okay yeah we could get the
data off but it's encrypted so we're not
going to be able to read any of that
data know what now what exactly so with
this encrypted right now we've basically
caused a really risky scenario so I'm
just trying to think of a scenario where
it would be necessary to encrypt a non
raid array because it's an in-house
server is not world accessible it's not
accessible by anyone except those who
are in my network connected to my
network it's kind of like you know I've
got you know thirty five hundred dollar
Martin guitar mmm it has a little lock
for it yeah on the case yeah what I'm
gonna take the case but anybody's gonna
steal the guitar is gonna I'm not gonna
open the case and take the guitar
exactly know basically all that's for
keeping your kids out of the case may be
you know it's not really gonna protect
the guitar from anything accidentally
opening yeah that's about it okay so all
that said I wouldn't mind hearing from
you what what your reasoning and thought
it processes behind wanting to encrypt
you want to do this why do you want to
encrypt a nun raid array why you gotta
be like that why you gonna do this man
why you got to do this uh okay there are
no I'm gonna touch on the question like
that's that you are still doubt my
response but also its pretty long
preamble to I'm sorry going into okay
sorry sorry for trying to be helpful
sound a little negative i thought well i
want you to know the risks if i'm going
to do something that could risk the
integrity of my data in an event of a
catastrophic
failure without any positive benefits
than I want you two to know that to the
left for your phone you know I hate when
that happens cuz you plugged in i am
sure and i see it i could actually say I
think it's somebody from the studio I'm
gonna turn my phone off there's an idea
ah he's new here oh wait a minute no
he's not ok so the of course to encrypt
you you probably use en CFS like encrypt
the file system which is coming
available with unraid version 5 which i
understand is in betta and I'm I'm
really so you know I like to use the
stable version so I'm on 4.7 version 5
though is is coming along quite nicely
and i'll give you the link to this
episode number 302 it'll be in the show
notes quick link for you is cat five dot
TV / enc and you see that there is that
will just take you right to the
encryption section here and you see
unraid five has the Encke FS plugin and
that basically will provide what you're
looking for encryption on your own raid
device there's also a there's a neat way
to do it is to actually install
something but on your SATA bus which
would allow you to use an actual key
lock which would have an encrypted and
decryption kind of thing going on so
still have you end up with your scenario
five or six drives down den de lo yeah
and critic asya a lot of trouble that
that way so yeah it's a hard call but
does it send me a follow-up email and
let me know why you why you hopeful do
that and go from there hope that at
least gives you some information but cat
five dot TV / e NC and that will that
will take you to a forum thread that
gives you a whole bunch of information
about how to encode or encrypt I should
say on an unread alright go
but why we do news folks okay hers was
it more question let's do news and then
questions all right let's do it here the
top stories from the category 5 TV news
room not the way of boosting data rates
an optical communication using twisted
light has been shown to work in optical
fibers the light is effectively
corkscrew-shaped and more data can be
encoded in differently twisted beams the
concept had previously be shown had been
shown off over free space but it
remained unclear if would work in fibers
but now a team reporting in science has
demonstrated data rates of 1.6 terabytes
per second over one kilometer of optical
fiber this is still short of the
over-the-air rate of two point five
terabytes per second demonstrated by
members of the same team in 2012 care
about his Turbots I had to Freud that is
a small be there I did not I did not
correct kilometer but i have to the geek
in me has to correct that it is terabits
2.5 terabits a second how would you
correct kill me two kilometer it's
that's incorrect kill 0 equals syllabic
stress it would like didn't with my says
I didn't correct we've lost this fight
in the media terabyte kilometer and a
thermometer it that should be a gauge
for measuring something killough
kilogram killem yeah okay tenth you
wouldn't say a cool kilo all equalto
meter as you say a killer leader yes you
wouldn't say kilometer maybe I met if
I'd had a couple of them oh it's just
you know you ended up with a terabyte
the americas got all of a terabyte and a
terrace allston terabit is a completely
different thing out that was absolutely
a different animal I'm getting the bike
totally totally different thing totally
different thing i will give you that but
either way that's what i did not correct
you when you said who instead of whom
earlier so um can we get back to the
news let's do it
so let's see this is still short of the
over-the-air rate of 2.5 terabits per
second demonstrated by members of the
same team in 2012 but it is a powerful
proof of principle for adapting the
technique to use with fibrin data
centers I think all in all it's it's
fast are we having fun yet yeah facebook
not again yes Facebook has rewarded a
British man with twenty thousand dollars
that's about 13,000 pounds after he
found a bug which could have exploited
to have been exploited to hack into
users accounts Jack Whitten the security
researcher discovered the flaw in the
social networks text messaging system
Facebook thank mr. wytton with 22 who is
part of the sites responsible disclosure
Hall of Fame the company like many on
the web encourages experts to report
bugs to them rather than cyber criminals
I wonder like if I were to report you
know the bugs that I encounter day today
if I could get you know a portion of
that I don't know or do they spit don't
buddy how to do I I hate even go there
with this but you know are the
cybercriminals gonna say yeah they gave
him 20 thousand what if we offered 25
what if we offer oh yeah imagine what
you could do with with all that yeah
data okay come on keep it on it's not
the Facebook is ever compromised
microsoft research has suggested that
they are ma during tube computer viruses
which collaborate together to spread
each other through networks and are
proving hard clean from infected pcs the
pair of viruses foiled removal by
regularly downloading updated versions
of their malware partner they are using
unknown to antivirus programs which let
the malicious programs persist once
present on a pc the viruses let thieves
take over a machine so it can be mined
for saleable data or used to send spam
or to attack other machines the close
relationship between the two viruses was
revealed in a blog spot by young choi
from microsoft mount where research hmmm
that is something so they're getting
smart aren't they okay so the saying
this is hard to detect etcetera etcetera
etc so what about the folks from
je said or knows right I'm not familiar
with the particular virus but I think
the idea is is that here's a virus or a
piece of malware that gets into the
system and if you don't have a book
malware until it partners up and
download this other no I think it sounds
to me as though it actually goes out and
gets its partner and and they both wreak
havoc then if you if your virus scanner
happens to get rid of the one it go the
other one of it goes and gets reinfect
right and it's probably one of those
things that morph some changes in
everything so sounds kind of that way
and this being from Microsoft to I mean
the they're probably testing with
security essentials not with ESET so
yeah I mean it's really tough to get it
on our own product Voyager 1 may soon be
the first man-made object to enter inter
teller int I try interstellar again give
it a go maybe the first man-made object
to enter interstellar space really it
could be any day but it could also be
several more years that's a quote from
dr. ed stone who has worked on the
Voyager project from the very beginning
he can't say when the voyager 1
spacecraft will leave the solar system
but he believes the moment is close the
latest data from this extraordinary
progra pardon this week's science
journal suggests it is surfing right on
the very edge of our sons domain the
particle streaming away from our star
have been reduced to a trickle at its
present location 18.5 billion kilometers
from Earth particles flying towards it
from interstellar space by contrast have
jumped markedly in the past year so
there's other matter out there there
that's what it's telling us it all
points to an imminent departure which
would make Voyager the first man-made
object to cross into the space between
stars launched way back in 1977 the
probe is now traveled so far from home
that it's constant chatter of data makes
seven takes 17 hours to arrive at the US
Space Agency's receiving number
so that's surprising to me I would have
expected it to be much higher 17 hours
but I can't they leave that it's still
communicating far away plutonium is a
pretty viable battery source yes but
even just the fact that the the signal
is making it this far in only 17 hours
what's that 2020 yeah like what what is
interstellar space we don't really know
is there is it because of the
convergence of all this matter and
energy is it gonna just destroy the
thing who knows or could it keep going
and keep broadcasting because if it only
takes 17 hours to get the data to us
yeah that's really cool Wow it could be
like a horizon like what's beyond the
horizon it looks like its infinite right
and then you get there and it's like wow
yes it's the truman show and then what's
on we're gonna get it on the other side
of this is gonna collide into the wall
okay a trio of chinese scientists have
discovered a breakthrough process that
could at least in theory allow a DVD to
store a whopping 1000 terabytes or a
full fatal bite oh now we get to learn
the true meaning of terabyte a thousand
terabytes on an optical disk wow that's
a you know but I'm never gonna say oh we
never need to store that much data
because i remember when i had my you
know 20 20 meg hard drive and I got my
360 Meg hard drive yeah my friends they
never feel that real never in a million
years fill that on yet here you are that
was megabytes not gigabyte but with a
thousand terabytes on a single disk even
with spirally light optical cables
that's gonna take a long time you know
imal of 60 gig with my current internet
and I quite often go over
Bay has just been completely demolished
but yeah yeah the new blu-ray discs are
1 1 petabyte Wow when you rip it you're
gonna have to find a new encoding mpeg-4
just storage capacity the DVD is limited
by the size of the laser beam burning
the small pits that represent the
streams of data blu-ray increased its
capacity by switching to even smaller
blue lasers but the storage capacity of
that technology maxed out as well in
1873 a German physicist named Ernst a be
found that a beam of light focused
through a lens could not be any smaller
than half of the lights wavelength and
for visible light which is used to burn
digital media disk that's around 500
nanometers so instead of breaking that
law the researchers found a way to work
around it by using two beams of light to
cancel each other out and by ensuring
the beams don't completely overlap a
much smaller beam can be created to burn
even smaller pits on the disk massively
increasing its capacity since writing
1000 terabytes of data would take
forever developing faster ways to burn
discs will be necessary before consumers
are ready to adopt the new technology
but the prospects of DVDs and blu-rays
taking a quantum leap in storage
capacity is still incredibly exciting
I'll say I just wanted what integrity
the material in which i'm holding the
pits that'll be because of its porous at
all you know down to whatever number of
nanometers the the in the Vietnam eaters
what you think about if there was like
this most yes that would be exactly if
you were to pronounce ok we nanometer
the way you pronounce kill kilometer it
would be known ometer and it sounds like
something for measuring nanometers how
big is it physically how big is a DVD
like four and a half inches across or so
somewhere around there around there and
you think about like it the most men
you'd scratch so if in that amount of
space there is a petabyte of data and
you get even the slightest little
fingerprint for loop just a little bit
with gigs upon gigs
data from the little peanut realities of
a clean room you won't be able to know
it'll have to be an enclosed in itunes
could we go back to the to the carts
where the disc is actually protected
inside of a cart like a floppy disk oh
thanks well i don't know i'm guessing
how would you do it you have more
there's more last week that means the
availability is not a popular game
portal on linux and now half-life 2 the
first person shooter game also made by
valve has migrated from beta 2 stable
release on steam for Linux showing even
further the valve is serious about
expanding its steam gaming platform for
linux users half-life 2 episodes one and
two as well as the spin-off mini game
half-life two Lost Coast see their beta
tags shaken off and are now available in
steam for 10 bucks and dice it's getting
serious folks linux is a gaming platform
just saying get the full story as a
category 5 TV / newsroom the category 5
TV news room is researched by roy wa ash
and stephen Delaney with contributions
by you viewers if you have a new story
you think is worthy of on-air mention
email newsroom category five dot TV for
the category 5 TV news room I'm Eric
Kidd thanks Eric check out ads are calm
for the fastest asynchronous JavaScript
ad serving code at zerk dot-com my mom
my a3 ol mum said what's hazard when I
wear the shirt I was last I was your
everything yeah variant I went over for
a visit okay like after I was like mom
was watching no no no no
oh no no she hasn't figured out the
computer yet but alright but she must
ask me about five times when I explain
it and then again so what's answer it's
asynchronous JavaScript serving code mom
it's the world's fastest asynchronous
jazz code that's yes I mean think in
terms of the cloud mom sorry I'm leaving
that alone all right we got a couple
more questions there that we can sure
why not thanks for sending in your
question folks live at category 5 TV
don't forget you can give us call I know
you know we're not at all used to taking
calls in studio but 2545 cat5 TV if
you'd like to give us a call let's do it
somebody call an occult or terminal arms
up sorry okay oh we're gonna have an
email from old salt hey I have an
emachine ET 1331 G dash 0 3 w with six
gig of ram oh do you want all the so i
go through all the spectre I'm AMD
athlon too yeah it's got a big hard
drive it's got nvidia graphics okay of
course the ethernet and here's an HP
all-in-one printer so it's a basic
consumer computer off the shelf emachine
you want to note we can add ubuntu is
the third OS without any problems what
os's are on there right now well let's
see we go back to Scott X on 32-bit in
windows 7 home premium 64-bit nice so
yeah do it here's what I would do okay
what do we do Eric any time we're gonna
be repartitioning our hard drive back it
up back it up back it up back it okay so
get clonezilla clonezilla org run a full
backup of your entire hard drive
including the partition systems because
you just want to take that risk if you
are reasonably experienced with
partitioning then it's not going to be a
problem for you're going to be able to
create a partition install to that
partition with the installer and a boon
to and Ubuntu is going to install a new
bootloader so you're not going to have
the windows boot loader anymore it's
going to be the grub boot loader
and with grub it's going to then present
you when you first boot the computer
with windows XP Windows 7 and Ubuntu as
well as a couple other options like
recovery mode for linux and and possibly
memtest and things like that but
regardless it's going to create a triple
boot environment for you and give you
the menu to do it reason that we want to
use clonezilla first is just so that you
have a fallback plan just in case
something goes wrong or you know it's
pretty unlikely but I don't like to take
those risks and it's not going to take
you much time to run a clone clonezilla
will create a backup of not just your
data but the whole the whole hard drive
including the partition tables if you do
a device to image style clone what is
neat about that is that when it creates
the image it's not going to store empty
sectors so if you have the 700 gig hard
drive and you're only actually using 200
gigs of the data of the drives capacity
it will only be a 200 gigabyte image so
it works out quite well for you so give
that a try and and let us know how it
goes but yes it will automatically pick
up your other operating systems and
it'll do it all for you so just be you
know be cautious as you're going through
that and the aboon to installer will
actually prompt you if you go through
with some of the default it will say do
you want to overwrite the operating
systems that are on there or do you want
to add to the free space Ubuntu and it
will automatically repartition your hard
drive and make a triple boot for you but
again fall back on that clonezilla image
just in case yeah hmm exactly an old
salt has been in the computer since das
in the wind windows oh yeah thnkx XP is
the best version they ever came up with
them I just thought of dad I suppose
like if it was like a battle of
Microsoft products than XP was kind of
the first stable so to speak the the
most stable of the the lion with full
multitasking right I think it was
revolutionary at the time yeah
so okay how about another one love it
thanks for question okay and here's one
kick kick how do you say that there
aren't that many syllables I'm just
saying though that was just sorry yeah
doc and tonight I had raised because on
tonight hi Robby and Rachel oh I use
keep a sex on for computers three Linux
one Mac cool and want to keep the
database files in sync they're not on
the same land but can connect via the
internet using SSH I plan to have one
machine be the master and have cron run
our sink in each direction from each
machine to the master okay I'll have our
sink make a copy before overwriting I
think this will work but it seems a bit
clutchy another technical word ah la g
pledgie pledgie do you have a better way
to do this I love the show it's always a
lot of fun and very informative I really
enjoyed the back and forth banter I
usually can't watch the whole thing live
but we'll watch it later on thanks kick
kick kick girl well kkkkkk kick and we
will pass along let's see we get high to
Rachel yes uh I think you're I think
you're really on the right track yeah it
seems like you understand SSH and the
ability to actually connect to a server
using like an ssh connection because
you're doing that with our sink what if
though we were to take a different
approach and instead of using our sink
to think each computer and potentially
cause issues and then you've got actual
individual copies of this file scattered
on each computer well I guess it depends
is are the are you always connected see
I want to imagine that you're always
online if you're always online i would
set up the ssh connection that you
already have established and on that ssh
connection would lay for the one file
that gets backed up and that one file
would be accessible through an FS tab
entry so that your each of your other
computers would then
have the mount point set up in the same
way so that they all share the same file
through ssh and they're all connecting
to that server and they're all able to
modify that file and use that file and
all that concept but if you ever lose
your internet connection then you lose
access to that file so that's where if
you're on a boon to you can use things
like Ubuntu one and you don't have to be
on a boom tube you can just install the
one do one who boat we do like a boot
cool definitely but it boom to one is
like a cloud-based storage place so it
gives you the same thing but what's
advantageous about Boone 21 is that if
you lose your internet connection your
computer will fall back on to a local
copy automatically that it is already
synced from the cloud so that might be
the route I would take but SSH would be
the first one I would do we we did a
feature on the show if you go to
category five dot TV I'll just quickly
grab you the episode number i'm going to
do a quick search for SLL CIFS SMB FS or
m8s mb f s FS tab why don't I do that
I'm going to go with the old SMB FS just
because that will take you right to the
original episode and just be mindful
that you'll need to change it to cifs
because as sm bffs has been deprecated
i'm on episode number 296 actually we
talked about that very thing so check
that out and that refers to so episode
number 296 talks about it in viewer
questions and it refers to our lesson
that happened on episode 266 about 12
minutes into the show which shows you
how to set that up so that they're all
connected all the time to the server
which is really really cool I love that
I've got just to give it an example
scenario god I realized that my wife's
documents like the files on her computer
in the documents folder that her backup
hadn't been running because it'd gotten
too large and it was not working so well
what am i doing why does she have her
own independent documents folder I've
got a server here so what I did is I
created a document share on the server
and I used FS tab using this procedure
to change her documents into a
point I moved all her files down to the
server into the share and then i mounted
through FS tab documents so now when she
brings up document she's none the wiser
she just still sees all her documents
but actually they're on the server it's
still the same place it's still in her
home folder and a folder called
documents because that's the mount point
and it's all there so then I back up the
server on a nightly basis off-site and
all of her stuff is involved in that
background so I love that method of
doing things so let us know what you
choose and and otherwise I think you're
on a really good track with our sink but
just you need to figure out some kind of
a script to make sure that it doesn't
overwrite it if they're having like if
the changes if the changes were done
with my computer I don't want to get
that file overwritten another computer
right it can get a little bit
complicated that's where an already
existing cloud infrastructure like
Ubuntu one would be advantageous all
right another question I think we'll
squeeze it in okay here's a quick one
from I guess this is mikey mikey mighty
Scotty gloopy alright so I'm going to be
playing music in a bustling city park
and I was wondering if we could if I
could use to DSLRs to do a multicam live
stream could we do it using a macbook
pro I know in your video you have
separate pci cards for each camera now
the DSLR is gonna if you're hoping in to
hdmi it's our HD hdmi output in which
case your macbook pro doesn't have an
input for hdmi it has an output for hdmi
but you keep it like that hdmi cable
from your camera into the hdmi output on
your laptop and you've got two signals
clashing with each other and could cause
some damage so you're going to still
need some kind of capture device if your
MacBooks are and if your macbook is new
enough then you might be able to add
like an external thunderbolt or USB 3
capture device like a black magic
intensity external unit that would work
and then you use something like wire
cast from cap
five dot TV / Wirecast to do the
switching as you saw on the show the
DSLRs are going to probably shut off on
you after a little while so if you're
doing like a flash mob or something
where it's going to be done in five
minutes flat then you do just fine and
you get some amazing video live though
what I would do give that to the
scenario is i would set up my DSLRs and
i would use those to shoot the video
recorded to its internal storage or two
it's flat flash drive or whatever shoot
it enfold like full HD and then you're
getting that away from the streaming out
of it and then just have a handycam or
some other kind of thing like we use you
just a DV camera with a firewalker your
macbook is going to have a firewire
input so then it's only SD quality it's
really low quality but at least then
have you've got to HD DSLRs recording
full quality full frame rate 60 seconds
of frames a second it's fantastic video
and then you've got the one that's
shooting live and it's stream it's just
streaming really crummy quality video
but it's it's good for four straight so
then you take your high-definition
camera sources you take those ones back
to the studio you pose produce them and
you make them into a nice video and
everything looks really really good when
people actually download the thing off
of or watch it on youtube or whatever it
is so that would be the way that I would
approach all right what's that somebody
saying your mic so can you guys hear me
through all that the mics are loose that
mics aren't the boss I didn't check your
visible Museum a good why might I didn't
check this oh noes olive you're good all
right you know what did you guys hear
what I said because I don't mind
repeating myself if I need to
just for that one question oh sorry most
of the time you cut out and there's a
lot of static well if you can hear me we
should say hello to our viewers on
YouTube blip TV Miro internet TV first
run TV Roku etc okay we're gonna
actually redo the whole show right now
so well no jot you are so kidding right
I'm watching the chat room here Oh jots
pulling our leg I don't know well no
Eric's mike is fun you guys know how to
private message right no way Oh guys we
love you show's over get out of here
thanks for joining us tonight next week
is gonna be really exciting crystal
Wells is gonna be here with me in studio
and she's way better looking in more
charming than I that aside we've got
this device to give away this is the
seven port USB 2.0 hub got that to give
away and we're gonna be showing you how
to convert our photos into video
slideshows using free software so don't
miss that next Tuesday night so have a
fantastic week everybody and we will see
you in a week save it bye bye
you
we hope you enjoyed the show category 5
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven p.m.
eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
