welcome to category five technology TV
we've got a Raspberry Pi three model B
plus we've got a rock pro 64 we've got a
rock 64 and we've got a pine a 64 LTS
these are single board computers that
are available right now at the end of
2018 we're gonna put them head-to-head
in a deathmatch a battle of the board's
we're gonna find out not only which one
is the best as far as performance goes
but we're gonna find out which one is
the best value with a cool new algorithm
that takes the dollar value the
performance value Masha's it all up
chews it spews it out and gives us
something that we can actually compare
across various boards our live
recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drive by Kingston technology
revive your computer with improved
performance and reliability over
traditional hard drives with Kingston
SSDs category 5 TV streams live with
Telestream wire cast and nimble streamer
tune in every week on roku Kodi Plex and
other HLS video players for local show
times visit category 5 TV category 5 TV
is a member of the tech podcast network
if it's tech it's here cat 5 TV slash
gpn and the International Association of
internet broadcasters cat 5 TV slash ia
IB well welcome to the show everybody
nice to have you here as you know
tonight this week we are looking at
single board computers we've got four of
them that we're gonna put head-to-head
in a deathmatch that has never been done
before well we are going to finally know
which single board computer is the best
value for the money yes that's happening
tonight we had that discussion last week
about how we should maybe compare price
wise as well as benchmarks and figure it
out and so I wrote an algorithm we're
gonna talk about it in a few minutes as
we get into that I'm excited for this I
you said it last week and I did not
think it would happen this quick like
you pulled it had and you know I had a
full head of hair just seven days ago
eventually we'll get ya
this week it was actually 22 years ago
feels like I'm still sorry I know full
head of hair I'm still on the air I saw
a video of you with hair what what's not
weird
no it must have been Halloween from when
I was but a wee lad I think there are a
few of you who can relate and so to you
you're my favorites how's everybody been
you guys had a good week it's nice to
have you back again yeah it's good to be
back you know the hair keeping the pouf
yeah that was a jab at me you could
shave your head and give me some of that
maybe do up a wig and yeah how do we get
on this is a tech show I don't know I
can't feeling vulnerable about my Sascha
what's going on okay my week has been
busy like crazy good yeah yes but okay
so I'm gonna tell you about a problem
that I had and the solution that I
realized exists remember a while ago we
did a review on the boogie boy
sink yes and I've been going to school
so diligently taking notes on it I
bought one yeah and it's been working
great except for the last couple of
times I've used it I've everything
looked great and I was saving and
erasing and saving and erasing the same
as what you're supposed to and I just
say this paper yeah you write on it and
then you press save and it will save it
to an internal storage exactly as a PD
and then it saved as a PDF yes okay okay
but it wasn't saving it wasn't safe so I
went through were you losing what's on
the screen yeah it looked saved so
everything visually I was super
confident that everything was saved and
then I went to go transcribe my messy
chicken scratch into actual typed notes
and there was nothing no you know what I
did I am such I so it comes with a
little stylus on the side that I yes
yeah but Jeff said you have to use that
stylus way back I remember now but what
had happened was I was taking notes on
regular paper and then I just retracted
the pen part
I was taking notes on the on the boogie
board sink if you have one know that the
notes will not save me unless you write
with the stylus from the sink no they've
lost it I lost it all yeah girls from
class who's gonna lend me her notes but
that's right but and now now I know but
I'm gonna tell you in case you have one
as well that's the thing you need to use
I don't know why that's when you wrote
with the pen with the ink retracted it
showed up on the screen yes but did not
say did not say wow so it's also really
good if you wanted to use it without
because when you use the the sink yeah
if you don't save in just a race you
know it still saves it but it saves it
in the erased file so saying you wanted
something truly to be just in that
moment like a credit card number or
something right yeah don't use the
stylus okay right so there there are
ways that not using the stylus could be
of use I wonder if this gives us some
insight as to how it's able to save like
could it be multi-layered we've looked
at ePaper yeah which doesn't save so
could there be another layer beyond the
e paper so what you're seeing is not
actually a screen it's a paper but below
that is yet another layer of some kind
of magnetic surface or something that
that stylus activates right actually
creating a paper and then a digital card
yeah and so that's why that one stylus
is necessary I wonder if it was we have
to tear it apart it was to break
everything apart our 0% that use it when
it happens accident on that is what I've
been trying to solder something and then
that's just the outcome but it wasn't
intentional that was a painful lesson to
learning this week but I have learned it
now and now you know too that was that
was my week in a nutshell oh ok alright
thanks for sharing it yeah that's sad
I have just been going crazy with single
board computers and doing some fun stuff
we're going to be getting into it in
just a few moments time so I I i will
tease a little bit but
we ran into a problem with power
supplies how do you power all these
single board computers I'm gonna show
you the solution that I came up with
okay and it's a really good one so stick
around whether you shop on thinkgeek
gearbest PNH photo/video eBay or Amazon
or even if you want a free trial of
audible you'll find the best deals and
support the shows we produce by simply
visiting the shopping sites you already
frequent by using the links on our
website visit category-five TV slash
partners for the full and ever-growing
list and help us create more free
content like this show thank you for
shopping with our partners and thank you
for watching welcome back this week
we've got a lot to cover so we're gonna
get right into it and it starts with
kind of how I had to come up with a
solution and I'll just say I was really
nervous coming up to this episode of
category 5 technology TV do you think
it's because you know it's complicated
and the right I was really nervous
because Canada Post is going through
rolling strikes so everything that I
needed in order to achieve what we're
doing here today had to come through the
postal system from Amazon Prime yeah and
it arrived yesterday from last Wednesday
right yes six days later so it's here
and I've been cramming to get everything
done now I want to show you a little bit
about what I've achieved what I've done
first of all I had to get because we're
what we're doing is we are cross
comparing several single board computers
I want to finally answer the age-old
question from about two weeks ago which
is the best single board computers cause
what we're setting out to
if not this week over the next couple of
weeks so one of the things I had to do
was get on Amazon and order a whole
bunch of Kingston SD cards micro sd yeah
so I picked up this really neat little
little case I'm gonna show you this this
is pretty cool
that is awesome it fits in your credit
like a credit card sleeve of your wallet
right and it holds ten SD cards micro SD
no way that is so useful so I bought a
bunch of Kingston SD cards off of Amazon
and loaded it up some of them are in
single board computers right now but I
really needed to have easy access to a
whole bunch of SD cards and this is a
way to safely and portably transfer it
sleep it's just a ten dollar stupid
little thing then I just added to the
cart as I was checking out because I'm
like okay well I got to get all these SD
cards for all these SBC's I'll be
testing where we're gonna put them all
it gets confusing when you popped into
my head right now
yeah are they can you wipe the memory
from them with a magnet like are they
should you keep it away from that right
so you should you keep it away from
things if it's in this easy to carry I
wouldn't put it on top of an electro
pulse you wouldn't put it near your
cellphone would you put it near yourself
oh sure
okay they're all things what you're not
supposed to put things next to other
things
yeah magnetic storage and stuff and yeah
I don't know susceptible to okay but I
mean an SD card is waterproof and you
know sometimes as long as it doesn't get
too hot it can go through the wash and
it'll probably still be okay but here I
it before they plug it in right yeah but
you put it in your person in your wallet
and it's fine
oh yeah well cuz it's the form factor of
a credit card yeah it's just a little
bit thicker maybe the the thickness of
about two cards yeah you're so good
photography or something because it's
like usually I have to leave them in
like the larger adapters so that I'd
write and oh yeah so what are you
shooting with you're shooting with GoPro
and no not even GoPro anymore sorry but
even just like drones and stuff whenever
yeah they're all micro-st yeah so I can
just go like it's just a random little
thing that I thought I would show you
because I did need a bunch of SD cards
for what I'm doing okay and I didn't
want to lose track of what's what so
then the next thing that we encountered
last week when I was looking at the Nano
PI m4 was power power how am I going to
give it more power in here because it
requires four amps right my best
Raspberry Pi power adapter that's USB
hmm it's 2.1 not enough not nearly as we
discovered last week right start looking
around and I say Amazon because hey I've
got Prime and I needed it fast and and
it usually has a pretty great selection
so I started looking around for
different power supplies I couldn't find
a good 4 amp power supply I found some
neat units that were like that were
multi charger devices that you can plug
in like six phones to okay and it's like
20 amps and things like that
yeah then you read the fine print and
it's like it's 1.4 amps per port okay
right but it's got 10 ports or something
you know whatever it happens to work out
to head it up wait - yeah so that didn't
work out and so I'm like okay what am I
gonna do and then I remembered remember
when Bill Marshall was here on the set
yes and we pulled out this device that I
got at camp five dot TV slash ATX yes
and this device allows you to convert an
ATX power supply into a DC power unit I
see where this is going yes so I'm gonna
disconnect this from the power supply
cuz I want you to see what I invented I
know right so Henry just so you're aware
just to get you caught up yeah
cap 5 TV slash ATX you plug in a
standard power supply from a computer
right and right in there ATX it's in the
name there you go then it's got fuses
and even a power switch and it has
negative 12 volt positive 12 volt 5 volt
and 3.3 volt with rounds and they're on
these pegs
okay so I'll tell you the one thing that
I discovered that I did
know about this is that it is not
compatible with banana plugs it looks
like it is but you can't actually put a
banana plug in there so I removed the
terminals and I went and put my banana
plugs on it to basically give it a an
upgrade but the hole for the screw is
just a little bit too small for my
sockets so so I couldn't do that so
instead I had to just put a little bit
of wire so I've got a couple of spools
of wire here and I did a good soldering
job yes I'm going to show you a close-up
of what I've actually done here and
achieved so remember this is pulling
from my power supply like a computer
power supply it's 600 watts that means I
have 120 amps to work with so then I've
got a power switch here to turn it on
and off but here's where the magic
happens five volt terminals okay so
that's like a Raspberry Pi or any five
volt single board computer going out to
these wires and then tada a USB jack so
I can plug any five volt USB into there
and I have 120 amps to work with so
creativity powers up vm4 like a boss I
might have to get like 20 more m4s with
the amount of power that I'm the table
that explains everything does it yes
when I came in the table wow you did
such a good job oh thank you you know so
pleased with the way that this turned
out so that came as so I've talked about
this before and I actually had this
discussion with Bill and said you know
on Amazon or when I have to order parts
I have to order 20 of them I actually
went to sale here in town
yeah and said do you have that I wanted
I wanted a port like that yeah and they
actually didn't have one really yeah
they didn't have one and the guy who was
working there said we should have this
and I said yeah
because I only wanted one right
thankfully bill I bought them in bulk
because had I bought one hmm I did ruin
the first one that I tried to solder oh
yeah all right so pro yet but I'm
learning so this one is just - it's for
my memory box
yeah first and remind me how far I've
come so it's just got it's got USB jacks
it's got all of the the like you know
yeah it's just it's got all that stuff
so this was like 20 bucks and I ended up
with 10 jacks
and 10 plugs so I can actually make us
plugs as well
so that's how that came about so we've
got enough amperage to power as many
single board computers and whatever
single board computer that we want 5
volt over these terminals and that's
what we're doing tonight so this is a
two week feature at its heart but this
week and and I say at its heart because
I know it could evolve from there right
we're constantly receiving new hardware
we're constantly looking at new hardware
it's coming up on Christmas season and
so we know that new single board
computers are coming out Raspberry Pi
just announced a new one right and you
know so there there are gonna be more as
well so right now today this week we are
looking at a Raspberry Pi 3 model b+ we
also have out of its case this is a and
I should probably get in here so that
you can see these so Raspberry Pi 3 B+
in the alley
is it the Aled we know I think it's
called case I really like this case
anyways if you're interested oh there it
is Ella do we know that's right again
they're off of Amazon but I really like
the solid aluminum body and they're
really well built so that's the
Raspberry Pi 3 model b+ then I have the
rock pro 64 this is one that we've never
fired up before but we did the unboxing
Henry this has it's got the full GPIO
it's got some headers for Wi-Fi and
things like that it's got video out the
wazoo
it's got Gigabit Ethernet barrel plug
for power
it's got full-sized HDMI 4k 30 it's got
USB 3 USB 2 everything that you could
hope for
Wow but also it's got PCI Express which
blows my mind on a sing
bored computer so we're gonna be
benchmarking this today as well and
powering that then also from pine
sixty-four we've got the LTS the a 64
LTS this one has the Wi-Fi module on it
we're gonna fire it up and give it a
good test that's another nice board I'm
gonna tell you more about the
specifications as we go and the rock 64
so we're this is the rock pro 64 look at
the difference okay so this is like the
form factor of a Raspberry Pi this one
is like twice that size that's the rock
64 so basically we have three boards
from Pine 64 and we have one Raspberry
Pi 3 model B+ all right so I'm gonna
explain something that came about this
week that I'm really quite excited about
please do the giggles yeah at the end of
last week's show yeah just had the the
casual conversation where it was like
there are a lot of benchmarks out there
mm-hmm I can pull up benchmarks of the
Raspberry Pi 3 I can pull up benchmarks
of the rock pro 64 but the problem is is
that the PI 3 at its price point is
really cheap 30 35 bucks for a model B
B+ I mean and so how can I possibly
compare that to say the rock pro 64
that's 80 bucks right so even if it
performs better which it would because
you'd expect it would how does it
compare yeah well what the bang for the
buck and I get it all the time you can't
call this a Raspberry Pi killer because
it's so much more expensive right right
but then so the giggles what came about
as the conversation that we had last
week how can we compare these cost wise
value wise right actually so a new
algorithm has been created and it's it's
basically a pseudo currency to allow us
to see the value of a single board
computer it's called giggles and it
takes the benchmarks and it takes the
dollar value whatever we pump into the
benchmark tool of that
Engelberg computer then as its
benchmarking it calculates averages it
figures out based on the price what is
the actual value of this board when
compared to the performance of the board
right so a giggle value is not at all a
dollar value so something with a really
high giggle value doesn't mean it's very
expensive it could be a very cheap
single board computer however based on
the performance that it has how does it
compare to the dollars that you spend
right so also a really expensive single
board computer with very low performance
would have a low giggle no right low /
for exercise if it had low performance
it would have a very high good because
so let me okay explain to me if it does
well is they'll lower high giggle low
low because because the giggle value is
like if I was to compare cost to
performance yes I want to know what the
cheapest board is so the giggle value
you the cheaper it is the more value
there is in that board okay you want
love can I give you a really really
simple example that everybody will
understand yes let's here's that here's
a hypothetical single board computer it
cost me $10 mm-hmm and it has a
performance of 2,000 events per second
okay and let's just say it has a giggle
value of 80
okay so 80 giggles okay so then take the
next one now watch the simple math I'm
gonna double the the valve what I
actually had to pay in US dollars it
cost me $20 it has a performance
benchmark of 4,000 events per second hmm
it too has an 80 giggle score because
dollar-for-dollar
you've doubled the price you've doubled
the performance it's exactly the same
giggle value as one that's half price
okay so that's the same range right
exactly
now we've got an accurate comparison
that we can take a Raspberry Pi at $35
and we can compare it to that Rock pro
64 at $80 and the giggle value will now
tell us which one is the best value okay
by looking at that score and the lower
the score the better the value good so
we've got these four single board
computers we are going to benchmark them
and look at their giggle value right
after this for a limited time get your
hands on limited-edition shirts from the
category 5 TV network these high quality
shirts are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts
[Music]
yeah we're gonna benchmark that yeah
should we get into it you guys ready
we're gonna take a look at the
benchmarks of these four single board
computers again I've got the Raspberry
Pi three model B plus I've got the rock
64 from Pine sixty-four I've got the ia
64 LTS from Pine 64 as well as their
Rock pro 64 single board computer
beautiful stuff so what I've actually
done is before the show I recorded this
so that we could do a four up benchmark
and if we're ready we're gonna jump
right into it so here we go in the top
left hand side well you see the rock pro
64 there in the top right top left is
the Raspberry Pi three model B plus
lower left is the rock 64 and then next
to that and the bottom right is the so
pine or the a 64 LTS so let's let those
benchmarks run now what we're using is a
tool called cat 5 TV - SBC test and what
that does is it runs some some
benchmarks and then run some comparisons
to give us the giggle value don't worry
I'm gonna zoom in as soon as one of
these completes the a 64 LTS has
finished and it's giggle value is 75 65
so 75 point six five giggles the
Raspberry Pi 3 model B+ on the other
hand is still going and still going and
the other two have already finished as
well the rock 64 in rock pro 64 I'm
gonna go over those numbers
unfortunately they flashed by on the
screen but don't worry I can fix that in
post the rock 64 completed its test and
was the fastest to complete the test
which was surprising the rock 64 being
only a four core single board computer
just like the pine a 64 LTS and the PI
model three
or b-plus sorry I got distracted cuz
that is a three hundred and fifty point
nine zero giggles that's the Raspberry
Pi 3 model b-plus so let's look at them
in the order in which they completed
okay Rach 64 completed it it's tests
first the benchmarks completed on this
board first okay this has 4 cores four
gigs of RAM keep in mind that I bought
Kingston SD cards and they all match
every single board computer is using
exactly the same brand speed model of
cars yes absolutely there is some some
control there and giggle values
incidentally do not take into account I
oh so that's important to note as well
because if you were using emmc you don't
want it to give you poorly
giggle value so this board here had a
cpu result of 1420 to events per second
which is a giggle value of about 113
giggles okay then it's also tested
against RAM performance Ram results are
astonishing Ram is super fast
well the RAM result here was 1 million
nine hundred and eighty four thousand
five hundred forty eight events per
second that brings the giggle value down
to only eight for that hundreds of a
giggle Wow eight one hundreds of the
giggle so basically if you were looking
at u.s. dollars would be like eight
cents right the mutex result was 71
point eight four six and the total
giggle cost for this board is
astonishing the giggle cost for this
board remember this 51 point three seven
giggles fifty okay 51 point three seven
Wow
so hold on to that in the back of your
mind 51 point three seven for this one
now moving along the rock pro 64 which I
actually thought would finish first
right but the CPU the CPU performance of
this was fantastic but the RAM
performance was quite a bit less than
the rock 64 okay surprising that's
interesting mm-hm
so the CPU result was about twice
that of the rock 64 two thousand eight
hundred and ninety-seven point 207 and I
should just say so this board is $80
okay okay this one is I'm gonna have to
oh sorry I'm looking at my notes here 45
okay $45 dollars yes don't worry I got I
got all my numbers that's right we got a
guy this one's 80 okay so moving along
Ram on this as I mentioned is quite a
bit slower than this surprisingly eight
eight hundred fifteen thousand seven
hundred fifty eight point five one nine
events per second right still huge but a
lot slower than the rock 64 that gives
it a giggle value of about 0.35 giggles
versus the zero point oh five right
right so keep her Oh 8 that one was the
mute x value of this one was nineteen
point three oh three events per second
and that gives this one a giggle cost of
eighty one giggles okay so this one
looking at the giggle value this one
costs more than the rock 64 as far as
performance to price yes dollars ratio
right
however the CPU performance so it's
important to gauge this and understand
okay so this one is better value for the
dollar yeah but if you don't mind
spending the extra dollars this one is
twice as fast when it comes to CPU
processing so keep that in mind
right you got to remember that this was
gauging everything but the giggles gives
us a little bit of extra knowledge next
up and it's no surprise the the
Raspberry Pi 3 model B plus came in last
place the a 64 LTS finished up with a
CPU result of nine hundred and eighty
seven events per second not anything to
write to get upset about I mean we're
going to see that's significantly faster
than a Raspberry Pi which we're going to
find in just a few moments which is
interesting because I don't get burned
by the YouTube community who says oh
well you know that's more expensive but
I think we should note that this is
actually cheaper than a Raspberry Pi 3
B+
it is Raspberry Pi model yeah model B
plus of the Raspberry Pi 3 is $35 this
one is $32 us mm-hmm okay so keep that
in mind and with that in mind are you
ready for the RAM performance two
million two million one hundred and
sixty three thousand four hundred and
eighty four point four three three
events per second which brings its it
will value down to only 0.05 giggling on
the RAM benchmark right and then the
mutexes mmm three point two nine four
events per second not that great on the
mutex but the giggle cost of this is
less than the rock pro 64 this one is
only seventy five point six five giggles
based on our benchmark Wow
so it's again we've got a scenario where
with this
this one is slower than the rock 64 the
CPU benchmarks you know is that it's
about four hundred events per second
less than the rock 64 but we're looking
at a difference of thirteen dollars so
this is $13 cheaper exactly so where
where's the toss-up right but at seventy
five point six five giggles that's a
very good value remember to the rock pro
or the rock sixty-four was only 51 point
three seven now the pi3 model b+ so this
is the latest and greatest raspberry pi
the fastest that they've got now we've
got this new one that's coming available
but it's not here yet this one has one
gigabyte of ram all right nothing to
write home about I mean these boards are
all four gigabytes of RAM yeah the rock
pro is it four gigs
yeah I'm pretty sure that we've got a
four gig model but this one only has one
gig of ram so that's the Raspberry Pi so
this one is interesting because it's
it's the benchmark yes oh I like this is
this was the first yeah this is the one
that everybody has and and loves and we
love it as well so don't don't get the
wrong impression but I want to be
realistic about the fact that there are
other vendors out there and we're
looking at pine 64 tonight and we're
realizing that they're performed
is significantly better for the money
hmm
yes you pay more for a rock 64 at $45
than you do for a Raspberry Pi model B
plus Raspberry Pi 3 at $35 right so this
one's $10 more but let's look at the
specification exactly CPU results it's
brutally slow oh it's brutal oh no like
this slowest to the bunch yeah I'm
talking the PI in 64 a 64 LTS we're kind
of like that's pretty slow at 987 events
per second and then 125 okay so that
gives it a giggle value of 1002 giggles
too many on the CPU so the CPU on this
is extremely expensive and giggle values
right but it makes up for it with pretty
fast round really well on the RAM
benchmarks two million four hundred and
eighteen thousand five hundred and
eighty-one events per second which is
going to offset that really high CPU
benchmark because it's only 0.05 giggles
which is the same as the a 64 LTS as far
as the giggle value right yeah so it's
faster but we can see that the value is
exactly the same dollar for dollar this
one's $32 thirty-five dollars this is
exactly the same value ram wise as this
one but this one the cpu underperforms
Wow and is very high here so the cost is
too high for the CPU performance of this
one new text result is eighty five point
three four five events per second which
is pretty good
that's 0.15 giggles yeah and the final
giggle score so let's before I say the
final score for the Raspberry Pi three
model B+ mm-hmm this one's giggle score
this is the rock 64 from Pine 6450 1.37
giggles a very good value again when
compared when comparing performance to
the US dollar about cost right well we
buy Rock pro 64 81 giggles still
excellent value
a 64 LTS this one is seventy five point
six five
giggles and at 32 US dollars it's
actually a very good value for those who
have said oh well but the rock 64 is
more expensive than the Raspberry Pi 3
b+ so it can't possibly be a Raspberry
Pi killer the Raspberry Pi 3 model b+
clocked 350 point 9 giggles almost 350
holy that ladies and gentlemen in my
eyes makes the rock 64 from Pine 64 a
Raspberry Pi killer Wow not talking
about the education sector that's very
PI but saying for me who I already
understand the GPIO I already understand
Python our do you understand how to set
up a single board computer the best
value for the money is the rock 64 from
pine 64 the Raspberry Pi is cheaper
dollar-for-dollar $10 cheaper right but
performance wise this one has a giggle
value of 50 1.37 this one is three
hundred and fifty point nine is the cost
so this is significantly less for way
better performance incredible I think
that's great to see it means that people
are innovating and means that yes we're
going on and we're seeing a lot of
innovation from other vendors now
raspberry pi is disappointing right now
with their for now yes for now we're all
waiting for the raspberry pi 4 and when
I say that I mean there are I know that
there are a lot of Raspberry Pi fans and
we can we all love them I love them too
oh yeah
but I am realistic about the quality of
the competition exactly and the
performance of the competition and the
value for dollar for dollar right okay
so our top two this week are the rock 64
and the rock pro 64 from Pine 64 next
week we are going to put those two
against the Odroid xu4 queue which is a
an 8 core single board for me right of
course yeah sure it's either 6 or 8 but
I'm pretty sure we're gonna find out we
find out and we're also going to put
that against the Nano
I am for which we wanted to look at last
week as well we're gonna power that from
this bad boy and we're gonna do all the
benchmarks again next week these ones
are already done but we're gonna be able
to see ultimately what is the best value
single board computer here at the end of
2018 so as you're looking at Christmas
lists and things like that thank you for
saying I want a Raspberry Pi or I want a
single board computer I want to learn
stem and start working on building my
own little microcomputer well this is a
great opportunity for you to see where's
the where's the sweet spot and that's
exactly what we've set out to do you can
get your own benchmark tool by going to
github.com slash cat 5 TV slash cat 5 TV
- SBC test that is below and I hope that
you find that very useful tonight we've
used version 1.0 and each board has used
exactly the same version so that we have
a one-to-one comparison the same thing
will happen next week there you go there
you have it that is cool Wow yeah
thoughts questions and concerns comment
below let us know what you think I have
a question yeah okay so I play retro
games right now on my single board
computer that's good can I just do that
with that can I go yeah mm-hmm and it
would just be faster yeah yeah it would
be incredible for a Raspberry Pi 3
handles 1080p pretty good good sorry
both of these these boards 4k 60p plus
they have the higher performance plus
they have other options for storage one
thing about these is that they both
support emmc
instead of G which is a different type
of storage okay so where for this test
we used SD cards for all of our micro
computers right SD cards are quite slow
in comparison to like an SSD drive yeah
or in this case e MMC or an MDOT - or
things like that so EMC is like a step
up as far as the single board computer
hard drive goes okay it's gonna give you
even better
io or input-output performance so
things are gonna load faster things are
gonna be a lot quicker that you're gonna
do really really well with the MMC both
of those boards support it Raspberry Pi
does not got it okay thank you yeah
that's another thing they're more value
we don't even talk about features just
like that
do they have GPIO yes they have Pi GPIO
so they're actually compatible yep
40 pin so exciting well I guess it's
time to head over to the newsroom
excellent can you believe we got here
already Wow this our fly ina love this
stuff man no cool too fun alright here
are the stories were covering this week
in the category 5 TV newsroom Mark
Shuttleworth has revealed that a boon to
18 point o4 will get a 10-year support
lifespan a database leak exposed
millions of two-factor codes and reset
links sent by SMS and video stocks have
dropped to the worst it's been in 10
years and NASA has successfully tested
osiris-rex his robotic arm ahead of its
arrival at a giant asteroid millions of
miles away these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere this is the
category 5 TV newsroom covering the
week's top
with Linux by us Jeff Westen
Gemma you're building a brand-new
beautiful website what
aren't you your terrible actor what this
we're acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash DreamHost I'm
Sachi Rickman and here are the top
stories were following this week Mark
18.04 will get a ten year support
lifespan at OpenStack summit in Berlin
canonical and a boon to founder Mark
Shuttleworth said in a keynote that a
boon to 18 point o4 s long-term support
lifespan would be expect extended from 5
years to 10 years a boon to 18.04
released in April 2018 while the abuti
desktop gets most of the ink most of
Canonical's dollars come from server and
cloud customers it's for these corporate
users canonical first extended to boon
twos 12.04 security support than aboon
twos 14 point oh four support and now
preemptively Ubuntu 18 point oh four in
an interview after the keynote
shuttleworth said a boon to is sixteen
point oh four which is scheduled to
reach its end of life in April 20-21
will also be given a longer support
lifespan Shuttleworth also said in his
keynote that in the past two years
canonical had been getting a Red Hat
customers coming a boon to sway he
explained that companies have been
coming to canonical not to replace
existing Red Hat Enterprise Linux or
openshift deployments but to expand into
new technology areas such as the
Internet of Things edge computing and
machine learning or artificial
intelligence however shuttleworth
foresees IBM buying Red Hat may lead the
customers switching to a boon to he says
we're we're neutral on the public cloud
we
work at an arm's length with AWS Azur
and Google we provide a common currency
across different environment but we're
not the lowest common denominator we
want to be the best operating system on
Azur for Azur and AWS for AWS and so on
he also disclosed the canonical is still
aiming at going public in 2019 this is
not a on a set schedule instead it will
happen when the company meets the
metrics he's set before canonical IPOs
he plans on bringing in growth equity
from private equity companies
Shuttleworth has started talking with
private equity advisors to get things
ready to bring in a cash infusion so
all-in-all shuttleworth sees a bright
future ahead for both canonical and is
underlying a boon to Linux container and
cloud technologies well it really sounds
like he's stepped down hasn't it he has
bought such ambition and such confidence
and I like it yes yes yes I am excited
for them to go public I know that he's
set at the standard high but when he
goes public that means I can buy stocks
right in the company and I would I would
feel really good buying stocks in his
company because I know how much he cares
exactly right so and and he's a
visionary yeah and I love visionaries
who actually take action and he is he's
proven that when he when he was on our
show back like season 3 season 4 years
ago no he he canonical was young and and
compared to what it is now and Mark said
that he was working toward bringing
Ubuntu to the phone platform making that
happen and he did and it failed but it
was a an effort that made ripples in the
Linux landscape right and is now even
now right now and into 2019 making
changes even though canonical has put
that aside mm-hmm it's happening right
we're seeing Linux on the smartphone
we're seeing Linux on the tablet it's
kind of planted the seed
absolutely and created some code yeah
excellent code so for for him extending
the support lifespan yeah does that
bring that like for me it would bring
more confidence to me it because I know
now I will have to switch would you have
to sweet you're an user right so if if
you as an end-user install Ubuntu Linux
on your computer mm-hmm and then it
comes to end-of-life it's pretty easy to
modify your your sources list to the
next version do an apt update an app
upgrade followed by an apt dist
upgrade and it will roll up to the next
version of a Buddha - okay however in
enterprise environments so we're talking
big business banking and cloud
infrastructure and Ubuntu canonical or
big on cloud infrastructure in those
businesses it's really hard to upgrade
an upgrade and upgrade a roll up and
roll up and roll up and reboot servers
and it's really dumb so having a really
good long-term support means a couple of
things first of all hmm the rolling
release cycle of fixes and patches and
security things are going to continue
for many many years ten years ten years
imagine if I installed an operating
system on my server and I know that it
has the latest and greatest security
patches for the next ten years that's
what he's proposing right that's what
he's doing
that lowers blood pressure and it makes
things a lot easier from the IT
standpoint it gives us peace of mind and
it saves our company a ton of money yeah
so I think that's really the target of
that move not the end user not the
person running it on their laptop
because you can easily backup your home
folder reinstall the brand-new version
or do a roll up using apt right but it's
the cyber environment is the clouds as
your platforms the virtual appliances
the Internet of Things how can I upgrade
the OS in my in my fridge smart
like who knows why that's what he's
pushing towards so imagine you buy a
toaster that's smart and is powered by
Ubuntu now and it has security patches
for ten years
so as these exploits come out for smart
devices which we're hearing a lot more
about so totally yeah they can push out
security patches for those devices for
ten more years they're for the president
those companies are going to invest in
boob-tube
exactly I will buy stuff nicely I will
tell you that now mark go buy stocks
database leak exposed millions of
two-factor codes and reset links set by
sent by SMS millions of SMS text
messages mainly containing one-time pass
codes password reset links and plain
text passwords were exposed in an
Internet accessible database that could
be read or monitored by anyone who knew
where to look the discovery comes after
years of rebukes from security
practitioners that text messages are a
woefully unsuitable medium for
transmitting two-factor authentication
data despite those reviews SMS based 2fa
continues to be offered by banks such as
Bank of America cellular carriers such
as t-mobile and a host of other
businesses
the leaky database belonged to Vox ox a
service that claims to process billions
of calls and text messages monthly the
database stored texts that were sent
through a gateway Vox Hawks provided to
businesses that wanted an automated way
to send data for password resets and
other types of account management by SMS
the database provided a portal that
showed two-factor codes and recent links
being sent near in near real time making
it potentially possible for attackers
who accessed the server to obtain data
that would help them hijack other
people's accounts the database ran on
Amazon's elastic search and was
configured with Cabana front-end to make
the phone numbers names and other
contents easy to browse and search box
Hawks locked down the database after
TechCrunch privately reported the issue
prior to informing the public of their
findings
yikes so oh yeah let's put a front end
on this dad
let's make it easy to search okay so two
factor authentication mm-hmm I trust it
right like I have it for my Steam
account and so when I go to log into my
schemas yes when I go I'll I try to log
into my Steam and then it says enter
your your passcode and then I get a text
and that was my passcode and it changes
every time and I temp I type it in and
so is this what the story is talking
about yes but I think the only reason
this would be an issue is if the
provider sending the SMS before the 2fa
do factor authentication code doesn't
expire those codes this is true when I'm
dealing with my bank my two-factor
authentication code expires after 30
seconds right so if I do not use it if I
do not log in immediately I won't be
able to use that code yeah request the
login exactly and remember this is
two-factor authentication this is not
something that somebody could go into
your online banking hacking this
database and enter your info and then
access the two-factor authentication
code because they don't know your
password so they'd have to know your
password first that's the first factor
authentication right username password
right then and then so I can trust
two-factor authentication by and large
well I hope that your provider expires
those tokens how would I know that I
don't know that you can I think security
practice so like I just have to hope
that somebody like was it TechCrunch or
like I just want to revealed right so if
they revealed it that means that they're
aggressively searching out issues I just
have to trust in them that I do track on
it yeah
and finding all of the promo know
they're there
magazine yeah so then who finds out when
there's a problem white hat hackers okay
yeah words black hat hackers Dada well
you have a few ways of like solving the
problem right cuz like a lot of things
like he said for steam house you Proctor
authentication right there's other sites
like Facebook whatever you could there's
actual apps I can use as well you like
with steam if you log in on your
computer your actual mobile app handles
everything so it stays within like that
the valve corporation so today I have to
go to ok cell provider in the first
place same with Facebook right so it
stays within their app ecosystem aha as
soon as like you send your data out
somewhere else
onto different server yes yeah and
that's where I get scared because like I
know in lots of ways I'm I'm not like
the most educated person but stuff like
this so I trust you factor out situation
because it feels like it's an extra step
so then because there's the extra step I
just feel like ok well I'm good if you
need your phone in order to write yeah
how can anyone else log in without your
phone right so this is where I'm finding
a heart like every time I do a news
story where there's a data leak or
there's a security blunder of some sort
I think to myself okay well this not
that it doesn't affect me but that I can
see how I can change things I can change
my password on my router I can change a
right but in this case I trust very
heavily in two factor authentication
yeah so token-based using a device you
can actually buy devices that will show
you a number that expires after 30
seconds those are ways to do it ESET
secure authentication is a server
application that you can install that
accesses your Active Directory and it
allows you to use one of those devices
on various platforms and you know
there's so much that can be done in big
business but for us novice users just
trying to get access to our online
banking we do kind of have to trust that
they're doing it
right who reminds us about smartphones
sim cloning which is another issue where
and even SIM fraud in that someone we've
you've mentioned it before someone can
go into AT&amp;T and Sasha Rickman and I
lost my phone and I need to activate
this new phone so give me a new sim yes
and then they do and they fall for that
social engineering and I think it again
comes down to education and it's we're
in this transitional time where things
aren't perfect sash we've got to be real
smart real careful watch your accounts
but it's it's really hard even like even
last week as I was leaving the show I
got a weird tax it turns out it was safe
but because it was just a text message
and it said yeah why call me I want to
talk to you about Christmas and then
there was like a little emoji but the
number wasn't saved in my phone and was
an emoji of Santa right so who wanted to
talk about Christmas it could have been
anybody and didn't mention who they were
anything reply or no they've got your
info exactly but it it was one of these
family members who who has my number but
I don't have their number saved in so
luckily I went home and I checked but
before I left here I asked I asked is
this something I should respond to I'd
be very wary exactly yeah cuz you should
I don't normally receive text from that
person never that was the first one
be careful NVIDIA stock has dropped to
the worst it's been in ten years NVIDIA
lost a gigantic twenty three billion
dollars in market cap in a single
24-hour period on Friday dropping more
than thirty percent why while there are
many reasons with some claiming it was
the cryptocurrency mining bubble popping
but it seems the various issues with the
newly launched GeForce RTX series being
the center focus for Nvidia right now
Nvidia stock dropped heavily after the
company posted their q3 earnings report
which saw the company missing revenue
estimates
the sales channel is filled with GTX ten
series graphics cards and the overpriced
r-tx series that seems to have fallen
flat with gamers there have been many
problems with the RT X cards and there
aren't that many gamers that really take
advantage of the features then games
with RT x support like battlefield 5 are
plagued with issues and underwhelming
performance see NBC's Jim Cramer says in
videos Nvidia made a serious misjudgment
about the level of demand for their
product and after that Nvidia is in the
penalty box for a very long time that's
rough so it's a lot of money if it has
to do with cryptocurrency mining yeah
because this is what happened right like
stock of cards was like depleted yeah
because people were crypto mining
they're buying cards and now there's no
cards available for gamers so if that's
the case so Nvidia will flood the market
with cards and cards that work very well
for crypto mining yeah they know who
they're trying to appeal to right right
and then if that mining bubble stops
well here's the thing too is that Nvidia
card it's like there's such fine-tuned
machines that when you try to get like
100 thousands of them produced at a time
you're rushing them all it takes is for
to forget one little wire like one
little something and exact one cold
solder chip
that sucks yeah I think once you've
bought your card like I've got my cards
and I'm not going out and buying another
one mm-hmm but I bought during the boom
right I bought just before the boom I
got like a 1060 just before like I
really got like huge I want to go back
and get a 1080 you got a 1070 like it
went up in price immediately after rx
560 yeah it's just it's hard for a
second
it's hard for a company like that
because I feel like they're actually
like they're a great company it's just
another stock is plummeted so what do
they have to you once you lose twenty
three billion dollars 1 billion dollars
a lot of kraft dinner nasa has
successfully tested a Cyrus Rex's
robotic arm ahead of its arrival at a
giant asteroid millions of miles away
NASA's spacecraft is Cyrus Rex is
nearing its destination and it's
starting to stretch out the craft
successfully tested its touch-and-go
sample acquisition mechanism which is
tags am a robotic arm that will allow it
to grab samples from the surface of the
asteroid Bennu
according to the two NASA the test run
went as planned
osiris-rex with the help of engineers
from Lockheed Martin showed off the full
range of motion of its arm it flexed its
shoulder elbow and wrist joints all
while hurtling through space the test
success was confirmed by telemetry data
and photos captured by an onboard camera
take Sam will be essentially for a Cyrus
Rex to complete its mission the craft
will use the robotic arm to collect a
couple of ounces of loose dirt and rock
from the surface of venue researchers
hope that the sample of regolith from
the carbon-rich space rock might hold
some hints about the beginning of the
solar system and the begin and the
building blocks of life
osiris-rex is expected to reach vanu on
december 3rd it will spend two years
studying and mapping the 1,650 foot
asteroid before finally scooping up the
sample it was sent to retrieve then it
will make its way back to earth the
spacecraft is expected back on this
planet in 2023 in the meantime it's
already sent back some pretty impressive
photos from its trip three million miles
away
wouldn't be disappointing if they're
just like this is just dirt yeah for the
day like a hundred years from now or
it's just like it's commonplace just to
go up to space it's be like oh it's got
like some like dirt and brought it home
although it has an awesome name
Rex yeah I really want to do a follow-up
story on this in 2020 you just said set
yourself a 2023 memo like reminder just
a reminder so that we can come back and
be like so Cyrus Rex is returned is it
tans space just want to be sure before I
say it aloud hacking into the yeah
satellites future me dot org o dear
future me dot org write a letter to the
future okay I would like I would like to
do a follow-up on this story because I
would like to know what happens upon
return I want to know was just dirt it
had microorganisms that took out the
human race
okay yeah that's right or I saw what was
that it was a movie and there was though
really weird
we're gonna bring movies into this I
don't know okay I'm not gonna be able to
describe probably it was a movie about
like aliens and language
do you remember and there was a wait oh
yeah it's one word one word and it had a
girl in it yeah not arrival it's like
it's something like but it's about
language everybody comment below
they're like the big rock ships and I
remember the poster was like this
spaceship that's like this and then it's
like what's a dear future me what's that
movie with the alien so let's say we
bring back some dirt from veneer and we
like create these like cool
extraterrestrial like antibiotics or
something what could come of this and
and it's like okay it's cool it's
research science you got the answer
right little arrival I knew it was like
you
oh yeah it was one word and it had a
girl in it I want I want this thing I
want Mars you want Mars busy right now
it's gonna be two and a half hours of
waiting for this thing to just get a cup
of dirt yeah but that cup of dirt can
help us with technology space junk
flying that's like me saying you just
sit at your desk typing on the keyboard
all day like that's all I do but you do
more than the Ackles
right it's going up there and it's going
to check the surface of this asteroid
and it's gonna bring back a sample of
not earth dirt which is different
because all the dirt we've ever seen is
earth dirt so I mean it might be exactly
the same but in that there will still be
like a lot of information but what if
there's like water on that there will
not be what you never know it's an
element right highways there's no water
we've got the water where the blue
planet yeah but where's the Mars there
are little plants what it what if it's
like a little tea guy and he said I
couldn't hear me now good man he's just
floating away
I don't know I'm picturing those those
little creatures in Toy Story
it's a perfect b-roll footage just like
the actual I really like it yeah I also
think that if anybody's out there just
naming a kid or a pad or something venue
it's actually a really great asteroid
name
big thanks to Sol boo Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-5 TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm
Henry Bailey Brown thank you so much for
being here with us this week once again
folks don't forget next week we're going
to be putting these two the rock 64 in
the rock pro 64 up against and Odroid
xu4 q as well as a nano PI Emma for
exciting you don't want to miss that
take care everybody don't forget to
check out our website category 5 TV of
course Black Friday this week and those
sales are kind of going on coming up
both ends of Friday
that's channel if you're if you're a
little late to the party or a little
early they're going on check out our
partner links it's a way that you can
support category 5 TV just by shopping
by when you click those links it's a
cool way to support us you're gonna shop
online anyways so we'll get a cut and we
appreciate that thank you very much
thanks everybody have a great week and
we'll see you again next Wednesday night
[Applause]
