here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom IBM
just unveiled the world's smallest
computer the mind-reading alter ego
headset interacts with Alexa
telepathically the Linux beep command
can be exploited ahold plans to replace
Intel chips and will use its own custom
Mac chips beginning in 2020 these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
ok you're terrible actor what this where
acting comes into play I don't know
you're supposed to act ok I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap v dot TV slash DreamHost to
sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat 5 dot TV slash
DreamHost this
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux bias I'm Sasha Rickman and
here the top stories were following this
week if you thought the raspberry pie
was a small computer this will blow your
mind
IBM just unveiled the world's smallest
computer and it measures just one
millimeter by one millimeter IBM hopes
to pioneer the technologies that could
change our lives in the next five years
therefore IBM is now building the
world's smallest computer details are
still sparse but there is enough info to
get excited about the computer is one
millimeter by one millimeter in size
smaller than a grain of rock salt and
apparently cost less than 10 cents to
manufacture let's put that into context
be honest
you thought it was tiny when you saw
this picture but what you need to
realize is that this picture is actually
of a chip that holds 64 motherboards on
each of those motherboards there are two
of these tiny computers from IBM yes
pictured here are 128 of the computers
oh there's an actual photo of the
computer here's an actual photo of the
computer on a pile of salt to give you
some scale the last world's smallest
computer to make a big splash was the
Michigan micro mote a in 2015 which was
twice the size of this computer
feature-wise the computer has a
processor with several hundred thousand
transistors SRAM memory and a
photovoltaic cell for power and a
telecommunications unit that uses LED
and a photo detector to talk with the
outside world
IBM claims the computer has the power of
an x86 chip from 1990 that puts it
exactly on the edge of enough power to
run the original doom IBM's actual
application for this chip seems mostly
centered on supply chain management and
counterfeit protection enter the
blockchain buzz this the chip is just
one of many crypto anchors that IBM is
developing for this purpose
and now we wait for more details on
ibm's plans for this the tiniest of
computers Wow
this is interesting because I get the
purpose of the computer but I have to
wonder how many people are gonna go at
crap I just lost my computer I just like
I get it for you know cat maybe with
some applications counterfeit protection
I'm confused about I guess you just put
a computer on everything Sasha on
episode 551 Robert Koenig was on the
show and do you remember him talking
about the the ability to use the
blockchain to verify that fruit is
actually organic and verify that things
are from the the actual Gucci
manufacturer not some knockoff in China
do you remember that discussion yes so
that would be like one of those little
computers is what would yes that because
the blockchain is a computer technology
so it requires a computer in order to
access it and run it imagine this like
I'm talking a one millimeter the size of
a grain of salt maybe a little smaller
that is a computer that is as powerful
as what we used to use back in the 90s
my mind is actually blown are there
other like crazy things we could do with
tiny small computers but oh I think the
sky's the limit I mean as we advanced
technology and you take something this
small I'm sure give it another couple of
years is gonna be a way to make
something that small even faster start
implementing that with you know say your
glasses to run a virtual screen so that
you know you can go all star trek with
that you know the glasses thing I mean
you've got stuff like that I mean I'm
thinking you know people that microchip
their pets how amazing would this be
that you know you stick the thing in the
dog's nose so that from now on Fido when
he comes to your house and sniffs the
door it picks up this computer chip
scans and goes oh it's
final open the doggy door so your house
can stay secure instead of this open
flap that anybody can get it I mean you
think of all the possibilities of this
and I'm thinking Scylla to medical stuff
you able to inject a very like a very
very tiny thing under the skin or into
the bloodstream or I don't know if if
that can be done I don't know I'm not a
doctor but I can see that being used
well I mean imagine it you know say you
throw one in each of you know the palm
you need the palm of your hand and on
the tips of your fingers and next thing
you know you have the ability to control
you know various technologies of your
house your car whatever because you have
these unique identifiers because you've
had these little micro computer I mean
anything it'll be like the newest trend
in piercing ten thousand of them all
mining Manero on a die this big that's
all you need that's not even imagine my
I can't my brain can't even I need I
need one of these little tiny computers
in my brain helping me with this yeah
it's very interesting for sure all right
the food thinks that input and output is
going to be the issue how can you
communicate with outside peripherals
such as you know it's not gonna have an
HDMI port right it's not gonna have the
capability to connect in a mouse and
these kinds of things but you think
about being able to program that chip to
do specific functions and then let it
loose and do to do its thing yet
cryptocurrency wouldn't take long to
have some sort of many Wi-Fi signal I
mean thinking with today's current
technology to have some sort of
interface like that were you doing
things wirelessly I mean you could take
a cell phone please in a way Wireless
because it's using the photo yeah
whatever I don't know the word pallet
voltaic I don't know that it uses so
basically it uses the flashing light in
order to receive and transmit data okay
well but take for instance like my watch
I have a Sam
you know gear fit and with a flashing
green light it measures my blood
pressure right and my pulse I mean and
that's just a light on my skin so I mean
imagine something like this would work
just as well so that's very cool yeah
you know what else is cool
this next story Wow I'm intrigued
the mind-reading alter ego headset
communicates with Alexa through
telepathy speaking to voice assistants
no matter how helpful they can be it's
still not something the majority of us
do on a daily basis especially in public
but what if you could speak to a voice
assistant only by thinking about the
words you want to say
considerably less embarrassing right
that's the basic concept behind the
alter ego a prototype mind-reading
wearable designed by researchers at MIT
how it works is extremely clever okay
it doesn't quite read your mind but
instead it reads something called
subvocalization this is the name given
to tiny almost imperceptible
neurological and muscular movements made
when we say words to ourselves inside
our head 16 electrodes on the prototype
alter ego headset sense
the changes and match these signals to
data inside a special neural network and
eventually activate whatever task it was
requested the headset also has a bone
conducting speakers which use your skull
to transmit sound into your inner ear
rather than actually putting an earbud
in the canal so you can remain aware of
the outside world while wearing it at
the moment the headset has 16 electrodes
and wraps around the side of your face
with a connection on the jaw in the back
of the neck however the team has seen
similar results from a model with only
four electrodes meaning it could easily
become much smaller so far the team has
conducted various experiments including
playing a game of chess while telling
the opponent's moves to the wearable
computer and getting potential return
moves spoken back cheating yes but a
clear demonstration
of what it can do additionally the
device can do simple math lead developer
on the project Aronoff Kapoor said the
idea behind alter-ego was to build an
internal computing platform that feels
like an internal extension of our own
cognition thesis adviser Patti Mayes
added that the headset could help us all
benefit from smartphones and the
internet without being closed off in the
world by looking down at a screen or
wearing earbuds that Starner a Georgia
Tech professor pointed out how helpful
silent speech would be in situations
where voices can't be heard people who
work in noisy environments for example
and those possibly including military
personnel who rely on hand gestures to
communicate when sound would give away
their position or even for people who
don't have the ability to speak at all
currently the alter ego is a prototype
used for research and not available to
buy but it's possible we could see the
technology being investigated here in
next-generation devices that will use as
regularly as we do smartphones today Wow
I feel like this is not new which sounds
very weird to say but I thought I heard
something like this in Toronto gonna say
five six years ago where there was a
professor who was working on
mind-reading technology to control
devices around his house and the intent
was to build something for people who
were quadriplegic okay so I don't I mean
maybe that was just a myth news story I
mean fake news never happens but you
know it's possible that this has already
been underway but this is a very unique
way of going but you know with the whole
idea of you know what I had heard about
being done for quadriplegics makes me
wonder could this be used for somebody
who's say in a coma so you've been in
some sort of an accident
there's no way to verbally connect with
you but there's enough research where
people have it's determined that even
though you're in a coma you can hear you
there is some sort of cognitive
and is there a way to interface with
somebody who is in that situation right
or even on the autism spectrum like
somebody who's sure
nonverbal right yeah I think it's
absolutely fascinating okay okay
but then on the other side and I'm doing
the Jeff other side thing now yeah the
dark side yeah if you could hack in or
if you could exploit and do some data I
don't know what they call it scraping or
something and you could find out what
people wearing these are thinking all
the time wouldn't that be really
beneficial to people you know what like
the case like I've heard of the bone
conductive audio on trains for
advertisers so that when people rest
their head up against the window they
can hear the ads
now there's no sound right but it uses
the bone conduction technology that this
uses too so what if they then translated
this technology into when you put your
head up against the window it can hear
your thoughts
right what I mean there's always gonna
be a concern that the techno and I in a
real I can't believe I'm actually
defending this but there's always gonna
be a concern the technology could be
used negatively but I mean I I see the
positives for something like this right
and I would hope that once it is
consumer available the price point is
not outlandish that is available for
people who could benefit from it and not
just something so expensive that's used
to exploit people but you do bring up a
good point and you know thinking about
the unconscious what about your dreams
if you're sleeping and you're dreaming
your dreams are not reality but is there
the possibility that this would
interface with the device to suddenly
impact your outside world because of
dreams and I think of what's that show
black mirror yes where they record your
thoughts and stuff could this be going
down that road okay this if a
hilariously reminds me of a news story
we did a week
or so where I can't remember it was it
was probably Microsoft banning you for
offensive language what about if you
have offensive thoughts like how big
does your filter have to be well then
we'll just be in George Orwell's 1984
yes my here's my final thought how would
this change the world and how Sasha
would this change John Krasinski's quiet
place the movie just took on a
completely different twist retro
programmers may need to reconsider using
Linux beep command as an activity or
progress alert one of the silliest bugs
on record emerged late last week when
Debian project leader Chris Lam took to
the distro security to post an advisory
that the little utility had a local
privilege escalating vulnerability the
utility lets either a command lined user
control the command line user control a
PC speaker or more usefully a program
can pipe the command out to the command
line to tell the user something's
happened if of course their machines
still have a beeper speaker which is
increasingly rare and raises the
question as to why the utility still
exists since beep isn't even installed
by default it's not hard to see why the
issue went unnoticed German security
researcher and journalist Hanna box at
alerted the OSS SEC list to further
issues on Sunday Bach listed an
information disclosure bug in which beep
opens arbitrary files for write as root
bypassing file permissions Debian's
Rhonda Devine wrote that this reveals
the existence of files normally hidden
from the user and said if a file has
side effects when open beep allows the
calling user to trigger those side
effects even if they are not authorized
to do so Jacob Wilk pointed out the
named pipes and tape devices are
affected box notes also linked to an
integer overflow and a bug in the patch
that's supposed to fix the original
issue as a result Bach wrote beep should
probably be discarded it needs a proper
code review and there isn't much point
to the effort for a tool talking to the
PC speaker which doesn't exist in most
modern systems anyway that is brutal why
how can beep have such a serious exploit
as that well maybe because nobody uses
it and so like what I just can't fathom
how a code that makes your computer
speaker beep gives root level access to
file systems that's a fail that's a big
fail it's not often we have a news story
where I kind of just go I'm I'm I'm the
other side of that where I'm
flabbergasted this is software that
allows your computer speaker to go deep
is it essential for anybody to still
have this does anybody use this you know
in a way that they can't just this
disposed of it can't I feel like they
can dispose of it but then there are the
purists who you know have been using
computers all their lives who when I
turn on my computer I like to hear that
beep I like to hear the PC speaker beep
that's it that's a bad beep now Robby
it's a very bad beep and if I hear it
you are exploitable that's ridiculous I
I have nothing I have literally nothing
to say about there's a guy honestly just
feel like perhaps it's time to just put
it to bed like don't fix the exploit
just get rid of the entirety like get
rid of this beep speaker beep the most
useless feature of your computer just
get rid of it exactly it's it's not it's
like get it remove your wisdom teeth and
get rid of your beeps me speaker
do both of those things in your life
problem solves but at least you can chew
food with your wisdom teeth but I mean
suddenly you've get access to files you
should very malicious beep ok apples
plans to replace Intel chips Apple plans
to replace Intel chips and will use its
own custom mac chips beginning in 2020
the new plan is part of an innovative
and innovative named Collett kalamata
which is expected to help all Apple
devices including Mac's iPhones and
iPads work more seamlessly together the
kalamata initiative will allow apple's
design and engineering teams to have a
much greater control over the power and
features they wish to implement Apple
already designs its own ARM based chips
that it uses in iPhones iPads watches
and Apple TV devices moving away from
Intel chips will allow Apple to freely
release new Mac models without having to
wait on new Intel chips the company will
also be able to produce new systems
without having to depend on when Intel
would be able to put new chips into
production the mac chip plans are said
to be in the early stages of development
and the transition to apple chips in the
hardware is likely to begin with laptops
such as the 12-inch MacBooks as early as
2020 so Apple is Apple just gonna take
and tell down
is that what no not gonna happen
it is Intel gonna suffer from I'm so
confused like you know ok so Intel won't
suffer if Apple withdraws no dangerous
atom in Intel is a phenomenal company
incredibly stable is this gonna have an
impact on their stocks probably but it's
not going to destroy the company but the
thing that I Apple is known for making
their own hardware they do everything
in-house I mean I have
a friend who works for Apple he patented
a new heat cooling fan like he had this
team of four of them and they came up
with a new way of making it smaller and
you know but that's what Apple does they
go I don't want anybody else's stuff I
want my own stuff I want you to not be
able to use anybody's stuff for my stuff
they put these walls around their
sandbox and nobody can play with their
sand
unless Apple decides to let you in to
play with their sand and that doesn't
happen this is just another Apple ism
this is what Apple does so I'm not
surprised by it a nobody I mean I think
it's going to drive the prices up Marsh
man reminds us in the chat room that it
means Apple going a hundred percent
proprietary absolutely it creates a
whole level of brand continuity that
nobody's going to be able to impede upon
because if Apple you know by 2020 is
completely standalone they do it all
themselves by keeping everything
contained within that sandbox they are
protected from any other company that
goes poof right and if Intel ever wet
puffs Apple would be in trouble but now
because they're doing the stand alone
they're going to be protected in that
sense but at the same time it also means
if there's ever an issue with Apple they
could go puff right because it's solely
on them they can't blame anybody well
exactly right they can't be like oh we
bought bad batteries right but I just I
mean I think this is going to drive the
point the price point up I mean as it is
right now people are mortgaging their
children in order to buy a new iPhone
people are so brand loyal if you think
you love this story yeah yeah I am not
personally but I won't way to go Apple
big thanks to Peter carve carve a Roy W
Nash and our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom i'm sasha
Rickman
[Applause]
[Music]
