for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
welcome to episode number 271 of
category 5 technology TV for tuesday the
27th of november 2012 hey hey don't
Christa pretty good idea weeks in a row
oh I know it's too much Christa or
Christians enough Christa to balance out
the Robbie it's like Chris Thomas kind
of like that yeah JJ I like that how are
you doing nice to see ya nice to have
everybody here we see a lot of friendly
folks in the chat room tonight saying hi
before the show we have an incredible
show plan tonight we've got a lot going
on whoo-whee we are going to be looking
at some brand new hardware from thermal
takes TT esports the product line that
they've developed some of the stuff
alongside of BMW so you know what's
sleek you know it's high quality stuff
stick around we're gonna be looking at
some of that in just a little bit also
we've got your viewer questions we've
got some websites that I want to go
through later on in the show as well as
we gear up toward where the Christmas
season we've got just a whole bunch of
stuff to show ya and so I'm really
excited about some of the things we're
gonna be going over tonight mm-hmm a lot
going on tonight wowza yeah hold on to
your socks well would you like to hear
what's coming up in the news you add to
that long list of stuff there's more
awesomeness coming off how can there
possibly be more I just can't it just
happens so count up the newsroom folks
the crowdfunding website Kickstarter is
being sued for its promotion of a new 3d
printer pakistan pakistan domain name
hack took o nearly 300 sites including
Google Apple ebay and Yahoo whoo a bug
in an electronic hotel door locks house
sorry a bug in electronic hotel door
locks there we go has been exploited and
is being used to steal from hotel guests
foo minecraft is being used to aid you n
regeneration projects
nintendo's suddenly pulled a wii mini
from up its leaves and it hits canadian
shelves in time for christmas that
sounds exciting another new week mm-hmm
stick around these stars are coming up
later in the show folks awesome hey get
your viewer questions in all you have to
do is email us live at category 5 TV and
of course join us in the chat room love
to see you there let's let's say hi to
some of the people in the chat room how
are ya whoo there's so many of us Raven
Lords rapper nua Mike 55 Maxwell 6307
not FR e where's everybody viewing from
tonight Carly nice to see you jot mm-hmm
I see red one as well feel like I'm
looking into the magic mirror oh I see
John and Carly and not free and rapper
and RD Blair does it always happen with
that accent it does in my head okay I
don't think that's actually how the show
was though I don't know I don't think
she had an accent I don't think she know
but I I could do the accent better than
I could sound like a woman Oh have you
tried hey all right you've got a mobile
device so pull up our mobile site it is
m dot cat5 TV check out that website
scan that QR code to bring it up mcap 5
TV is going to give you access to our
show right there on your mobile device
also works on tablets so fantastic way
to catch the show if you've got a you
know like a 10 inch tablet or something
it's great way to watch the show
absolutely m.com five dot TV and also
because i'm the director always forgets
to do this always oh um you know
category five dot TV is a member of the
tech podcast network if it's tech gets
here and the International Association
of Internet broadcasters we'd love to
receive your postcards you can send
those into us category 5 technology TV
at postal box 29 00 9 Barrie Ontario
Canada l4n 7 w 7 it would be fantastic
to receive some you know if you want to
send a note or Christmas card or a
postcard or anything like that our
postcard board is looking pretty full
but we've got
a little bit of space there's tons of
room and we're perfectly willing to put
in a second board expand the wall it's
gonna be cork board the whole wall is
going to be quart four quarts board
before the end of the year you are so
send it in we love to receive those
we've got to take a quick break before
we take a look at the new hardware from
thermaltake on purposefully being
evasive so that you'll be excited about
this but I'm really excited about this
stuff so stick around we're going to be
right back after this at eco alkalines
we believe you should be able to trust
your batteries not just here but here
here and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here Eco alkalines of the
world's first and only certified carbon
neutral battery manufactured to the
highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance the rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference eco alkalines calm
this is category 5 technology TV I'm
your host Robbie Ferguson i'm chris
dewolfe krista are you ready to check
this out I don't know it seems like too
awesome for me to be ready your head
bangin just before this well Robbie was
head baby I was kind of doing one of
these gone you're kind of getting into
it this is the level 10 m gaming mouse
from TT esports which is a brand from
thermaltake and they are just building
some amazing stuff we love the the level
10 line of product from thermaltake
level 10 basically it is specifically
hardware that is attractive to look at
it's gorgeous stuff its high-end it's
really good quality and it's everything
that you would expect from thermaltake
with regards to being modular and and
really working well with any kind of
environment they're really putting a
spin toward the gamer but of course that
that doesn't have to be the gamer I mean
you get a high resolution mouse and you
as a graphic designer will be in heaven
yeah no kidding yeah even though you're
not doing gaming it's still going to
work really well this particular mouse I
mean we're going to try to go through as
much as we can with this you've never
seen anything like this I guarantee it
because it's never existed it was
designed let's let's start unboxing yes
oh yeah this is party started level 10 m
gaming mouse was designed in partnership
with BMW the people who do graph its
design work Spain yeah design works from
BMW helped to put this together and give
that a little feel wow it is oh look at
this aluminum it's all moving and stuff
yep let's get this Eddie even look at
the packaging you know it's gotta be
good because the package is good they do
a good job with with every little detail
thermaltake and that design works as
well we're going to take a look at that
first of all thermaltake always thinking
of you you're going to be taking this to
your land parties there's a nice little
couch to put it in carry it in safely a
key that will allow you to adjust
the mouse we're gonna let the night cool
and manual and photos and things like
that all right let's check it out it
looks like a tiny little robot it kind
of is ain't man yeah it's it's not that
small though it's it's a fairly it's
fairly yeah not too good robot sure yet
but a large Mouse yeah that's fun right
san this this mouse okay so it has 11
programmable keys Krista can can see
this possibly better than you can at
home I'm going to try to get a close up
for you so that you can get a little bit
of a better look so not only do we have
the standard mouse buttons the scroll
wheel and it's clickable as a middle
mouse button but on the side this is a
multi angled button one two three four
five a button here button here buttons
over here everything Wow is entirely
programmable it's got all the bells and
whistles yeah feel that cool it's it's
neat I mean the way that thermal taken
and and design works have developed this
particular mouse it's crazy when it when
I I mean we're not really gamers I mean
we'll pretend we are yeah gaming awesome
but I mean we do a lot of design work so
you find that the when you're using a
mouse for a long time gamers your it's
not just you but gamers no we know as
designers that mouse can can start to
feel a little bit sweaty and and kind of
it's just uncomfortable don't like to
admit it but a few hours it's true the
the level 10 this level 10 m mouse
actually has not only it doesn't have
ventilation you can see this I don't
know if you can see this at home this is
ventilated and wide open for airflow but
also because it's an aluminum body you
know aluminum is used for heat sinks and
so it actually kind of absorbs and draws
the heat away from your hand and it's it
it does feel after extended use it feels
a lot better you're not feeling as
sweaty when you're when you're using the
mouse and sounds gross but it's true I
mean you're going to sweat if you're
using it there's so many cool features
about this we're going to actually I'm
going to get Krista to plug it in
for the first time but yeah there's a
USB port on the side of your computer
there I assumed let's see what happens
here it's got a little cat what's kind
of awesome about this okay you know
about d high degree of oh yes it's
really a job right you're gonna be
taking this you take it to your land
parties right in it actually has a
really good quality I might break it but
I'm not gonna break it on it you're not
gonna break that she's working I'd have
been working out for a while okay it's
been a while mm-hmm sides on this side
Krista this house sorry I'm used to the
Mac it's 80 200 DPI what 80 200 DPI no
and its user selectable down to 800 DPI
default is 5000 so you imagine how oh
that was neat and something came up on
the screen I was loading so it looks
like the mouse's detect it now so if i
switch over to christa's screen and you
can see I can actually toggle from the
mouse the DPI of the mouse itself so
this is just this toggle switch on the
side Wow super easy mm-hmm give that a
few see what you think of that now what
if i click something that does something
so high-tech I don't know what I say it
to 800 DPI so that it wouldn't be too
crazy what's awesome about this as well
it does have illumination if you can see
that at home they see that camp purple
purple glowing it's currently glowing
purple are we you know under these
lights it's not quite as visible but
it's club it is very very cool but what
I'm gonna get you to do is bring up on
you on your Start menu bring up the
thermaltake TT but super sensitive hold
on I think you set it to a high
resolution so what we do on that kick
yeah you did if there's two too many
cool things going on on this once you
definitely need to read the man i'm
gonna teach krista how this works here I
really excited you've actually got it
set to 5,000 DPI here if I flip the
switch on the side watch the red
indicator that's an actual DPI indicator
so you know that you're operating at a
lower resolution now not
less sensitive so try to oh all right
yes we're good now okay so bring up that
driver look at that there you go so up
at the top you can see that you can
actually create and select profiles and
as you select your profile christa what
happens to the buttons on the mouse what
happened yeah look at the buttons on the
mouse there I don't know I know what
happens oh that shaving colors inside
yeah what so it's like a vibrant blue
now and oh and that goes yellow ah it's
wait so you think that that's a gimmick
but really if you're if you're gaming or
if you're using particular pieces of
software now the mouse is able to
memorize five different games directly
in the built-in memory on the mouse and
when you select the profile it's
actually helpful to happen right so you
know exactly which fun just looking at
but yeah if I'm using this application
it's red or if I'm using this
application it's blue so I know which
profile i'm looking at just by glancing
down at the mouse and seeing the color
there's also a battle mode which is kind
of fun if you're doing a deathmatch or
something in your shoot shoot shoot
shoot shoot and the lights actually
respond to oak or your most usage so
that's kind of fun too it's incredible
you can check it out a cat five dot TV /
Mouse one of the things that I was
thinking about when I saw this it is it
is a rather large looking mouse when I
first heard it out of the box I thought
that looked to me as though it would be
uncomfortable for my hand because I'm
used to not it feels just this an
interesting thing yeah I'm used to you
know the small much smaller mouse this
is just a standard logitech wheel mouse
and you can see that it's substantially
smaller but when you get your hand on
there today it just feels design of it
is so good that it it feels natural it
feels like ne ne sais hand could could
use it comfortably it's a bit heavier
it's I actually wrote it down as a 185
grams just giving idea but it's metal
this mouse is actually metal so cool
it's not going to break your anything
and the buttons on the side are all on
there they're really well placed so it
would be really easy to select the one
you as a right-handed person there
they're easy to access now because of
the symmetry of the mouse you can look
and this is one of the things that was
thinking about is what happens if you're
left-handed the design is pretty
symmetrical other than the side buttons
so as if you were lefty you can feel on
the left hand it feels just as
comfortable the only problem that you
run into as a left-handed person is that
this particular five-way toggle switch
that button is not as easily accessible
but it is you can probably work your way
to use your pinky or use your other hand
just for that particular thing usually
that's going to be used for your
changing your dpi anyway so i think is a
lefty it actually kind of gets that
button out of the way so they wear
Krista there accidentally bumped it up
to 5,000 DPI you're not going to do that
as a lefty so it may actually be a plus
too you know judges you know switch
mm-hmm these are available this is the
level 10 m gaming mouse from TT esports
they're available now I've seen them on
Amazon although all over the world
they're usually under a hundred dollars
but because Christmas season is coming
you're probably going to find some deals
there I see there about twenty dollars
discounted on amazon right now so just
to give you one one source but you can
you can do a search for at the level 10
m gaming mouse or just visit our website
category 5 TV check out the show notes
for episode number 271 we're going to
have some links for you definitely get
this on your Christmas list and if you
are a gamer this is this is a no-brainer
if your graphic designer then certainly
I think the same thing and like I say it
feels pretty comfortable no it really
does yeah I like really nice that for
for some of the show tonight oh I guess
I'll put my pen away from him so just be
mindful this is the Z button here okay
is your dpi up and down so if it starts
to act I mean you can always Mudge me
but there you know that's that's really
the only thing that you need to know oh
it's a regular Mouse I had mentioned
that it is adjustable which is I mean
they think of everything if your hand is
a different size or shape there it comes
with a key and there is the ability to
raise and lower the mouse itself so
you're actually changing the shape of
the body and then you can actually pivot
it as well left and right with the
little just screw holes right here so
it's all really well planned really well
designed and
very solid mouse there so that's the
level 10 m gaming mouse from thermaltake
gonna give you a little tip we are
actually going to be giving away one of
these as part of our Christmas giveaways
this year so make sure you're watching
the show every week we're going to be
dropping your hints and how you can win
that's that's an incredible prize for
any anybody's desk hmm I think you'll
you'll look forward to that but
certainly check it out yep all right
neat neat yeah how's that oh this is
just too cool it's awesome and it's a
laser mouse too mm-hmm not optical right
like you look at the bottom of that
there's no mm-hmm there's no red light
or anything like that it's it's gonna
work on any surface it's what we're
working on this wood grain as well yeah
actually I didn't think about that cuz
I'm had a most pad for so long but yeah
he don't get one when you're using a
tablet it's it's a little different
because you've the tablet becomes your
mouse pad but with this you just use
anything so cool I'm just on the on the
table update hey cool looks 80 200 DPI
that's crazy crazy mm-hmm well yeah you
have your thinking cap on absolutely
don't don't forget cat five dot TV /
Mouse alright check that out see you if
we can come up with some stumper of some
questions oh good you're playing on the
set get your questions in live at
category five dot TV all right here is
one from T 0 b 33 says hi Robbie and
Krista there is something that's really
bothering me leet speak my hard drive
has not died yet that's hidden body no
problem yep all fixed no good oh and
there were things I left out when I told
you about it five months ago it was
given to me by a friend and it's four
years old roughly when it clicks it only
does one faint click every few hours and
it was running windows 7 few weeks ago
and it bsod on me blue screen of death
when Windows goes all windows after
reboot yeah how the name and everything
yes hmm looking into it i notice ubuntu
was crashing but then i realized that by
2 gigabyte ram stick was dying since
then i have not had a blue screen of
death nor crash but HD still does that
faint click every few hours also when i
load something I can hear the motor spin
it's really loud does this say my hard
drives dying or is just old I will never
trust it with the data because I don't
have a backup drive big enough to do a
backup formatted this hard drive so many
times and still not dead sorry for
another crazy question it could be so
many different things there Toby I
wouldn't trust a drive obviously that's
head slapping that's what that is the
the drive you picture in your mind an
old LP record right like a record player
and the needle that goes across and when
you reach the end of the record it slaps
and bone bom-bom-bom right that's kind
of what's happening to your harddrive
there it's a it's a magnetic surface
you've got this head that's moving
around that that's moving on that
surface as this the the surface itself
moves in circular motion and when it's
slapping like that when it's when you're
hearing that tinking sound that's
actually at hitting the spindle of the
of the drive or the outside of the
platter that's not supposed to happen so
it could be that there's there's a lack
of cohesion when the head is moving back
and forth if there's a certain spot on
the drive that's that's bad that it's
skipping over and it's doing it so fast
that it hits the spindle that it's not a
good situation to have and it's not
normal and it could mean that the drive
is pending failure whether that means
it's going to fail right now or not
whether it means you can trust it for
another year or not it's impossible to
say you just one of those situations
where you know that it's not a good
situation and so you don't trust it it's
like if your car was you know you have
to change the oil so you go and you
change the oil you don't just wait and
hope that it doesn't explode on you it's
just it's just common sense right
like people in the chat room Mike Shaw
TV is saying back up your hard drive
tick tock Assange switch to an SSD but
then at least he's got the warning that
it's I had slapping SSD will be either
working one day and then failed the next
er you know it's a whole different ball
game but yeah I would I wouldn't trust
that at all realistically is that makes
sense to me I saw in the chat room some
viewers were asking they just like a
little bit more information about this
thermaltake the level 10 m gaming mouse
this pires rock is asking about how you
can change the DPI of the mouse itself
so if you could bring up the drivers I'm
actually just going to go back to that
which we don't normally do but i want it
i want to show you how this works yeah
where did it go where did it go it'll be
under all programs and under all
programs sorry i'm not a she's not a
Windows youth TT esports TT we're going
about wait till she sees nothing nothing
against the most yeah go level 10 m and
then ah there you go okay I'll grab this
here okay so on your profile as your as
you're actually working within within
the profile itself let's see here we can
go to profile management and you can
actually create you know your profiles
all you want and let's see here for
example performance we're talking about
DPI so here are your dpi levels for
example your double click speed cursor
speed scroll speed and liftoff
adjustment you can also change the
polling rate is you notice that it's
defaulting to a thousand hurts it hurts
which is incredible 500 Hertz 250 Hertz
or 125 hertz so it doesn't look like you
can oh oh isn't this interesting now
we're looking at the screen as we're
looking at the screen I'm thinking pyrus
rock it doesn't look like you can modify
X&amp;Y DPI separately of each other but
then I just happen to notice here up at
the top
enable independent XY sensitivity you
can and look at that there's my ex
there's my why so to answer your
question then pyrus rock is that yes
this is absolutely independent if you
want to use it that way so that's that's
an incredible feature to be able to set
a higher DPI moving up and down then
left and right for example ii cool in
and i'm thinking about third third
person shooters and things like that
where you want to be able to spin around
real fast but you want to be able to
look up and download slower right so
that would allow you to adjust that
quite quite well come on so you can
close out of that I just wanted to
answer that question and glad to see
that you know once again thermaltake is
thought of it all well done kudos to
thermaltake cat5 TV / mouse so cool so
cool guys here is a question from Hong
Kong Ching says hi Robbie and co-host my
laptop it has three partitions sda1 sta
a five and SD a six my ubuntu was
installed in SD a one and i installed
windows XP in the Oracle VirtualBox
software I put the windows version of
sorry I put the windows virtual hard
disk file the vhd in partition SD a five
my question is in that virtual system
how can i mount SD a five and SD a six
partitions in windows instead of shared
folders and then as a note here that
says in the bluetooth system I'm out at
SDA 5 and SD a 62 the folders / mount /
d yeah sda1 SDA to SDA five at the SDA 6
whatever those are all it's one hard
drive and he's partitioned it into many
different pieces of the mind okay it's
sounding to me there Hong Jang as if you
are attempting to let the virtual
machine access the raw hard drive so
that you're not having to use a virtual
hard drive and the one thing that we
need to remember is we're creating
virtual machines is that a virtual
machine uses virtual hardware
so a virtual hard drive is really a file
on the physical hard drive but that
virtual machine accesses to set up
actual access to the hard drive itself
the raw physical drive is doable you can
do that with virtualbox it's just this
extremely extremely I can't stress
enough I mean I'll tell you it's very
very dangerous reason being part of me
just to really kind of make it simple
for you imagine that you have mounted
SDA 5 as an actual raw hard drive so say
the e drive on your Windows guest
operating system and then you mount that
in your Linux system now you've got two
operating systems that are accessing
this drive as a raw hard drive neither
one knows that the other one exists and
you're you're talking basically I mean
you're lucky if you don't get instant at
the instant data corruption and that
kind of scenario can happen very very
easily in that sort of environment so
it's never really recommended now that
said I have a particular virtual
environment for example where we have a
raid 5 unit that is the the data drive
or the storage drive of a windows server
OS that is a guest and it accesses that
raid 5 as a raw raw volume so so in that
case it's set up that way and it's it's
very very important that the
administrator knows not to touch the the
the drive from within the Linux host but
it could happen see it's it could really
happen if somebody stood in front of the
system with root access and and started
writing stuff to that hard drive it
could completely corrupt the window
system so you want to be really really
careful of that I'll tell you it's
outside of the scope of the show it's
not something that I could possibly
teach you in the course of a one hour
show let alone a five hour show but it
is in the virtual box manual and I've
done it before and I use it but I don't
recommend it unless you are very
well-versed at
at Linux and hardware and hard drives
and things like that very very risky
chapter 9 of the virtualbox manual let's
just do a search ctrl f for raw drive
raw disk there it is so advanced storage
configuration using a raw hosts hard
disk from a guest alright look at the
warning raw hard disk access is for
expert users only and they're serious
about this this isn't like a you know do
you want to use the advanced installer
on windows or versus the wizard right
this is this is for real you've got to
be an expert at this incorrect use of or
use of an outdated configuration can
lead to total loss of data on the
physical disk yeah and they're they're
telling it like it is most importantly
do not attempt to boot the partition
with the current running host operating
system in a guest this will lead to
severe data corruption so all that said
you can follow the instructions there to
make it happen if you really feel
confident that you can do it I would
experiment with test system before you
go putting that on a production system
and destroying everything because it can
happen very very easily the instructions
are there I won't go into how you do it
because it's all there and i'll post a
link in the pardon me in the chat room
but also in the show notes for episode
number 271 be careful if you're going to
do that now okay so that said you've got
all these partitions you've got space on
the partitions why not just create a new
fixed sized volume for your virtual
machine what that means is that if you
set up a 20 gigabyte virtual hard drive
it will create a 20 gigabyte file so you
never have to worry about it extending
beyond the the size it's like growing
beyond the size of the actual physical
disk and then it's something that ok now
this hard drive is a single file you can
transfer that to a backup easily and
you've got a backup of that entire
virtual hard drive that's a better
scenario plus if it's a fixed disk it
means that it's it's it's going to be
it's going to be within itself at least
the disc itself is not going to be
fragmented the data within it because
it's a win
guest is going to fragment but the drive
itself the 20 gigs allocated is not
going to fragment if you were using the
raw hard drive it's going to fragment
the whole thing because linux has no
control over the file system right so I
hope that all makes sense again links
will be in the show notes and i've
already posted in the chat room there so
i really hope that that helps thanks for
the question no Hongshan alright well it
seems like that time that time already I
know how did we get here so quickly I
don't know you just talk lots and time
just kind of goes I mean when you're
having fun gonna fill an hour you know
well you're the top swears in the
category 5 TV news room more than two
thousand users contributed over 2.9
million dollars that's 1.9 1.8 million
pounds to help massachusetts-based
formlabs but the device however 3d
systems a leading maker printers that
turn computer design files into
real-world objects has alleged one of
its patents was being infringed by the
machine it has also filed a lawsuit
against formlabs itself the two
defendants have yet to respond to the
accusations although patent patent
lawsuits are relatively common in the US
tech industry this marks the first time
Kickstarter has been involved in a case
linked to a product marked on its site
hmm yeah that's coming you hear about
patent lawsuits all the time but with
Kickstarter being really just a way to
fund a project it seems unreasonable
that they would get sued yeah it's not
aware that will go that'll be like suing
paypal because somebody bought an
illegal product from me it doesn't make
a whole lot you ask me well yes we'll
see how it yeah that what comes of that
sure Google Apple ebay Annja who were
among 300 sites affected by a hack
attack in Pakistan the hack targeted
sites that had Pakistani domain names
such as com dot PK sorry comp PK PK or
org PK hackers exploited an apparent
vulnerability and donate man sit and
don't name me Oh
domain name systems redirecting visitors
of popular sites to a different site the
page featured a picture of two penguins
walking across a bridge with the slogan
at Pakistan down the companies
themselves were not breached but it
meant key services such as Google's
Gmail were temporarily down that's kind
of scary that's really scary I'm yeah I
think about okay so that if they did the
Pakistan downed that's all fine and good
they need to fix that leg immediately
this isn't a Google problem this is like
a registrar from imagine if somebody
could take over your calm and turn it
into whatever they want they are very
and I they as a blanket statement of the
Pakistani people who are affected by
this are very very fortunate that the
users were not more malicious than this
what if they had taken a pace a payment
site or Amazon and made it look like
Amazon create a phishing site that now
takes your credit card information and
takes your amazon login information you
look in the address bar yeah I'm on
amazon.com PJ but really it's a fishing
site directed directing to some other
server that is scary yeah we're all so
lenient with that kind of thing nowadays
like you look at something like out
looks legit looks like what I'm usually
on and you don't really think twice but
this Lily imagine if google.com took you
somewhere else and then imagine if
PayPal calm took you to something that
looked like PayPal calm yeah and
literally in your browser it said paypal
calm so you enter your username and
password and yeah guess what you just
gave it to some hacker yeah that's what
could have happened I don't know if it
does happen because obviously this is an
exploit now that hackers know about but
it's possible that it is happening
already that is very very scary stuff be
more careful yeah friggin burglars seem
to be exploiting a bug in widely used
electronic door it locks to steal from
hotels the bug was first publicized at a
hacker conference in July showing how a
simple electronic device could unlock
in seconds a series of thefts from
hotels in Texas are being traced to a
burglar who unlocked doors with the same
technique insurance firms said they
expected to be hit hard as knowledge of
the hack spread among professional
thieves strange that they would actually
show something like that to a conference
like well hacker conferences do this
come on all the time right or security
conferences security conferences like
it's like me sitting down and saying
okay well what if I just gave someone
some hacker and Pakistan an idea right
same sort of thing we're just tossing
around thoughts and that kind of thing
could come up somebody finds an exploit
and sits down and tells a whole room
full of people about it thinking ya know
maybe their security experts and they're
trying to create ways to sit to protect
people somebody needs to talk about it
right hmm kind of scary nothing scary
tonight this is a no good news news day
I guess what's going on I don't know
breakin in the hotel rooms changing
websites no nothing safe anymore give me
something good I'll try I'll try let's
see Oh development plans for 300 places
around the world are being modeled in
Minecraft so residents can help decide
how the locations will change called
block by block the program is part of a
collaboration between minecraft maker mo
mo hang um and un-habitat urban
locations will be recreated on computer
using minecraft allowing residents to
take a virtual tour whoa they will also
be able to change the model and help
decide how regeneration cash it should
be spent my house look blocky that's
nice that's pretty awesome like the
people is it's a scale like I realistic
there I know that's minecraft baby it's
like good news it's like good enough
news for you they could have used
something like that's based on the cry
to an j'en or something instead
something with photorealistic graphics
but no now let's take a whole bunch of
squares and pile them on top of each
other and say this is what your new
house is gonna look like so
exciting yeah room is that a treat I
think where that red shrub may actually
be at oh yeah far left yeah some form of
a shrub I see that he's done some nice
tile work mm-hmm to his place and kind
of a sign up from that's so nice yeah
try it out hmm all right moving on
Nintendo has to launch a pair down
version of its wii console in time for
christmas although it will only be
available in canada yes that's not the
launch of the Wii Menu k pictures of
which were published on its website
today have been widely widely
anticipated in the technology press when
console will go on sale on December 7th
for just a hundred dollars the wii mini
will have no intent are sorry no
internet the capabilities and is
designed to play only wii games meaning
there will be no compatibility with
earlier GameCube games it is as the name
suggests smaller than the original wheat
and comes in black with a red border it
is unclear when the device will be
available in other countries or why it
is being launched exclusively in Canada
at this time that sounds cool and it
looks like they've kind of jazzed up the
device but yeah I got my first gen we
for 99 bucks it has internet and it's
the full-size full-size buddy which is
still tiny I mean it's a little break
right but the thing that strikes me
about that if there's no internet that
means no netflix right so that's
strictly a gaming console strictly
gaming and strictly wii game yeah but
it's the same price as what i paid for
my first gen we which has right the
gaming was way back with availability
the gamecube which we use i got onto
kijiji which is a local classified
system and somebody was selling a whole
bunch of old GameCube games and so it's
like okay he was like woohoo payday I
gave him like 20 bucks and and got like
15 games and a couple controllers so now
you know it can play those on the ninety
nine dollar
you that I got because it's compatible
with gamecube so they're saying this one
doesn't do that hmm seems kind of
backwards as far as technology goes
there trying to go like the Apple route
of giving you less but charging you more
not that Apple would do such a thing no
what are they at they don't talk about
4th gen ipad now hmm I don't know it
finally has another mini version of
minnie minnie hmm which is kind of like
the tablet that everyone else is created
yes this isn't it wasn't Mack bashing
time no but that's kind of shocking a
little bit but interest I never heard
anything about this Nintendo Wii mini
mm-hmm even you know I had any they're
being launched yeah the only place which
is really odd too because usually things
aren't launched in Canada first yeah
they've been hyping the wii u like crazy
it's everywhere and the posters
everywhere coming november whatever 11th
or something it's it's they've been
pushing that and then all of a sudden to
say oh by the way here's another product
in time for Christmas it's it's it's
interesting because I think they'll get
those people who possibly can't spend
the money on a wii u mm-hmm and the kids
want a wii mm-hmm but it could backfire
too because then there's going to be a
certain level of disappointment for the
for the people who wanted a wii u and
all right why the wii but it's got the
red quarter on its a red border but no
internet cool no netflix and that you
don't need internet when you have a red
border it was one or the other we can't
put both in this device you can just
access your internet on your iPad Mini
yes good I've got it all worked out for
you we got it figured out folks Oh get
the full stars that category 5 TV /
newsroom in the category 5 TV news room
is Brock or is research by roy w natural
contributions from our community of
yours if you have a news story that you
think is worthy of on-air mentioned just
email us at news room at category 5 TV
from the category 5 TV news room I'm
Krista wells thanks Krista now if you
have any device other than the wii mini
netflix is a great service to have and
we will give it to you free
for an entire month one homer you don't
have to keep it if you don't want it but
you will it's eight bucks a month
afterwards but you can cancel at any
point with no obligations cat5 TV /
Netflix to sign up for a one month free
trial check it out also category 5
technology TV is brought to you in part
by quarter e electrical contracting inc
you can find out more about them at
quarter eee electric com and certainly
if you're in ontario make sure you give
them a call with all of your electrical
needs they've been just exceptional to
us here at the show this is category 5
technology TV welcome to the show if
you're new here make sure you say hello
in the chat room or pop us an email live
at category five dot TV just to tell us
where you're watching from and what you
think of the show and if you have a
question that's really what we're here
for we love to answer your questions and
do our best to to help you out with any
of your tech needs our viewer base tends
to be largely Linux centric but we are
here to you know try to help you with
anything that surrounds tech that's what
we're here for cool we got all well you
have some time for more some more
questions love question ruse all right
here is a question from Raven Lords hey
Raven warts hello everyone at category 5
I was just trying to see if you can help
me to set up a DNS server on my virtual
box bhuntu system or server sorry 12.04
LTS and set a domain name that I just
got from godaddy com I'm not sure how to
set it up I really could use the help
hmm Raven Lords could I ask you some
questions instead of I'll answer your
question I will answer your question
with a question well I mean there's
there certain thing that why are you
setting it up yourself that would be the
first question because you know that we
have a special deal through one of our
partners if you're a registered viewer
on the show and go to the coupon section
a category 5 TV I think it's it's like
seventy dollars you get a free domain
name and you get hosting for the year
and you can host as many websites as you
want
and it comes with email and everything
so it saves you having to be a server
administrator now because you're having
trouble setting up dns on ubuntu the one
of the questions that i would ask you to
answer your question to the question
you're using a virtual machine okay
that's fine I mean there there are
certain things about that if you're
running a virtual machine do you have a
host server that will be on all the time
that would be the big question because
if you turn it off or if you shut it
down or if the computer is down for some
reason then you're going to lose access
to your website and that becomes a whole
other problem if you're using a boon to
server then you could install by nine
and get your DNS server up and running
fairly easily you could you could even
just install Apache for example Apache
is a web server application install the
PHP dash five package in that synaptic
or through apt-get if you're just using
the the terminal and no GUI php5 install
that and that will give you a patchy PHP
all the different fixins that you need
to get up and running with a server and
and you can actually set up virtual host
so that you would just point Go Daddy
and your registrar of whoever your
registrar is just point them to your IP
address which has to be static otherwise
your IP address changes your website
goes down again so but what I would
recommend that you try and I know that
you you you know you want to you want to
set up a server and that's fine and
dandy but there are really easy ways to
set up a server without having to go the
route of installing the deploying the
operating system and then trying to
figure out okay do I need the PHP 5
package do i need the x 9 package to get
dns support do i need how do i set that
up now that i've installed it how do i
get it configured okay now I've got a
second domain how do I set that up it
can be pretty complicated so one of the
applications or the appliances that
we've looked at in the past is called
turnkey Linux so I'd wonder Raven Lords
if that's an option for you it's
something that Eric and I actually
looked at on the show I'm just going to
do a quick search through
website just to see if I can track down
that episode for you turn-key lamp I'll
do a search for episode number 169 oh it
looks like there's a problem with the
file there it is ok so the turnkey lamp
stack is freely available it is based on
now Debian Linux which is what ubuntu is
based on but it comes with a really nice
front end so that you can actually log
in through your browser configure your
domains configure your email and
everything from a GUI using your web
browser on another computer it's a
brilliant way to set up a server on the
fly make it really really easy the whole
concept of turnkey is to make it really
really simple to deploy really really
fast to deploy so everything is included
with that go to turn key linux org and
on that website probably on the front
page Yap the first one there is called
the lamp stack that is linux apache
mysql and PHP so everything comes out of
the box all pre configured for you Raven
Lords that's one option but to answer
your question strictly it is to probably
just install the by nine package and get
that configure which we could do you
know we could that's a little complex I
hate to say that but it is complex and
time-consuming for for a show wonder how
we could do that I think possibly if I
put some links for you in the show notes
or simply encourage you to get into a
search engine and do a search for ubuntu
dns server installation perhaps how to
set up a dns server with bind there you
go right on a boon to forums as the
first result that came up so yeah see
they're walking you through there's
installing by nine configuring your bind
files and looks I mean just a first
glance here that looks fairly thorough
and because it's the forum at a boon to
forums org you
got the feedback from other users as
well saying okay yeah I did this now try
this and do that it's a good way to do
it and you can reply back in that thread
and work together with those people you
can see though that that's you can see
looking back at the first post there it
is it is involved this is why I say you
know I hate to say it but it's not
something I can really show you on the
show it is quite involved and it's quite
specific to your setup and like what
you're doing with your domain and how
your how you're pointing it to yourself
and all that so I tend to think though I
mean if you're just starting up and
you're just getting your web hosting
setup so that your hosting yourself that
it's a complex way to do it you might
just think about setting up just a lamp
stack and get it get it up and running
rather than trying to build a server
from the ground up or go with something
that's a hosted solution like what we
have available for you in the coupon
section which i think is a great way to
go as well so sure thank you very much
for the question I hope that you know I
always hope that I'm able to point you
in the direction of what what's going to
help you what I'm gonna do for you Raven
Lords I'm just going to post the the
link that I just brought up on the show
just going to post that in a chat room
for you so that's there and you can just
click on that and that will that will
take you to to that thread as well so
hopefully that will help you but as
bind9 is why you need to get the DNS
going on on your boon to system and that
goes with debian or whatever you're
running yeah thanks very much for the
question hope that helps alright let's
see him anymore oh I've got more
questions coming in from you live at
category 5 TV i love your questions
thank you thank you there is a question
from robert core sinski says hi Robbie
and krista i have a new pc which i'm
going to use as a media server and i'm
not sure what OSU's free free nas
freenas i'm laid unraid openfiler open
media vault or ubuntu server what have
the viewers use as a media server and
what has been the experience with what
they have used the server is going to
replace an off the shelf unit which is
very slow took 20 hours to back
two terabytes of data to an external USB
3 hard drive on all gigabyte or yeah
gigabit network sorry should I set up
the raid using ntfs ZFS x4 etc I'm going
to be watching and listening to the
media through a boxee box and it and
through a pc may also watch it through
my android tablet at the same time he
has as a specs for the the machine okay
so it's in the sous p8 h77 mini ITX
motherboard 6 serial ATA controller
headers i would assume not controllers
core i5 3470 just 3.2 gigahertz which at
first glance makes them ii think that's
really overkill for a media server eight
gigs of ram ddr3 and a mini ITX case way
way way overkill for a file server to be
strict honest with you but if you've
already got it then no big deal the i5
is reasonably good as far as power you
know efficiency goes i like to look at
you know efficiency you didn't mention
your power supply i would get an
efficient power supply something that's
going to do a good job for you and be
environmentally friendly because it's
going to be running all the time kind of
thing i I mean it depends on what you're
doing you say you wanted to use it as a
media server you want to use it to be
able to back up stuff too i'd assume
from the other comment and you're in
your post about backing up to the old
system and you want it to be reasonably
fast now freenas the advantage there is
that it is really it's it's a real Linux
installation where you can you can ssh
into it and install stuff and it's easy
breezy and it'll it'll go pretty good so
the advantage there is that you can
install for example ps3 media server so
that so that it's actually able to
stream directly to a playstation 3 or
you can do the same sort of thing with
an xbox with with Apple devices that's
supported as well not not necessarily
specifically in freenas but if you know
what you're doing any know what to
install you can do that unraid is the
one that I fell in love with and there's
a couple reasons for that first reason
is that it is very very easy to set up
very very easy to configure but the big
thing is that it can use any old
hardware freenas unless you're using ZFS
and you can and you know your way around
setting up a dynamic volume and and
whatever else you need to do with unraid
I can put in any hard drive and I can
grow my array at any time on the fly so
if I start with the two let's say I've
got three two terabyte hard drives in
there great so I've got one for parity
which is redundancy so that if the hard
drive fails I don't lose any data and
then 24 data so I've got four terabytes
of workable space and two terabytes is
parity so then if I decide okay well I
want to actually expand the array so I I
take out the parody draw well let's say
I take out one of the data drives would
be the best bet take out the first data
drive and put in a 3 terabyte drive so
now parody rebuilds the 3 terabyte drive
with the data from the old two terabyte
that I pulled out and now I've got two
two terabyte drives and 13 terabyte
drive which you can't normally do in a
rate environment because they all have
to match and now it's expanded me to
five terabytes I've got a three and a 20
no because the three has to be parody
but just just to give you an idea and
I'll give you the unraid capacity
calculator that i developed the figures
all that out for you the biggest drive
has to be Paradiso it's my mistake but
essentially that it is true I mean you
can add drives and you can expand drives
I've had it happen because when i
started my array i put in a couple of
500 gig hard drive so there's a good
example where I've because I've got a
two terabyte parody drive I can take out
that 500 gig drive on the fly put in a
two terabyte hard drive and it now
increases my capacity on that unraid
storage device by one point five
terabytes just like that I lose no data
off of the 500 gig drive I can recycle
it or use it in the system or something
and and everything is normal on the
array that's really cool that it can be
done with all different sized drives it
works really well but I guess it depends
on what you want to stream i mean i use
it for media I
an iOS box you'll find out more if you
if you go to cap five dot TV / piva
which is P i vos I'm you can check out
the iOS which is a device that we've
reviewed on the show connects to the TV
and uses samba to access files on your
network which is fantastic unraid keeps
up to it i stream HD video files
directly to it over Gigabit Ethernet
actually I think I do it over Wi-Fi now
and it works just as well so I like the
unraid as far as how it works good guy
wants to know if it offers encryption it
is Samba based so it is it's basically
windows file sharing its user level
access you can set up a user account
that you know that user has to be logged
into the unraid server to to be able to
access the shares right just like a
windows share so as far as the security
goes it's not it's not built to be an
outside accessible system like something
that you would put it would generally be
behind a firewall it's slackware if i'm
not mistaken so if you're a linux user
it's fairly easy to install things on it
and everything like that but it it is a
little different than FreeNAS and that
it's not it doesn't feel like a Linux
installation that's not something that
you would really SSH into and install
things in it has telenet access and you
can install things that you know are
prepackaged for unraid but if you try to
install some slackware packages you
might break it so always best to use
some of the things that are available
directly for that for that system I'll
post some more information about unraid
and and I guess it's really your choice
but i think unraid would do really
really well for you and here's another
kicker you can get it free if you have
three or less drives so you can always
try it i'll post the links in the show
notes for episode number 271 and
hopefully that'll hopefully that will
point you in a direction anyway give it
a try
and rate is very very easy to set up
cool cool just about at a time if you
can believe just a couple of minutes
left I wanted to show you something
really interested I mean just I love
websites that do things I'm always on
the hunt for websites that save me time
or give me a tool that I can use you've
seen me I've used CSS color Pickers and
stuff create you know just really easy
ways to create gradients and things
we've done that with the with the web
developer toolkit which is cat five dot
TV / web dev one of the tools that I was
looking at that I really thought was
brilliant because I'm always looking for
a timer I have my ipod touch and I'm
always using the timer on that which is
fine but it is what it is it's got
you've got to have your ipod touch on
and pain if you have one you know that
the battery doesn't last very well and
usually the time I get home from work
it's already dead and it's sitting up on
the charger in the bedroom so kind of
useless that way so there is a
particular website just simply egg timer
but throw throw a dot just before the
first GG I'll show you here how it looks
egg timer com just right in the word egg
timer and put an e there and I just
think it's a fantastic idea i think it's
a you know it's easily accessible and
it's it's good for you so start your
timer use regular english and just say
okay I want to do 35 minutes 20 seconds
whatever your timer is and then hit go
and it's actually going to count down
just like that it's going to set an
alert for you so that it automatically
yeah throws up an alert when it's time
good good so what can that be used for
of course I mean if I'm making eggs I
can set it for five knots big deal right
there is also you know like Pomodoro 25
minutes on five minutes rest 25 minutes
on so you can actually go specifically
to to that and it will just run in the
background you can minimize your browser
and you know you're sitting at work and
25 minutes later it tells you okay stand
up walk around that's great I need to
keep resetting it just does it for you
it does it for you so it gives you five
more minutes and then buzzes you back to
work and you back to work for another
five minutes so the I think that's great
what's neat about this though as you'll
see as I create a timer so there's my 35
minutes 20 seconds that I've entered in
just in regular text just like I would
tell you oh I go it's got to be 35
minutes and 20 seconds so okay go and
you'll see that it starts the timer but
it also gives you a book markable if
that's a word link I'll so you don't
have to reset it next time each is if
you're doing a recurring task that
always takes 35 minutes and 20 seconds
and just bookmark that or you can just
go to e dot good timer egg timer com and
just enter right on the on the address
bar five minutes and it's automatically
going to start at five minutes for you
from the address bar so in that way you
know you could hey we're we're all web
developers here so why not set up a
timer that know is based on my own
application and just launched his egg
timer and and sets the time and goes
from there speaking of time that is all
the time that we have but what how does
this happen doesn't even feel like a
full hour you know how do you like how
do you like the level and awesome i love
it oh yeah check it out a half five dot
TV / mouse Krista great to see ya as I'm
gonna be back there was very little
waste in a row
I didn't have time it's like you just
you knew the insulter coming so we just
like you're goin gotta look at egg timer
it was an insult avoider right there oh
no so many good insult just wasted
chatroom nice to see you and certainly
if you're watching but not available in
the chat room say hi to us drop us an
email live at category 5 TV we love
hearing from you we look forward to
hearing from you and don't forget to
send your postcards this week as well
see you next week good
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcast drive from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching us on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category five
TV and find out when you can watch live
and interact in the community chat room
category five is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
