here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom we'll
explain the latest threat dubbed
meltdown and spectre lithium ion
batteries in HP notebook computers and
mobile workstations that are not
customer replaceable are being recalled
will tell you which products are
affected so stick around
remember the VTEC word it on back in
2015 the FTC has finally reached a
settlement deal with the Toymaker and
Toyota is working with a handful of
companies to create an autonomous
electric fleet of vehicles these stories
are coming right up
don't go anywhere whether you shop on
ThinkGeek gearbest B&amp;H photo video eBay
or Amazon or even if you want a free
trial of audible you'll find the best
deals and support the shows we produce
by simply visiting the shopping sites
you already frequent by using the links
on our website visit category 5 TV slash
partners for the full and ever-growing
list and help us create more free
content like this show thank you for
shopping with our partners and thank you
for watching this is the category-five
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories with a slight linux bias I'm
Sacha Rickman and here the top stories
were following this week the latest
threat has been dubbed meltdown and
Spectre but what is it well we gave it a
week for the facts to start percolating
and here's the lowdown Google's Project
zero revealed the details last week of a
vulnerability impacting Intel chips
going all the way back to 1995 and
confirmed rumors that involve the use of
speculative execution they also went
against comments made by AMD that said
it was not affected Google said these
vulnerabilities affect many CPUs
including those from AMD arm and Intel
as well as the devices and operating
systems running them the flaws dubbed
meltdown and Spectre allow an attacker
to read memory that should not be
accessible this allows a virtual machine
to read the memory of the host machine
thereby having access to other memory to
a memory of other VMs hosted on that
machine modern CPUs use speculative
execution to increase performance the
concern therefore is that by patching
against the exploit performance will
also suffer
greatly while their response to melt
down inspector hasn't been as smooth as
originally hoped vendors appear to have
done a thorough job meltdown though
easier to exploit is also easier to
protect against operating systems
updates should appear successful should
appear appear successful and should do a
solid job for Intel Apple and future ARM
chips that are susceptible to the attack
Spectre on the other hand is going to be
tricky it doesn't have any clean simple
fix unlike the other attacks there
doesn't appear to be any way of
implementing an operating system-level
fix appropriate application level fixes
is in all likelihood going to require
lots of manual effort by developers
longer-term it seems likely that
meltdown will recede into the distance
an annoyance perhaps but fully patched
and protected against while the rather
more subtle specter is going to be with
us for some time the best thing we can
do for now is update our systems to get
the latest OS patches and watch it as
the story continues to unfold Wow well
this is an interesting one yeah it
absolutely is now I wonder why meltdown
inspector like wow how do they come up
with these sorts of strange because it
wouldn't be as fun to call them banana
and chocolate right it's the chocolate I
don't know meltdown seems ominous
Spectre doesn't seem that bad to me wait
till you encounter it yeah that's sure
no what I find so interesting is that
there's there doesn't appear to be a way
to fix so it was a Spectre that the can
fix without doing just software fixes
the there's no way to get into the
basics it makes it wonder if this is
going to open the door to some sort of a
lawsuit that they've permanently made
some computers and networks vulnerable
and as such they're on the hook for the
hardware to fit like mmm you know it
opens the door to that kind of wood
where we did end though this is the big
question this is the beginning of that
story no doubt there will be updates
Amala
yeah yeah we'll see what kind of
firmware patches come out how right now
it's still very speculative how much
performance is going to be impacted by
by the fixes yeah though I guess we'll
just have to stand by and see now
lithium-ion batteries in HP notebook
computers and mobile workstations that
are not customer replaceable are being
recalled the recall involves certain
lithium-ion batteries compatible with HP
notebook computers and mobile
workstations the affected batteries were
sold with the notebook computers and
mobile workstations and were also sold
separately as replacement batteries
approximately 2,600 affected batteries
were sold in Canada 50,000 in the United
States and 1,900 in Mexico the recalled
batteries were sold over a two-year
period from December 2015 to December
2017 at various retail locations and
online the problem is that the battery
can overheat posing a potential burn and
fire hazard the company has not received
any reports of incidents or injuries in
Canada in the United States the company
has received eight reports of
overheating batteries and one report of
injury and in Mexico the company has
received one report of battery
overheating and no reports of injury
this recall affects several models of HP
and v pavilion Zenbook x360 pro book and
more so make sure you review the HP
battery recall website to see if you're
affected the product name can be found
by utilizing the keyboard shortcut
function and escape or on the barcode
label on the bottom of the notebook PC
Wow so now what a an overheating battery
melt the computer potentially sure a
plastic computer why not so could send
the battery chassis is usually plastic
right yeah that's true and it would set
it on fire could be we've encountered
that with Samsung's phones yeah
kerfuffle
been a lot of injury there's been a
couple like I mean I'm not saying that
the person injured is well usually if
your laptop is on fire you wouldn't lay
down on top of it right I wonder if I'm
taking injury maybe it was overheating
on somebody's lap and they just didn't
right that's what I'm thinking then
they're going wow this is really hot now
I have had my laptop on my lap before
now I'm not saying wait for a laptop yes
I topped my lap and it has gotten warm
so my battery is probably not a problem
right but are there ways because
obviously you don't want things to
overheat it doesn't help performance is
are there ways to circumvent that so
that you wouldn't have an overheating
can you do well in this case it's a
defect right so but generally speaking
your laptop and if you look at your
laptop lift it up look and look
underneath you'll see vents like vent
holes and that's where it draws air in
from or blows air out of usually comes
in from the bottom and then out the side
of the chassis so if if you're sitting
on like a blanket and you've got it on
the bed or something like that and it's
unable to draw air in it can actually
overheat so that can cause damage to the
internal get little stands for
underneath your laptop bamboo stand yeah
so I mean there's ways around it just to
allow some airflow put it on a book like
a hardcover book while you're well I
would think like instead of on the bed
or the blanket or whatever something
that's gonna obstruct the airflow if you
had it on something hard like a book or
something then that would that would
help oh
that's the poor man's the US Federal
Trade Commission has agreed to a
settlement deal with a children's
electronic toy maker that it accused of
collecting kids personal information and
failing to properly secure that data the
government watchdog said that VTech will
pay six hundred and fifty thousand
dollars and agreed to a set of privacy
and security requirements in order to
settle charges that it violated both the
Children's Online Privacy Protection Act
and the FTC act the settlement deal puts
to bed allegations by the FTC that VTech
broke the law with its operation of the
following learning lodge kid connect
planted VTech games and educational
websites for kids and specifically the
allegation that the company did not
properly secure the information on
millions of children and parents prior
to the 2015 hack of its services and
theft of customer data the breached
Learning Lodge and kid connect services
were said to have hosted around 2.25
million accounts that contains
information on roughly 3 million kids
the accounts had things like the child's
name date of birth and the gender as
well as the parents name physical
address email address and security
question answers
the Toymaker will be required to cut the
FTC a six hundred and fifty thousand
dollar check about 22 cents per affected
child to settle the case VTech will also
agree to a stricter set of compliance
requirements including regular third
party security audits to check whether
it is properly storing and encrypting
its collected information and to make
sure it is getting express consent from
parents before it collects any personal
information
speaking about data theft oh yeah I
don't know if that's harsh enough a
punishment 22 cents per affected child
who gets the money to write like the
occasional audit how about you're done
because you didn't do it right and kids
are now affected for the rest of their
lives
maybe but VTech is kind of like the gold
standard of in the industry for these
kind of products for kids my toys and
yeah I mean I can't think of anybody
else who does it more broadly than they
were well yeah but it's funny that this
has happened I didn't know about the
data breach in 2015 but we had for our
kids leapfrogs right they were from
VTech and I remember you know you get
the games and then but then I asked you
for these online accounts and you can
access all the games from the accounts
and I remember saying to my wife
something that seems wrong about this
like it's a kids
why should kids have to have accounts
with all this information on it and I
called VTech and I asked him about I'm
like why yeah and I said oh let's you
know so that you as a parent can know
what's going on their accounts blah blah
blah and I'm like why would you even add
that kind of information oh it's you
know it's just the way the system set up
and I had issues with it so we never
signed up we ended up stopped using the
devices because there was something
about it I just had this inky feeling
you were right there we go I'm
vindicated there you go of course if
they are going to figure out a way of
protecting future children that's great
but what about the past children like it
bothers me that now they have the name
gender birthdate
physical address yeah where is that
worried about these children really
these children now are growing up with
one mark against them in the online
world already right and how I know okay
I not saying data breaches and all this
kind of stuff are okay but the amount of
information that parents put online
about their kids already through
Facebook
I can guarantee you your kid's life is
categorized by Facebook yeah they know
their names they know the toys that they
play with like the fact that Facebook is
fifty two thousand categories of your
information like it's not like your kids
are not already tagged because both of
you are so what as parents do you do to
protect your kids against situation I
have a cabin in the woods yes Bubble Boy
[Laughter]
I'm thinking about go back to the
picture point how many of us still use a
point-and-shoot or DSL camera we all use
our phones to take pictures of the kids
at the park and stuff yes convenient our
phones have geolocation tracking and the
EXIF data of the photos actually contain
longitude and latitude for where that
photo was taken
yes so then I upload that to social
media before I strip all the EXIF data
mm-hmm guess what Facebook now knows
exactly where I was sitting
longitude and latitude when I took that
picture yep so like it all this data is
there
and yeah and here you know digressing
from VTech now Facebook and everything
else but when data theft occurs who gets
that data how do they aggregate it what
do they use it for and these are
children we need to protect the children
and so what do you do to a certain
degree when it comes to the online
culture and the Internet of Things you
can only go so far when you have to
trust that there's another company who's
doing what's right yeah a lot of it is
trust yeah a lot of it's trust huh so
but just it's being smart don't don't
get careless with that information yeah
get to that point where you're like Jeff
and say something's a little fishy about
it was not in Russia today children your
name is Jeff right now because we're in
real life but online your name is
something else
Samantha do you have more for us yeah
yeah oh sweet Toyota has partnered with
a company a number of companies to form
the e pallet Alliance which is a group
intended to help guide its
transformation as a mobility services
company and to determine how it will
make use of its new pallet vehicle
platform a pallet is a modular
driverless vehicle intended to suit a
number of purposes all at once the
initial group of companies includes uber
DD Mazda Amazon and Pizza Hut they will
be working together to help guide the
direction of Toyotas concept vehicle the
e palette and how it develops and
supports the mobility services it offers
to companies as a result Toyota disgusts
this as a way to help build a common
platform that all businesses and
companies can use as a plug-and-play
open platform for building out their own
mobility services which they can then
offer consumers for example Amazon could
use the vehicles for personal deliveries
in Pizza Hut could use them for pizza
deliveries the vision from Toyota is a
vast one that would ultimately see its
vehicles deployed as a fleet of flexible
service vehicles that
can switch from logistics to delivery to
passenger travel as part of a large
autonomous electric network Toyota plans
to launch the e pallet and the early
results of its partnership with the
Alliance at the Tokyo Olympics in 2021
hmm so here's the thing with these
vehicles deliveries will have to change
their definition because obviously a car
cannot bring a pizza to your door why
not
and Amazon cannot put bring me a pizza
car to this step from the car so now
it's going to be in part I think part of
the person like the dill well the
recipients of the delivery is going to
now have to take a more active sure
hearts in the situation like maybe meet
the car at the road or maybe it'll be
like the pizza had ice cream truck that
drives down the road and then people
just flag it to stop when you want a
pepperoni pizza I don't know I like it's
gonna have to be well yeah absolutely
yeah and I think the technology is gonna
we're gonna see it evolve overnight and
we've and we've seen this in through the
stories in San Francisco about the you
know the small robots and things yeah
there's no need for a driver so you
don't need to build it like the based on
the the old car model right so if you
could really do away with the driver
seat then why not why not have it
something that shows up and uses NFC to
detect when you approach it to take the
pizza and then it charges your card and
done and done
seems alright to me so the I don't know
maybe I'm just thinking about the people
factor this is gonna wipe out an entire
industry of jobs in the car no they
don't
not necessarily conveyors yes robots
like who needs to even make the pizza
anymore
cold shoes everywhere are not gonna have
school money anymore like how many
college students do deliveries for pizza
and stuff just to make a couple extra
bucks they need to learn how to fix
autonomous cars that's going we're doing
a full circle now it's all trades yeah
but
I mean there's gonna be a lot I mean I
love the advanced what we make in
technology but there's also the people
factor of it and the other thing I can't
help but wonder is what happens when
something goes wrong you order pizza but
instead nope you just got that $10,000
fossil watch that somebody else ordered
because the Machine screwed up where's
the liability on that I don't know
there's not people involved so I don't
think there'll be mistakes I'm not too
sure about that
come on now come on now I don't have to
everybody search him for examples I want
to search for example I just I don't
think that it will be one vehicle that
does Amazon deliveries and pizza
delivery that's what you just know it
changes roles but I don't think it must
have passenger seats right it wouldn't
go on run one run and be an uber driver
and a pizza delivery place and like it's
got to be like just interchangeable
today you're the pizza car and it's more
your uber car with the pizza smell in it
and then all of a sudden those people
are gonna crave pizza see again the full
circle nice we'll see how it come how it
comes about but it's interesting yeah
it's very cool I know and we're seeing a
lot of this stuff at CES this week and
and seeing a like all the different
manufacturers that are doing autonomous
vehicles stuff and it's really tough in
yet exciting just to sit down and I want
to do this and I can't do this on the
air but to sit down and kind of think of
predictions of how the technology could
be used on how it could work right
because really it comes down to changing
the paradigm you mentioned about jobs
and things
well when the horse-drawn carriage
became the thing of the past and the
automobile took over people panicked a
lot of people lost jobs but new jobs
were created and the horse population
dropped but you know we can't predict
how the creation of the automobile is
going to change the the industry let
alone the world oh absolutely I mean
we're I mean you look at what we've
accomplished as a society in the last
120 years and you just you kind of go
where are we gonna be in 50 years
because of how quickly it's you know
picking up and yeah you can't predict
these kind of things you can
you can speculate all you want but you
just kind of have to see it play out and
you do the best you can to hope that it
doesn't go awry you know and end up with
some sort of AI that takes over the
world because we're actually screwing it
up and pretty sure that was a movie plot
it's gonna go very well sick big thanks
to Roy W Nash in our community of
viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman
[Music]
[Applause]
