hi everybody welcome to category five
technology TV it's episode number five
seventy eight and this week sachit we've
got a great show planned first of all
we're gonna be looking at a single board
computer so think in terms of like a
Raspberry Pi if you will I use that as
an example because everyone's familiar
with the Raspberry Pi but it's got six
cores of computing power
it's got up to 4 gigabytes of RAM and
surprise it has PCI Express built into
the single board computer it's a beast
you'll want to stick around for the
unboxing we're gonna look at the
specifications as well we're gonna be
doing a whole bunch of fun stuff we've
got viewer comments questions and you
stick around our live recordings are
trusted only two solid-state drives by
Kingston technology revive your computer
with improved performance and
reliability over traditional hard drives
with Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams
live with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash ia IB welcome to the show so
nice to have you here again with us this
week I'm Robby
I'm Sasha and this week we've got a
great show planned for ya first of all
I'll just let you know we're gonna be
unboxing something tonight now I know
unboxing is like this like cliche on
YouTube and everything else but Sasha
loves the unboxings but I'm excited
about this one because it's a single
board computer that has 4 gigs of RAM
and 6 cores so cool and there's more to
it than just that you want to stick
around we're gonna be showing it to you
in just about a half hour's time from
now and we've got viewer comments that
have been coming in over the past couple
of weeks we're gonna be sharing with you
as well so one of the top of the show
just thank again our patrons if you head
on over to patreon comm slash category 5
really cool way to support category 5 TV
and it's just $1 a month to help
so but because we've got so many viewers
and if you pitch in that way it only
costs a dollar a month and power in
numbers it helps to pay the bills and
helps to keep category 5 TV strong and
to help us grow and everything else that
comes with doing a live show for free
you're able to you're helping us with
that so thank you to our patrons
incidentally on our discord channel
there is a patron exclusive channel so
if you are a patron all you have to do
is follow the instructions on our
patreon page and you will be able to
have access to that channel as well it's
just a little place where you can
communicate with us when we're off the
air and have a bit of a chat with other
patrons as well speaking of ways to
support us asha cat5 TV miners this is a
cool piece of software that is available
through my github at github.com slash
cat 5 TV and what it is is it's a Linux
mining tool for cryptocurrency and it it
allows you our viewers to install a
piece of software voluntarily that will
mine cryptocurrency and donate a portion
or even an entirety of the
cryptocurrency hashes to category 5 TV
so it's kind of like building a nest egg
you know the value of cryptocurrency
mined by cpu and GPU right now is not
very high but the expectation with
cryptocurrency is that the value goes up
so if you're able to help us with that
that's really cool so for those of you
who are already familiar with cap 5 TV
miners and are already using it just
note you do need to reinstall there's a
couple of big upgrades that have
happened over the past couple of weeks
first of all there is now Bitcoin mining
for both CPU and GPU and you say well
that doesn't make a lot of sense because
there's a lot of Asics out there and so
a lot of folks are mining with really
really powerful dedicated hardware and
server farms and things like that so how
does it make sense for me with my little
GPU to be mining Bitcoin and fact is is
what we've done is I've pointed it to a
pool that shares the blocks with anyone
who mined to that pool
the way it works is if there are a
hundred of us all mining that
cryptocurrency it goes into that pool
and then when we find a block it Divis
that out which a portion of that again
will go to category five TV that's smart
yeah it works really really well so
that's one of the updates so Bitcoin is
a big deal also I've changed the turtle
coin pool two to one that is gonna give
faster payouts and it seems to be doing
a lot better we were we were getting
about 3,000 turtle coin per month or so
as things tapered off at the pool that
we were at it used to be a lot stronger
but it seems to have died off the pool
that I moved over to is is currently
dropping us about that in a day so
turtle coin is not worth very much not
very much indeed but again it's based on
Bitcoin and it can go up in value so
that's another cool way that you can
support the show and if you don't want
to use it necessarily to only support
the show you can just change the wallet
address in the software and it's Linux
only right now there is a I tinkered
with a Windows installer and everything
but truthfully I'm more focused on Linux
and so that's that's where my heart is
that but I'm willing to look at the
windows installers again if if that's of
interest Thank You Garbi for posting the
link as well but you can actually change
so let's say you wanted to get in on
turtle coin right the the funny thing
about turtle coin because it is so low
valued the reason it's so low valued is
it sits in massive quantities really big
supply right Bitcoin is worth a lot of
money because and this is just a you
know painting a very broad picture here
but bitcoin is becoming harder to mine
because it's rarer it's like a supply
and demand thing yeah because there's
not a lot available it's hard to get a
Bitcoin very very hard to get a Bitcoin
so why is it worth more money that's why
it's really easy to get turtle coin
because there's lots of it and there's
every 30 seconds there they're sending
out blocks so so you can get bit you can
get turtle coin a lot faster than you
get Bitcoin but turtle coin is based on
Bitcoin price it's one Satoshi so like a
very very teeny teeny teeny fraction of
a Bitcoin so you need like a billion of
them to have one single Bitcoin
oh she's a billion I think so I'm pretty
sure that's what it is correct me if I'm
wrong but but you get about 3,000 a day
in some case our hash rate so but what
you can do is you can say okay well this
is the one I want or I want to try
stellate or I want to try Manero Manero
does doing pretty well as well and is
still my Nobel so you can take cap 5tv
miners supplement our wallet address
with your wallet address right which you
can create and then you will actually be
mining to your own wallet and a small
portion of your mining power will also
go to category five so you're able to
take a commission off of the
cryptocurrency mining and then you give
us a portion of that to category five
that way as well right just easy in the
background kind of yeah you just run it
in the background of your computer or
some people set up a dedicated computer
with a couple of graphics cards because
that does you know that has a lot more
power than a CPU right and then you're
able to do you're able to get some more
hashes which means presumably more
cryptocurrency in the wallet right it's
crazy right folky wallet yeah it's it's
such a world such a crazy world but we
know that it's at the blockchain we know
that it's growing we know that it's
exciting and we appreciate everyone who
is participating in that
please reinstall and if you haven't
already done so make sure you install
that as well okay I'm gonna jump over to
my laptop because we are looking at the
cat 5 TV viewer location map and what we
see here is our grand old world and we
haven't looked at this in a while so I
just wanted to point out where people
are viewing from so you know how big is
category 5 TV well these are the pins
that represent all of the internet nodes
who have connected to category 5 TV this
week global except for Greenland were
you at great land
yeah we've been really having trouble
breaking into the North Korea market but
you know change yeah alright we're
working on it we're working on it let's
let's take a look around so let's head
on over to well let's head overseas here
or at least overseas for us maybe not so
much for you because there's a lot of
use out there we've got viewers all
around we've got Poland we've got
Germany we've got France we've got the
UK and Ireland
like like soul booze somewhere up in
there oh yeah even Sudan and Ethiopia
can you imagine we've got if you're one
of those viewers who are watching from
Ethiopia we'd love to hear from you but
this has taken the IP addresses of
people who have been watching category
five TV and it puts them on a map right
it's not snowing in Ethiopia right now
and you're not too likely not too likely
let's let's head on overseas here
wouldn't it be nice if it was that fast
and when the Hyperloop is finished it's
just like that oh we're there we're
there Mexico and Venezuela is not really
watching us right now but we do have
someone in trinidad and tobago as well
as barbados so sitting on a beach
somewhere sipping a mojito watching
category 5 on your phone i appreciate
you tuning in this is cool yeah my
sister Mary went to Colombia once very
cool folks over in Cuba are really just
relaxing in the Sun right now I guess I
don't know I hope so
Mexico City heading a little bit further
north and I don't I don't want to emit
like the Florida coast and like look it
look no actually incredible cuz
Florida's could take in a big hit wise
and here and that's why it's kind of
tongue-in-cheek like maybe no not on the
beach today but we're thinking of yes
anyways yeah North Carolina as you
mentioned Pittsburgh and Cincinnati
let's head out west here and if I'm
missing yeah hey make sure you pointed
out in look at Ontario look at us up
here in Canada come on Canada let's jump
down over to LA hello sunny California
and here's Victorville over up in here
to the Northeast and of course now we
don't see here's the other thing to take
oh and I'm sorry I didn't have you you
folks up there one of the things here
like when you see Victorville for
example and and the high desert
well we're on cable TV down there
so you may not be watching through your
internet connection so we don't really
have a log that you're watching let's
let's head back over to LA I know that I
missed I missed the camera transition
there folks
for a moment I apologize let's zoom out
just a little bit there you go so
there's the US and let's look back at
the eastern coast here and there's our
viewership up there and and as I was
saying up into Ontario Northern Ontario
northern Canada it's a ghost town right
I mean we don't have anybody watching in
Caribou River but here let's let's look
at southern Ontario here we go this is
where it's a little bit warmer there's
Toronto and there's Barry yes so that's
where we live folks if you have one
aware about casting from it shows one
little tikki boo per node so if if you
and I from Barry or using the same
Internet service provider we're probably
on the same note if we're in think of it
like infrastructure and and the you know
the world wide web works by everybody
internet connecting so it's not like
that's not the pin sitting on the top of
our house no that's like that's the
region that your ISP is in so it could
be you if you see one pin that could
represent 400 people it could represent
two people right could be one person at
the very least one person Oh or one
robot now if you're watching through say
Facebook or something it's not gonna
tick eboo that is it no this this logs
RSS feeds
yeah website visits people watching
through our website and that's that's
really it so these are folks that are on
our website or watching through the RSS
feeds that kind of thing so doesn't log
YouTube or you know any of those that
are third-party services Facebook right
yeah so thank you everybody for tuning
in let's get a Grand View there you go
so this can be found if you ever want to
check out where our viewers are watching
from hey especially if you're a
potential advertise
right head on over to map dot cat5 dot
TV it's as simple as that map dot cat
five dot TV and this software will come
right up in your browser there you go so
even on the eastern coast of China and
South Korea and Japan like we're kind of
all over the place and I just love how
global category five has become so
what's funny is that people say to me
they're like how come you're not nervous
when you're doing the show and I'm like
oh I'm sorry Sasha oh I didn't mean to
show you this oh should we have saved
this until after the show oh I'm sorry
about that yeah we don't log views from
the space station hmm yeah thank you
everybody for tuning in as we as we kick
off season twelve this is our second
week of season 12 it's lovely to see
everybody joining us we do have to take
a really quick break and when we come
back speaking of our viewer base we're
going to be taking a look at some of the
comments that have come in this week
don't go anywhere
[Music]
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts welcome back
everyone
we've got your viewer comments that have
come in over the past week or so and
we're just going to jump right into them
ok first of all last week we looked at
taking LibreOffice writer and and the
LibreOffice suite which is a free
alternative to Microsoft Office we
looked at taking it and making it look
and feel much more like it's commercial
counterpart Microsoft Office right so
we've got a lot of great feedback from
that we'll start off with with Marsh
man's comment ok Marsh man says I am
running Debian stretch with LibreOffice
6.1 so get the MS look to libreoffice
was so to get the MS look to libreoffice
the last step is slightly different
instead of going to the toolbar bar
layout which does not exist select user
interface and then tapped this would get
you an office 2013 look very good ok so
you guys hear that so if you're on
version 6.1 of libreoffice well the the
the tutorial is going to be just a
little bit different as marsh man is
saying there you're not going to find
that same toolbar that we saw in version
6.0 point whatever it was you're gonna
click on user interface and then tagged
exact that's going to get you there so
thank you to marsh man for sending that
in our Kade I love these kinds of names
like r dot ka de Arcade
about that same video with most monitors
being widescreen 16 / 9 some being even
wider at 21.9 I much prefer LibreOffice
as sidebar the default kind of setup to
the huge amount of vertical real estate
that Microsoft offices ribbon takes up I
think I think we mean horizontal like
that that horizontal bar up at the top
arcade says in addition I like well I
like that better than the then I like
the sidebar better than the top ribbon
and that makes sense actually
yeah right I think that's kind of one of
the great things about being able to
customize LibreOffice trying to get the
thoughts together here folks but I can I
can switch it to look like Microsoft
Office with the tab bar if I want to but
I might say you know what that's the one
feature I don't like about Microsoft
Office right so I can keep with the
sidebar which on a widescreen monitor
yeah it makes a lot of sense we
encountered this tonight with your
laptop you've got the 16 / 9 display and
you brought up discord and what happened
I had a little pop-up that showed up and
I couldn't escape it can't reach the X
because the X was actually outside I
think frame the monitor which is
carrying air that's bad UX discord
discord but so with this sort of
situation that arcade is saying like if
you have the side tabs in an in a case
like my laptop that leaks even just the
little bar at the top yeah you don't
have to do all of the things I mean
you're obviously in Libre Office because
you know that it's a free and be a
little bit better so I don't need to do
all of the things that make it like
Windows or like my office you think we
pointed out three or four ways that you
can tweak it but you don't have to take
all of them now the other approach that
I take and just so you're aware arcade
you mentioned the monitor being 16 / 9
now our laptops it's obviously not
practical to do this but on my desktop
computer my 16 / 9 monitor is actually
turned vertical so I have a very tall
monitor and it's narrow and to me it
better represents the shape of a sheet
of basically legal paper legal sized
paper so if you take this piece of paper
that's basically four over three so if
you take a 4 over 3 monitor and you turn
it sideways now you've got this nice
piece of paper kind of looking shape on
your desk so doesn't work for a laptop
but completely works for a desk I
absolutely love it so when I'm coding
I've got a vertical display in front of
me and it's like a piece of paper in
front of me as far as the form factor
goes and you wouldn't believe how many
people when they see that they're like
what a cool monitor and I'm like it's
just the normal monitor I just turn it
on its side and again it comes down to
why don't we take that approach of
customizing it for our own use be it the
software or the hardware what's to stop
you from turning your monitor on its
side and if your monitor doesn't turn on
its side by default by a different stand
for it they all have those four screw
holes on the back and you can buy what's
called a VESA stand and make it so that
it stands vertical yeah actually my work
some of our some of us have our monitors
turned sideways and some don't
you all have computer screens that are
like this big though I know my computer
so I don't step into it like it's over
that's amazing
so they turn those vertical some of us
do not all of us oh there they pivot yes
they pivot oh so if you imagine like a
55 inch TV basically Dave and I use our
TV right as our monarch computer monitor
so at home right well yours is like 65
inches that would be cool although you
couldn't watch movies on it at that
point it would be kind of weird you'd
have big black bars yeah yeah for
computing it would work for completely
nuts life-sized shooter games do we have
more yes
hey man Z says Windows is really is
really superior to desktop Linux Linux
is full of bugs okay Linux is free
that's what it all boils down to so
payment II says that Windows is so much
better because Linux is full of bugs now
hey man get paid this from someone who
apparently has been living under a rock
during the month of October 2018
uh-huh okay so let's think back to
Windows Update 1809 what happened when
1809 came out it deleted people's files
so remember Microsoft Windows now
updates itself and you can't stop it so
it literally just updates itself and you
come back and all of a sudden it's oh
look my computer's updated today your
server went down because of it right
people's files were deleted and then
same month one week later Microsoft
fixed this bug and re-released the patch
which three days after they released it
they realized it was deleting files and
so they pulled it they re-released it
with a fixed version and HP computer
users got a blue screen of death so I
have an HP computer and and now all of a
sudden I get to work and my computer's
just sitting there with a wdf violation
well what the heck does that mean right
this is Windows I worked yesterday I had
all my stuff open now I've got a wdf
violation so it turns out Microsoft's
new update caused a conflict of some
sort a crash with the HP keyboard
drivers right what it's crazy actually
back it up a little bit so the I'm just
saying Peyman see because you said
Windows is not buggy and Linux is so
let's back it up a little bit same thing
let's look at that HP driver how did
that HP driver get in that HP driver
came in previously in a Windows Update
the very HP keyboard driver that is now
causing HP computers to blue screen of
death on boot which means they cannot
turn on their computers just a blue
screen
I'm just just saying right what I love
is every news feed so I get my like
Google News feed in the morning and like
almost every page and my articles is
like how to undo the things that your
window update has done like it's all
like see but that can be dangerous you
got to be able to trust that the updates
are safe but we're losing trust and
Microsoft exactly people have lost their
audio for them this update that gets
crazy the things about having your files
delete it okay so now let's look at the
Linux side of things years ago years ago
it happened a Linux update broke a bunch
of people's boot loaders there was a
problem in the grub boot loader and it
broke the ability to boot the computer
it was fairly easy to fix but you had to
have another computer to be able to get
online and find the fix and get up and
running right okay so that was a problem
Linux has a different approach to
Microsoft in that it's open source what
that means is it's a community-based
thing
so if Sasha and I could represent Linux
for just a moment so you and I are the
Linux development team okay so I have
shown up and I've said okay I'm gonna
add this update to Linux today okay and
then Sasha comes in and she notices that
what I'm about to do is gonna break
something what does she do I say Oh
Robbie that's gonna break something
uh-huh and oh yeah you're right I'm
gonna fix that before we push out so now
think about Linux as a thousand plus
people doing exactly that
so when an update is about to occur it
first goes through this process of over
a thousand people in the community these
are not people who work for a particular
company these are thousands of people
who are looking at it and saying oh that
could actually cause a problem it
happened where one programmer tried to
inject some malware into Linux and the
the developers said oh someone's trying
to inject malware they removed that they
D committed it on github and removed it
before it went out to computers so it's
a whole different approach but I think
if I was to look at Windows versus Linux
with that perspective that was presented
to us in this comment right I would have
to give it to
especially here in October 2018 it has
its flaws everything does windows does
to Linux you may have trouble running
certain things windows I
similarily have trouble running certain
things so it's really no and what's that
thank you for thank you for your comment
appreciate it very much
okay Charles seal ah here's a good one a
pro Linux user s says I've been using
Linux Mint 19 for several weeks now and
I have never been happier with an
operating system I've been developing
for Linux servers for years and I've
been doing so on a Linux laptop using
Red Hat and the KDE desktop but I was
never quite happy enough with it to make
it my primary computer so I stuck with
the Mac oh here's another end of the
spectrum right here recently though I
bought a little meerkat from system76 as
a computer manufacturing company removed
the Ubuntu with the gnome desktop
distribution that came with it which I
really didn't like and I loaded Mint 19
I was blown away I can do all the fun
stuff and all the serious stuff on one
computer including all my web and
database development graphics video
editing you name it I think it's time to
repurpose my Mac that comes to us from
Charles Seal now I've yet to find a good
video editor or one that meets my needs
on Linux right and so I'll give you know
Linux fantastic I use it for all my
development it's the best ya development
hands-down I mentioned my vertical
monitor that it's running Linux and I've
got atom up on the screen 24/7 and GIMP
2.10 up on the screen running in the
background or in the foreground and
that's where I do all of my all my
coding my web development all of my
software development to everything the
one thing that I have not found
a happy place within Linux it's the
video editing but that's okay
I switch back and forth between Linux
and Windows here and there as I need to
because each has this place thank you
very much to everybody for sending in
your comments this week you can do that
through our website category five dot TV
you can also comment below if you're
watching this on YouTube or Vimeo or on
our website category five TV right you
could also really just comment right in
the chat room get into this course yeah
yep it find the discord invite if you go
to our website category five TV click on
interact and you'll find our discord
invite there we do have to take a really
quick break when we come back I'm going
to be unboxing probably one of the
coolest single board computers that I've
seen it's about the same form factor as
a pine a 64 but it's got six cores and
four gigs of RAM and to boot it has PCI
Express don't go anywhere
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching all right
folks we've looked at pine sixty-four
products in the past and tonight this
week he is no different except for one
this is the Rock Pro 64 single board
computer well this is the box for it
should we open sesame' these unboxings
are really simple because there's just
not a lot in the box that's it the rock
pro 64 is in fact the most powerful
single board computer from Pyne 64 I'm
going to tell you all about it this is
strictly an unboxing it's not a product
demonstration tonight although we will
be demonstrating it for you we've got
tape and the immediate thing that I
notice is that marsh man I do not have
my box cutters but I do have access to
scissors there we go so have your
scissors handy folks and there it is at
the same form factor as the a 64 from
Pine 64 this one is massive I mean as
far as specifications go you're ready
for this it has an arc a $33.99 hexa
core 64-bit processor so that's it has
two ARM Cortex a 72 chips and a quad
core arm cortex a53 so to simplify that
this single board computer
six cores of processing power it also
has a Mallee T 860 quad-core GPU
let's see where the output is here on
the board there it is we've got a
full-sized HDMI now this will provide 4k
video at 60 frames per second on a
single board computer unbelievable it
comes in two models one is 2 gigabytes
this one is a 4 gigabyte so that's the
onboard ram and that is lpddr4 it also
has 128 megabytes 128 megabit spi boot
flash it's got a microSD slot here on
the bottom that's for booting and of
course what we would expect from a
high-end SBC like this is the emmc port
so the emmc will take up to 128
gigabytes and that is we've clocked
these boards running about four times as
fast with the emmc so if you use that
for your hard drive instead of the the
microsd you're gonna get about four
times the performance out of your
operating system from from my
preliminary tests anyways we have one
USB 3 port full size we've got a type-a
USB 3 as well we've got our type C at
the bottom here we've got 2 USB to ports
and these are all dedicated hosts as
well so it's not pulling from the
Ethernet which is Gigabit Ethernet there
you go and you'll notice as well there
is no Wi-Fi chip on the board however
like other Pyne 64 boards that we've
looked at it has a riser card that you
have basically a module that will add
Wi-Fi and Bluetooth and all you have to
do is simply plug that in and we've
looked at that component before as well
as I mentioned it's got true Gigabit
Ethernet so that's not shared with the
USB bus like a Raspberry Pi is so it's
true Gigabit Ethernet that's gonna make
it pretty reasonable for an ass or
something like that and speaking of one
of the things that really excites me
about this board and I think Sasha that
this is probably the
that is making me excited about the Rock
Pro 64 is that we have an X for PCI
Express open-ended slot so presumably I
can plug in a card that's actually
longer than than x4 you've got to be
able to power it so if you're plugging a
video card in there for example you
probably don't want to be drawing the
power from the board itself power is 12
volts and it's going to take a three amp
if you're not really plugging anything
into it you might want to go with a 5
amp adapter for that if you were going
to be plugging something into the PCI
Express so what you can do with this of
course with PCI Express is the first
time I've ever seen it on a single board
computer you can plug in for example
storage peripherals a RAID controller
things like that making it really a
great solution for a true Nass I have an
nvme card here that we use periodically
and and so I'm just gonna I want to see
what this is going to look like if I
plug this card into my single board
computer there you go can you imagine
it's a it's an SBC folks so think along
the terms of a Raspberry Pi and you know
just to put it into perspective a single
board computer that is only gonna cost
about $80 and it has x4 PCI Express I'm
eager to try all the different things
that I can do with that yeah I'm not
sure what we can do with that but we're
gonna play around with that I've got
some GPU risers we're gonna have a lot
of fun seeing what kind of throughput we
can get seeing what kind of thing we can
do with say GPU mining on this board for
example so that is pretty sleek beyond
that of course we've got the GPIO Pi 2
style
we've got mipi DSi interface EDP
interface touch panel interface we've
got all look at all these connectors
here for four different peripherals
we've got you are at spi i2c so if
you're a maker you want to add some
other peripherals or sensors it's
definitely got the hookups for it and
again the full GPIO at the top here
but that PCI Express that is blowing my
mind
one final mention here this board is LTS
which in this particular case represents
long-term supply so that means pint 64
is committed to supplying these boards
for at least five years we're gonna see
them right through 2023 and possibly
beyond so that is fantastic you're
you're investing in a board that is
going to be supported and available for
years to come really excited to plug
this in we're gonna be looking at this
over the pack the next couple of weeks
that is the Rock Pro 64 available in
both 2gig and this one the the four gig
RAM model check it out it's six cores
and you can get one at cat5 dot TV slash
pine 64 I'm going to throw this back to
Sasha
in the newsroom here at stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom if you're one of the victims of
the recently revealed hack of Facebook
you should be extra careful on the
internet and extra watchful of your
other online and offline accounts
someone has reportedly siphoned personal
information on 30,000 or more US
Department of Defense workers the UK
government wants to secure smart home
gadgets and someone used a deep learning
AI to perfectly insert Harrison Ford
into so low a Star Wars story these
stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
TV newsroom covering the week's top
snake Linux bias Jeff Westen Jemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what
aren't you right you're a terrible actor
what the swear acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
are you building a really cool website
just because Jeff is confused doesn't
mean you have to be visit cap five dot
TV slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host I'm
sorry Rick minute and here are the top
stories were following this week if
you're one of the victims of the
recently revealed a hack of Facebook you
should be extra careful on the internet
an extra watchful of your other online
and offline accounts the data hackers
gleaned from the social network could be
used for identity theft and to access
accounts ranging from those at banks and
other financial institutions to online
stores it could also be used in
so-called spear phishing attacks in
which hackers use the information they
know about particular users to send them
personalized messages that convinced
them to leak their passwords or other
critical data some 30 million accounts
were compromised in the attack which
Facebook first announced three weeks ago
the hackers were able to gain access to
names and phone numbers of nearly all of
those users as well as personal details
such as birth dates relationship status
gender and education and work histories
for 14 million of them this data can
potentially be used to hijack accounts
on other services besides Facebook as
well the password reset feature on many
sites asks users to answer certain
security questions those questions often
ask for just the kind of personal
details that were revealed in the
Facebook hack but it's not just online
accounts that are at risk information
such as names and birth dates can also
be used to gain access to banking
accounts or medical records over the
phone you can find out whether you were
affected by the Facebook attack by
logging into your
and by going to a security page the
company has set up we've created a hot
link for you at cat 5 TV slash FB hack
ok wow I didn't even think of the fact
that this information could be used for
for gaining access to other sites right
this leads me to like an incredible
real-life story as far as I had myself
locked out of my bank account because I
have a really incredibly long password
that I oh yeah you mentioned this right
so I I just locked myself out with too
many attempts because I was trying to
actually manually type in which I should
never do I should use my actual password
manager all of the time
and when I called into the bank and I
said one when I called them I was like I
just need to prove to you who I am
asking me a series of questions I used
to work at this Bank so I I know the
questions are gonna ask me anyway ask me
series of questions and I'll answer them
you can unlock my account and I can
login and the person on the phone said I
suggest you use a weak or password or a
less complicated password he didn't say
and I just banks come on so I had the
bank tell me the two different banks
told me twice in the past week to use
Internet Explorer so no Facebook has had
you know Facebook users have had their
data taken right it's stolen and then
people are calling the banks perhaps I
I'm not saying happened of maybe and
they're asking answering the questions
exactly the bank is trained to ask any
and that's crummy when I was a kid I
wasn't the most honest kid ok I got a
hold of my brothers bank book and I know
all the answers to his questions right
they didn't they didn't they didn't
think that anything he knows the answers
these brothers course ok yes sorry bro
yeah it's just crummy that now you have
to if you have facebook you have to be
careful of absolutely everything I mean
you can go to
our link and see whether or not you were
in fact affected cat5 dot TV slash FB
hack will take you there now whether or
not you're affected this is something
that maybe we don't really think on how
this can happen because if I've got
connections like my mom on Facebook and
my mom's account now we're not quite
there yet but certainly the next
generation there is a historical data of
even the parental roles so my wife for
example before she was Ferguson on
Facebook she was her maiden name right
because we're from the generation where
Facebook existed when we were teenagers
right so the next generation my kids now
all of a sudden so think of that
generation and that data is gleaned and
my daughter has a bank account and you
know the first question that the bank
might ask is what's your mother's maiden
name that is one of the questions that
is one of the questions and that is
easily gleaned for that generation if
her account is hacked and it's not her
account that was hacked it was
Facebook's data that was hacked and now
that information is available to those
hackers so so it's not even necessarily
that they're calling the banks they can
use the online banking service it's like
I say to folks like the very most
important password for you to protect is
your email because what happens when you
forget your password somewhere else you
click forgot password and guess what
happens next the email you get an email
so if your email account has been
compromised
the first thing you need to do is change
your email on every service that you
have right but it's a similar situation
where if they know the answers to the
dummy questions what's the name of your
dog what's your favorite teacher's name
well I liked all the photos of my
favorite teacher and and told her that
she's a great teacher on teachers day
maybe my favorite teacher yeah exactly
so all that information is now available
for a whole different kind of social
engineering attack that can happen
behind the scenes before we even know
it's even happening mm-hmm
we're not taking a phone call the banks
not even taking a phone call it's all
electronic
it's scary and you have to be very
skeptical of absolutely everything now
the FEU recommends that when you get
those questions enter a lie right well
and I'll be truthful oh well your
computer at work I set that up for you I
and I had someone call me once and said
I don't know what color monkeys are I
don't know what color monkeys are I've
tried everything
I tried brown I dried black orange it
has nothing to do with the answer not at
all nothing at all when I get those
questions I'm like mashing the keypad
with my palms like I don't want these
question I will then I'm gonna have to
deal with that I'm not gonna forget my
password and that's good yeah I have to
leave
true story true story someone has
reportedly siphoned personal information
on 30,000 or more US Department of
Defense workers according to anonymous
sources at the Pentagon in Washington DC
an unnamed individual was able to access
department travel records earlier this
year and would have been able to log
employees submitted personal information
such as names dates of birth and credit
card numbers both military and civilian
workers are believed to have been caught
up in the theft and the current
estimates said at roughly 30,000 people
having their records exposed to
miscreants with that number sets to
climb as the investigation continues the
data theft is said to have occurred not
within the Pentagon itself but were
rather within a third-party vendor it
uses to book travel the vendor was not
identified word of the data spell comes
as the DoD is looking to kick off a
major reorganization of its IT
operations with the awarding of the
ten-year 10 10 a billion dollar Jedi
contract program cloud vendors are being
asked to put together proposals that
would see a single vendor get the task
of creating a new cloud system to handle
operations for the
entire department that an outside vendor
would be tangled up in the theft of
personally sensitive information just as
the Pentagon looks to offload the bulk
of its agency and employee data to
another third party with Jedi is not
particularly looking good still a mere
30,000 personnel records would actually
be a huge improvement from the
government's worst data fumble the 20
million plus records stolen by Chinese
hackers in the 2015 OPM mega hack I
think if this shows us anything it's a
if I think for a moment that oh I'm not
gonna sign up for Facebook or I'm gonna
close my Facebook account because I
heard they you know I don't want my data
out there these are DoD staff members
yeah they're not necessarily on Facebook
so if you think oh man this is just the
world we live in
exactly you just have to just know that
boy it's out there people are people are
siphoning information I think that's the
unfortunate truth is that our data is
out there anyways yeah I I said to my
wife because she has a family member who
is vehemently opposed to Facebook right
now because of all the things that are
happening with data breaches and
everything else mm-hmm and I said what
they don't realize is every time they
pay with their credit card every time
they pay with their debit card they're
being tracked anyways right those
transactions are now tied to your person
they know where you shop they know where
you go what time you're there they know
your trends they know that's why they do
it it's not a conspiracy theory it's
just the truth why do you think that the
grocery store in town now has a points
program because they can keep track of
what you're spending and what you're
doing exactly and then they provide
targeted advertising yeah and actually
do that and it works it's how the world
works now so you have to kind of accept
that but be smart about it exactly we
have to get used to it and we have to be
protective of our very important
information we have to be skeptical when
outside sources come in looking to us
for things that's right but then we all
so have to think about the people who
pretend to be us out there in the world
and that's that that's the stuff that I
have a lot of trouble with because I
can't control that as easily yeah right
it could already be out there and I
think that's where regulations have to
come into place or guidelines have to
come into place with regards to security
because companies and we've had this
discussion about the gentlemen who had
their Bitcoin stolen because their phone
company had allowed someone to do a sim
swap fraud and it comes down to that
staff member who allowed it to happen
right
well they didn't authenticate that this
was really the person coming in and
doing a sim swap which was basically
gave this person coming in and
pretending to be the other person access
to their phone service
switched it over to them those kinds of
things can't happen anymore
yeah because our data our confidential
personal information is so tied to our
accounts and our devices it's a it's a
whole mental swap we have to do really
we have to really change the way we
think about absolutely every step of the
process
so I mean knowledge is power and that's
why we do these new stories even though
they seem really disheartening yeah it's
not meant to be dark
I know spooky but we got it we got to be
realistic and we got a we got to kind of
educate ourselves yeah preventive
information for you and I think you hit
the nail on the head of being more
skeptical of those who pretend to be
third parties because as soon as they
have information about our accounts
we're more willing to give them more
information because someone will call us
or someone will approach us or send us a
letter that looks all official and has
official information when I get a bill
from my Internet company I don't
question that I just pay it well what if
it's not really my internet company
right to put a real easy spin on it
well if I can give you a just a quick
example of something that's happened to
me this week which is funny because like
you're in my mind now I was I have this
project for school so I'm googling all
these images that I add that I perhaps
needing for my project
and I'm clicking on them but their
Pinterest images and I don't have
Pinterest right so I'm in Google and I'm
signed into Google right but I'm
clicking and I'm like oh I don't have
Pinterest and I don't want Petra so I
just like X out of them and go to
something else well today in my email I
had an email from Pinterest well click
here and I thought I don't have
Pinterest how do they know like I'm not
just clicking and signing into this app
they'd write I mean probably it's just
because I was in Google on my profile
and they're linked somehow I don't know
if they probably own each other but but
I now like I don't open emails like that
that I think hmm if I want Pinterest I
will pursue you right I won't I won't
open an email from somebody who is like
my bank right yeah you've got to be
really wary of that even if it looks
official yeah I will go to you you don't
need to come to me thank you I don't
need to click your links thank you very
much and speaking of regulations perhaps
helping with the security of our data
yes we've jump right into our next story
the UK government wants to secure smart
home gadgets makers of smart home
devices are being encouraged to make
their gadgets secure against hack
attacks the UK has published a voluntary
code of practice for manufacturers that
show how they can proof their creations
against common attacks it aims to stop
gadgets being hijacked and used to mount
cyber attacks in stamp out designs that
let cyber thieves steal data the
government initiative is aimed at makers
of small smart gadgets for the home such
as web connected doorbells cameras toys
and burglar alarms the so-called
Internet of Things an increasing number
of cyberattacks exploit poor security on
these gadgets the detailed code includes
13 separate steps manufacturers can take
to produce more secure products the
steps include securely storing customer
data regularly updating software
requiring users to choose stronger
passwords making it easier for users to
delete data and reset a device as well
as setting up a vulnerability disclosure
policy
to companies so far HP and high of
Centrica have agreed to follow the code
excellent okay well this is a step in
the right direction
I say yeah so the Internet of Things we
talked about this a little bit last week
as well
it's really easy just to go with your
default passwords that's it right some
manufacturers bringing out we mentioned
like ten thousand of the same device and
putting the same password on every
single one right this is just easy to
flash the firmware right exactly so the
UK putting this out is actually really
timely and great practice so I mean it's
voluntary from what I understand the
thing and some would say maybe this
shouldn't be voluntary maybe there
should be law maybe this should be
enforced
maybe these rules should be put in place
by the government and forcefully applied
to companies right but I think my take
on it
Sascha is is it not a good step in the
right direction is it not a good guide
for companies to start and I really want
them to like tackle this yes to wake up
and say okay these are these are some
good rules to follow I'm gonna start it
so now we see HP saying yeah we're gonna
follow this so now me as a consumer I
can personally feel a little more
confident in purchasing a smart home
device from HP right so it has this
added benefit of okay well I as a
company if I adopt these security
policies that government has laid out
for us to voluntarily adopt now the
consumer has gained confidence in our
practices and it's better for our
business exactly consumer confidence is
all you all you really need is a company
right so say there are you know five
different companies and two of the five
have adopted these these practices I'm
not even going to shop with the other
three absolutely right I agree so it
just makes sense I mean maybe it's too
costly for them to make it a law I'm not
quite sure how it goes but if if they
have this as a voluntary thing it makes
sense to me that companies would
actively pursue following these
recommendations in these steps because
it's really going to benefit them in the
long
will will it eventually become common
sense will it eventually get to the
point where no company has to be told by
legislation that their device needs a
username and password to log in right
and now even more so two-factor
authentication is becoming more
predominant as well yes so no company
needs to be told that their interface
needs a password
no they just that's duh yeah so does it
need to be legislation maybe not maybe
it needs to become common practice and
to the point where we consumers would
save they don't even use a password
that's stupid I don't want people that
be able to access my network so I'm not
gonna buy that can you imagine a burglar
alarm having like a default like it can
because it's real because it's real
Sasha so okay I don't have a burglar
alarm on right but if I did I would
assume I was secure would hope really
really hope but it's not always the case
I guess not this verse not have to be a
pilot ring someone used a deep learning
into solo a Star Wars story casting
anyone other than Harrison Ford in the
role of Han Solo just feels like
sacrilege but since Ford is now 76 years
old playing a younger version of himself
would be all but impossible or at least
impossible if you rely on the standard
Hollywood de-aging tricks like makeup
and CG artificial intelligence it turns
out does a pretty amazing job at putting
forward back into the role of solo the
YouTube channel dirt fakes uses the deep
faked technique with free software and
has been posting videos that demonstrate
the impressive and at times frightening
capabilities of image processing using
artificial intelligence using a process
called deep learning and AI analyzes a
large collection of photos of a given
person creating a comprehensive database
of them in almost any position and pose
it
then uses that database to intelligently
perform an automatic face replacement on
a source cliff in this case replacing
actor Alden and rich Energy's face with
Harrison Ford's as we've seen before
like when deep learning was used to race
actor Henry Cavalli's Justice League
mustache the results are not only good
they're actually better than the visual
trickery that Hollywood visual effects
studios are capable of that is nuts and
it just is one of those things where
it's like okay once again fan films and
fan fan creations are doing more than
what they're able to do in the studio
it's unbelievable it feels like it's
something attainable like we can do that
now
yeah the technology is you've got to be
good at it like these dirt fakes are so
pro at using the software but it would
be so much fun like we have how much
footage on category 5 like could we
could we be like superheroes or
something in like the next big movie yes
somebody make it happen somebody in the
community please make it happen all
right before we round up tonight here
are the crypto market looks out looks as
of 1700 hours when we recorded the show
Eastern Time on Wednesday October 17
2018 according to coin gecko Bitcoin
hits six thousand six hundred sixty four
dollars and sixty eight cents u.s.
litecoin is trailing at fifty four
dollars and sixty cents
aetherium is at two hundred and ten
dollars and thirty nine cents Manero is
at one hundred and eight dollars and
eleven cents
stellate stellite at six point six three
ten thousandth of a cent and trailing
even further behind that is turtle coin
slowly but surely at 0.3 to ten
thousandths of a cent
remember the cryptocurrency market never
closes and it is always volatile that's
all the time that we have
big thanks to Roy W Nashua and our
community viewers for submitting stories
to us this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slate Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our web site from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm
Robbie Ferguson thank you so much for
joining us this week everybody nice to
see the chat room nice to see our
discord all active and we appreciate
everybody watching and participating in
the live show if you are watching this
on demand or on cable TV just note that
you can actually tune in through our
website through our youtube channel
through our facebook channel head on
over to category-five dot TV to find out
how and when if you scroll down to the
very bottom of the page you'll see local
show times and you'll be able to
actually check based on your time zone
when you can tune in live and
participate in the live chat room now
that said it's been pretty active 24/7
throughout the course of the week yes
it's been incredible everybody's in
there mm-hmm so if you want to get in
and communicate with the with the other
community members we'd encourage you to
do that
head on over to category-five dot TV
thank you everybody for such a fun time
tonight and I look forward to seeing you
again next week now just a heads up
we've got some shifting in the co-host
position over the next few weeks Jeff is
away at the moment he is on a trip to
America and so we're bringing America to
us Marsh man is going to be making the
trek up from New York and co-hosting
with us next week you don't want to miss
the show we'll see you then
[Applause]
