here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsrooms a
tiny drone bill to pollinate flowers has
been built in Japan a college network
has been attacked with its own insecure
I OT devices a new implant method could
give amputees direct nerve control of
artificial limbs have a vizio tv spying
on you and a passenger carrying drone is
ready to fly in dubai these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere now
here's another great way you can support
the shows you love for the category 5 TV
network by shopping at gear back that's
right Jeff cap 5 TV / gearbest it's an
online store for the geek streak in him
or the loved ones well of course I mean
especially your loved ones right because
cat5 TV / gearbest quite frankly has all
of the greatest tech gifts that you
could ever hope for at rock bottom
prices to that cell phone you bet you
cap 5gb slash gear vest has a wide
assortment of unlocked android cell
phones and tablets global compute
consumer electronics those like a great
gift absolutely from high-tech watches
to action cameras headphones even
virtual reality headsets cat5 TV /
gearbest have you covered they literally
have it all Jeff literally really it's
like a super store right from the
comfort of your own share at your
computer through the interweb
yeah there's no way they have it all
true it's just a bunch of random
electronic except me what about clothes
yep both men and women fashionable
apparel at rock bottom SuperDuper prices
kinda like this well look at this coat
what do you think it's a slimming mock
leather jacket I love it it's available
for less than thirty dollars plus free
shipping a camp five dot TV / gear best
yeah all right you kinda got me there
Wow any other questions for me
definitely now that the winter is past
flying season do they have any good
deals on say to encompass old mine
goodness well check this out dude they
have everything check out over 500
various groans and not only that they're
available marked down by about thirty
two up to sixty-three percent off the
regular price love it what's website
again while you're going to find
gearbest on our partners pages for any
of your favorite category five TV shows
like new every day category five
technology TV the pixel shadow but of
course if you want to shop absolutely
right now and you want to go straight to
the site all you have to do is visit
cat5 TV / gearbest that's easy catch
five dot TV / your back that's right
happy shopping
alright I'm Sasha tomatoes in here the
top stories for the week of februari 20
seconds 2017 an engineer in Japan has
built a 1.6 inch pollinator bought and
successfully tested it in his labs the
drones creator has armed it with paint
brush hairs that are covered in a
special gel sticky enough to pick pollen
up but not so sticky that it holds on to
the pollen when it brushes against
something else they write that his
experiments with the tiny drone show
that the drone can indeed carry pollen
from flower to flower in the way an
insect would though he has yet to
confirm that seeds results from this
pollination well flown by a human pilot
he next hopes to equip the drones with
their own flower recognizing technology
for experts discuss the drones asking
could a fleet of robo pollinators
replace or at least supplement bees one
said there is no substitute substitute
for bees another pointed out that even
if robo bees are developed some flowers
will prove harder to pollinate than
others a third expert thought the
technology could scale though it would
need to be mass-produced and the
engineers we need to develop a reusable
pollen collecting gel but a fourth
expert remained worried that it just
comes skills are becoming too expensive
I'm not sure that's going to be cheap
enough not to make blueberries hundreds
of dollars a pint he says three of those
experts also agreed that the best
solution is just wild bees because
domesticated or not all they have to do
is make sure to set aside enough land
conductive to the bees habitat kumari I
agreed that you agree I the bees just
need a home this sounds like sounds like
Jeff being missing the point entirely
the coolness of a pollinating drunk okay
so here's the problem and this could be
a Jeff mindset of mine but I did watch
black mirror and I know it talked about
this in the past that this TV shows that
faded look terrible so it's probably
terrible yeah okay so let you watch the
show seriously in the episode they come
up with tiny little robots literally a
and then they the bees start
assassinating people and I can't quite
make the connection as to why but it's
people who aren't liked very much I
think that's where there's on with it
but ok so these bees can recognize
flowers and they pollinate flowers and
they no longer need human direction to
do it so they they form their own forms
and colonies and they start pollinating
like crazy and everybody's happy about
it but then people start dying from the
bees because of fiction you're making
this up from a TV show I know I'm making
it up from a TV show but it just seems
like okay it seems scary other side of
the coin okay let's plant a garden on
Mars okay okay let's take a whole like
box load of pollinating robots drone
that are autonomous that will land
themselves in a charging Bay and then
get up and fly out and pollinate a game
so send that out in advance of humans
being sent out so that there's oxygen so
there's oxygen so that there's fruit so
that all of these things that that would
have had to have been transported on
this ship are now they are growing in
some kind of a hydroponics right so
we've got pollination have problem ation
of the bees not a place yet oh yeah no
as far no as far as I'm concerned as
soon as humanity says though we don't
need these anymore then there's a big
problem no I don't think that's where
they're going oh it's a supplemental
thing or I think it would really work
well in that kind of an environment
where they don't need to have air to get
started on pollinating and stuff like
that I guess okay all right so you
should do maybe your own happy robobee
show and my own happy robobee show
trouble-dee show will call it robobee by
Robbie okay I i do encourage you though
to watch that episode of black mirror
just you see where I'm coming soon
alright feel like we've already seen it
here today
an attacker compromised over 5000 IOT
devices on a campus network including
vending machines and light sensors and
then use them to attack that same
network ZDNet confirms in this instance
all of the DNS requests were attempting
to look up seafood restaurants though
the attack was eventually blocked by
cyber security professionals verizon
verizon's managing principal of
investigative response blames the
problem on device is configured using
default credentials and says it's only
going to get worse there's going to be
so many of these things used by people
with very limited understanding of what
they are there's going to be endless
amounts of technology out there with
people and people are easily going to be
able to get access to the article
suggests ensuring that the IOT devices
are on a completely different network to
the rest of the IT estate but it ends by
warning that until i OT manufacturers
bother to properly secure their devices
and the organizations which deploy them
learn to properly manage them ddos
attacks by IOT botnets are going to
remain a huge threat sure we've talked
about this before yeah all about
passwords and protecting it kinda it
kind of does become a little bit of
review here on the show but yeah I think
you know the thing is is that we get an
internet cable modem sent to us by our
cable provider to give us internet
access we plug it in it works we've got
access to Wi-Fi and so we're happy we
never think that okay well it has the
passwords on it that my internet service
provider pre-configured those passwords
are readily available on the Internet
yeah so as soon as somebody puts
together a script that goes out and
searches for say printers we talked
about this last week yeah 150,000
printers were compromised because they
have the default user names and
passwords people connect them to their
network because they want to be able to
print to them wirelessly and now they're
compromised yeah so no we've got to set
up strong passwords even on our internal
devices our internet of things
it's really hard to get yourself in the
mindset that this is actually something
you need to do it's a connected device
you've got to realize it's not it just
because it's in my house just because
it's sitting in my basement on a shelf
doesn't mean that it's not accessible by
the rest of the world exactly my shoes
right now I'm having a hard time
accessing my own wireless printer so
feel like nobody else is going to be
able back you think so eh when it starts
spewing out robots yield oh yeah yeah a
group of researchers have developed a
new kind of human machine interface that
detects individual neuron signals for
youth in controlling artificial limbs
the group's findings published on
februari sixth in the journal Nature
were reached using a virtual prosthetic
Roger rather than a physical device but
the authors say that their neural
electric interface could greatly improve
on existing prosthetic control methods
and gave six subjects who had lost arms
intuitive control of multiple degrees of
freedom current prosthetics mostly rely
on signals from a user's muscles
sometimes after reconnecting them to
nerves from their missing limbs but
according to the new paper that method
generates relatively in precise data and
the new study researchers still use
muscles as a sort of amplifier reading
their signals with implanted electoral
biographical sensors but they filtered
the noise of the muscle activation
giving more direct readings of neuron
signals then they mapped inner signals
that would normally control particular
motions and use them as inputs for the
virtual prosthetic this gave test
subjects much more accurate and precise
control by one metric they got an
average of ninety-seven percent signal
accuracy comparable between seventy and
eighty five percent for dissing methods
that's incredible in addition to
enhanced motion accuracy the use of
decoded neural information generally
showed more accurate measurement of the
fourth of the subjects intended
movements while there is some advance
work on my electric sensors that can
control prosthetics without being
surgically implanted this new method
could offer benefits that outweigh the
inconveniences
surgery I would agree the next step for
the team will be to demonstrate its
effectiveness with a physical prosthesis
I love this now I don't know how many
people know my mother is a soleta my
baby she was born with like only one
Anna like a half arm right if she has
her arm up to her out she was born that
way she's not a man not an amputee but
i'm thinking i mean as things develop
now I mean I don't know whether or not
this is going to work in her case
especially the fact that she is not
young oh right I love you but so there's
some time that needs to develop but can
you imagine if you're born with like not
a full limb and you could actually as a
child and as you grow like develop the
ability to use those of you garnishing I
think the only thing you'd be lacking at
that point is the sense of feel but okay
what could they program that in right
maybe it's just a matter of your brain
recognizing it right so you might be
able to program in a sense I gotta be
artificial though yeah but I think you
could do it I think it could have done
so i could have figure that out right
I'm just impressed with the fact that
they can control an armed with
ninety-seven percent accuracy and I'm
saying arm but so now in your mother's
case what I wonder is because she was
born that way are the nerve endings
there that would need to be tapped into
I would think so there's no Gunnar I
don't know how yeah yeah so there's your
must be right it's just a matter of
training the brain right if you do it at
a young enough age yeah I don't know
what the neural plasticity is later on
and I don't even know how to say that
let alone what it is right but i'm
thinking like in the future ok so now
I'm on Team B because now I'm thinking
in the future if you can do things like
that then then that robot hand write the
prosthetics it might be able to touch
something cold and actually get a
feedback into it the brain and that's
colder that's hot but without hurting
you it's an easy right now they're
talking about the ability to control the
pressure I know so to be able to be able
to you know to do that you know like we
take for granted right that you know
there's a hit
the punch and there's the soft touch and
for somebody who doesn't have or have
lost a limb or did tie shoelaces like
that takes internship yelling it you
know absolutely absolutely so cool okay
visio one of the world's biggest makers
of Smart TVs is paying 2.2 million
dollars to settle charges that it
collected viewing habits from 11 million
devices without the knowledge or consent
of the people watching them your TV is
watching you according to a complaint
filed Monday by the US Federal Trade
Commission Internet connected TVs from
Vizio contained a CR short for automated
content recognition software without
asking for permission the ACR code
captured second-by-second information
about the videos of TVs displayed the
software collected other personal
information and transmitted along with
viewing data to server is controlled by
the manufacturer physios and sold data
to unnamed third parties for purposes of
audio audience measurement analysis and
tracking the tracking started in
february2014 on both new tvs and
previously sold devices that didn't
originally ship with a CR software
installed the software periodically
appended IP addresses to the collected
data and also made it possible for more
details personal information including
age sex income marital status household
size education level home ownership and
home values to be associated this is
ridiculous the collection occurred under
a setting that was described as smart
interactivity feature a smart
interactivity feature that enables
program offers and suggestions so it
sounds kind of benign the menu never
informed users of the feature also
transmitted viewing habits or other
personal information in addition
security researchers had previously
found that the Vizio TVs failed to
properly validate the HTTPS certificates
of servers they connected to when
transmitting viewing habitat ax
that made it trivial for anyone who had
the ability to monitor and control the
internet traffic passing between the TV
and the vizio servers to impersonate the
servers and view or tamper with the
transmitted data under the terms of the
settlement vizio will pay 1.5 million
dollars to the FTC and 700,000 to the
New Jersey Division of Consumer Affairs
the settlement also requires vivio to
delete all data collected before march
first 2016 I don't know that that's
enough of a punishment to be honest i
don't i don't like that no lie and say
you're doing it they didn't lie they
just didn't tell the truth that is bad
as samesies that's why would you like
this really cool feature what do you
would you say for that much interactive
yeah like yes yeah you won't want that
you want to go by the way we're doing
all this stuff how to see the worst you
can recommend what I would like because
you know exactly what I want at least I
got called on it Joey yeah holy that is
ridiculous how can you do that does
anyone who's watching this on a vizio tv
and if so please comment below what
action you have had to take in order to
protect your personal confidential data
how does this make you feel they
wouldn't even know that there until this
exact yeah that there that I'm sorry to
break it to you your teeth wash is there
a vizio logo right there if you're
watching us on a video the video is
watching you watch us we in turn are
purchasing your personal data yeah I
know where you live your household
income ah let me get it all oh that's
the world we live in folks okay this is
something cool about the world we live
in awesome I mean cool yeah Dubai is
about to have a passenger carrying drone
regularly buzzing through its skyline of
the futuristic city state the arrival of
the Chinese made me hang 101 84 which
has already had have had it flying debut
/ / connick sale shaped skyscraper hotel
comes as the city has partner
with several cutting-edge technology
companies to introduce futuristic
transportation including a hyper lip
Hyperloop Elon Musk's loading pod that
travels at speeds of up to 1,000 220
kilometers an hour the question is
whether he hang 184 passenger drone will
really take off as a transportation
alternative in this car clog city
already home to the world's longest
driverless metro metro line the head of
dubai's roads and transportation agency
said and speaking about the drone this
is not only a model we have actually
experimented with this vehicle flying
into by skies that's cool the craft can
carry a passenger weighing up to 220
pounds and a small suitcase or
alternatively a suitcase weighing 220
pounds or some and a small and a small
person smokers for two people sitting on
each other's laps at 100 not sure that's
legal after strapping into its racecar
style feeds the craft sole passenger
selects a destination on a touch screen
in front of the feet and the drone flies
there autonomously the drone which has a
battery allowing for a half hour flight
time and a range of up to 50 kilometers
will be monitored remotely by a control
room on the ground it has a top speed of
160 kilometers an hour but authorities
say it will off it will be operated
typically at 100 kilometers an hour the
drone has been examined by the Dubai
Civil Aviation Authority who revealed it
was controlled through 4g mobile
internet it is poised to begin regular
operations in July okay so the last part
leads me to the question okay 4G mobile
internet so like your phone your phone
so okay so sometimes your cellular
network crashes like sometimes there's a
solar flare I think that's what causes
that I don't know actually the
positioning of the moon
I know I like sometimes sometimes your
network crashes and if your network
crashes what happens to your solo pod
fly in dubai guy okay well uses it why I
question becomes and what does it use
LTE for hey to communicate back with you
know with Central Command kind of thing
for the autonomous cloud infrastructure
the powers at the brain quite possibly i
would expect that it must you know
that's how it must communicate back to
Central Command right but the fact is
it's going to have a GPS is going to
have autonomous GPS units that
communicate with the GPS satellites and
at any time if you've ever flown a drone
that has GPS you're going to be
connected to four or five or more GPS
satellites at any given time so if one
goes out of range or loses connection
you're communicating with others right
same time but quite often I mean if this
is anything like and this is going to be
this has to be like this is carrying a
passenger so it's got to be the best
autonomous features of drone usage and
I've slowed my drone and I know that if
I lose satellite signal it's going to
just hover there or it's going to
reunite a siz it's going to return home
to me or it's going to just there's
there's a couple of different modes but
if I lose connection with my controller
I can either have my drums sit hovering
automatically or come back home to me oh
so it would have features like that so
if LTE lost connection it would say okay
I've lost connection either hover here
or safely land at a you know maybe they
have specific landing sites that are
allowed to land that's true it was a
great story until I heard cellular
network and i thought was sometimes my
cell phones a little dodgy I got
thinking about the fact that you know we
think about it traveling at 100
kilometers an hour when it can go faster
and you think 100 kilometers an hour
that's not very fast considering people
do you know here around here 120 on the
highway is not unheard of sometimes fast
or not not myself but you see people
zubin by me so it doesn't sound very
fast we were traveling like that but
when you're in a clogged congested
city where traffic is stopped yeah yeah
a hundred kilometers an hour is going to
be like paradise for the guy who's got
to get to work could you imagine having
these buzz around like crazy yeah wait
direct like I'm going to work so all of
a sudden this takes me up like a cab and
takes me directly to work and lands on
the roof and I get out and then they're
right no having to go through the turns
and traffic lights and everything this
is not bad this is not bad at all now
there's a whole bunch of people that are
like I need to get down to 220 ya doing
some lunges while they're waiting for
this to develop puts down the bucket of
chicken free bucket roll I'm sorry sorry
they will be coming in the extra large
model matter thanks for watching the
category 5 TV news room don't forget to
Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category 5 TV news
room I'm Sasha tomatoes
[Music]
you
