welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob
Ferguson welcome to episode number 250
of category 5 technology TV nice see I
moves to them miss a couple you missed a
couple you like to say your wheels buddy
you didn't invite me for a how you been
I've been yeah we still walk you've been
a busy sir I have been playing all kinds
music this weekend Canada Day weekend i
am at five gigs and I crap my gay I
probably turned out you can tell by the
voice this is the voice it's not whiskey
this was from this time was firm saying
yeah so everything went well and you
know what I had so much fun this weekend
again it was terrific yeah we did a
couple of things with billion the kid
and we do out and kids music out there
and yeah we played out the berry hill
farms which is you've been 0 2 Berryhill
farm you know there's Billy Louie
Donovan so we did some kid stuff out
there which was yeah absolutely a lot of
fun and then on Kandra day I played with
my one of my best buddies in the world
see bears and we did I didn't realize I
had this much in my repertoire but we
did like four hours of nothing but
Canadian music and it was just really
absolutely a for our camp concept it was
it was one more Canadian content than
allowed by law is what we were saying
then I laid down Queens Hotel de got the
streets blocked off and bury make sure
Derek discount actually I don't know if
anybody was watching the backstage thing
here I strolled in here wat it 659 and
three seconds and plug in my mic is it
hey I'm here we're having forgotten
about the the detours in town plaza they
have some roads you know closed just for
fun and frivolity prom in eight days
here in town but they've got roads
closed because they thought why don't we
start construction the week that prom
innate days that's a fantastic I so on a
parallel streaky I'm like the only
parallel street I had to go up to babe
field I'm kundal down bay fielden
anybody you don't know where that is but
believe me we're just not the shortest
route it is not ethical not as the crow
flies yeah hey it is a tuesday july the
third happy canada day day at the exam
day yesterday the extension i have a one
extra duh in there but happy canada day
too sorry depends on where you place it
and also happy fourth of July to you
tomorrow as well yeah so not only
extension we got the prequels yeah yeah
this is like a week of celebrating this
we indeed fireworks and oh gosh i gotta
tell you my dog is not happy with
fireworks you know trying to take the
poor little dear for a walk and then
everyone editor everybody's not bound to
see you you know they do then you know
the municipal folks put one on but i
mean like every clown down my street had
fireworks out in the middle of the road
there's some over in the park and and
the dog was going nuts well it waited
for a long time before I wanted to go to
the bathroom that's all I can say if my
son damn it was concerned yeah my son
liam is about one and a half years old
and he was there at the fireworks with
us down at Barry's captain fell bay oh
nice and he was there and he was wide
awake but and he didn't cry he didn't
whimper or anything he just put his face
into his stroller so that he was like
this he couldn't see Italy
and then what was hilarious is he didn't
he didn't watch any of it it was I don't
know if it was frightening or why he
didn't act like it was scary just didn't
didn't want to see it he didn't seem too
interested totally covered his face and
then right at the end not even looking
up so he's still like this I've got a
couple of suggestions in the chat room
there's you know maybe I check it Cesar
Millan's remedy for dog noise issues
yeah but then egg emoto's you know his
dog's been sleeping with earplugs last
couple of nights OGG has yeah there's
enough actually you know what this
little dog in it is just a little mutt
but I love the heck out of it but I used
to have a german shepherd / gray Helen
Krauss and if you check the list for
dogs with noise issues they are the top
two so this dog was big and would get
under the bed this much space and we'd
shake wow I didn't know we had magic
fingers turned on in this bed anyway it
was well hmm so you know what we've got
we're gonna talk about security
protection for your website including
proxy blocking and bad bot protection
and more sounds good yeah it's all good
and what have you got coming up in the
news well I don't even know yet maybe I
should check the head home yeah I got to
tell you folks I was I got here just
literally just in literally did we
mention the construction and Barry if
they're from the very area what are they
thinking you know and so the detours are
two takes you down these little back
streets over by Queens Park here's the
road that brings you here oh you can't
even see that no here we go okay let's
okay there's a road right here it's
closed off for promenade yeah okay so
July first party weekend here's the road
that runs parallel to it it's closed off
for construction yep here's a road that
comes all the way up here and way over
here you know a couple kilometers up
this way and then down this way you
literally had to yeah but I was coming
from the strawberry
yeah yeah I'm doing my gig the other day
and I had to go to the Queens Hotel
which it should be at 10-11 minute drive
sure took me 35 minutes it's not well
because and he got a good one of the
north-south roads is close to so yeah
lots of fun anybody coming up in the
news Apple had succeeded in getting
Samsung's Galaxy Nexus banned for sale
in the US whoa it doesn't sound like the
plan well in the sandbox a new brain
scanner has been developed to help
paralyzed people speak by spelling the
world's thinnest transparent screen made
of a soap bubble what okay I'm gonna
want more information and Twitter tries
albeit unsuccessfully to protect its
users privacy and rights in court stick
around these stories are coming up later
in the show thanks Eric of course join
us on our website through your mobile
device let's see here it is m dot cat
five dot TV all you got to do is just
scan that with your QR scanner or
visited in your mobile browser your hair
looks great by the way I was just
wondering cameras on any hairdressers
out there who might just want to you
know throw in a freebie haircut Oh
sometimes I think he thinks that the
camera's not on yeah Mona I was just
yeah yeah creamy for our adoring public
mcat 5dr hey check that out all right
also we love love love to receive your
postcards and we have got some contest
coming up where you can win Eric how can
they send in their postcards well you
know you could send it to snail mail to
category 5 technology TV post office box
to 9009 a berry Ontario and that's in
Canada l4n as in November 7 w as in
whiskey 7 all right always with the
whiskey references all right did you
know in Canada we spell it without the e
but in the USA spell it with an e
whereas normally when we spell something
differently from the Americans we had a
letter yeah yeah I just see what I can
hear that yeah you we had lots of you be
whisk our
if you how that works you know I just
that's been Canada for you Oh Eric my
man it's good to see you I was
mentioning your mention about postcard
were wondering if you were gonna see me
with me well i'm just getting at that
point but I think we're far enough along
in our relationship that I know that if
you're not here two minutes before the
show that you'll be here two minutes
after the show send in your postcard
because we are going to be giving away a
magic jack on july seventeenth so we're
going to be drawing names from postcards
also if you can't get a postcard to us
right away make sure you sent us one in
one anyways however you can also give us
a call to 545 cat5 TV that's 25 452 to
85 88 and leave us a voicemail saying
why you think you should get a magicjack
plus and tell us what you're going to
use it for why you'd love to have one
that's going to include a full year
phone service absolutely free long
including long distance service for
Canada and the United States so don't
that my friends is a heck of a deal yeah
you know send us a postcard all right
we're always gonna here's the thing is
we're gonna keep those postcards and if
you hadn't already won with your
postcard you're still gonna be in the
drop if you sent 12 months ago you're
already in the draw well how cool is
that how way cool I'm gonna send in a
postcard thanks buddy yeah speaking of
on-air team sending in postcards i did
receive one from Hillary and I don't
have it handy and we're gonna check that
out I'm gonna have to bring that up next
week unfortunately but that just
reminded me that yeah Hillary yes where
is Hillary cuba cuba cuba working on the
tan Wow one fair although we can work on
the tent here and bury so yes actually
you know I was under a big umbrella when
i was playing yesterday but as the Sun
went down you feel my shins starting to
warm oh boy oh boy all right I've got an
email here Eric comes to us from Hong
Jang in Shanghai China and you remember
who is he's basically becoming our our
go-to guy for mainland China or as you
know he's been there letting us know how
things are going with with category 5
working its way into mainland China
after breaking through the Great
Firewall of China well so good news Hong
Jang says hey guys today is july first
written a couple days ago all right i am
glad to report that the new RSS feed is
working pretty well in mainland china
thanks for all you've done to make it
happen it is really a it's really great
news to Chinese viewers well this coming
from a viewer who went to school in
Germany found out about the show moved
home after school and could no longer
watch the show so now from home in
mainland China Shanghai Hong Jang is
able to watch the show how was he able
to do that our new website launched on
Sunday nope afternoon right category i
was dying guitar or somewhere I know I
know category 5 TV now supports what's
called the alternate feeds so if you go
to the show RSS feeds and subscriptions
you're going to see here are the main
feeds these are the ones that we have
always had and then over here are the
alternate feeds these feeds will work as
far as I know anywhere including
mainland China they get around all of
the issues all the blockades that that
exist there and if we go up I'm logged
in right now so I have the members menu
and I can get things like coupons and
the photo gallery and here's our new
improved viewer location map and one of
the things that's very very exciting as
a couple of weeks ago with Hillary here
I brought up the viewer location map and
we could see that the eastern area of
China was we were starting to see some
viewership taking place over the course
of launching our new alternate feeds and
the ability for mainland China to be
able to watch the show it's astounding
to see that we actually have a very
large growing number of viewers right in
mainland China so to all of you and to
Hong Jang it's wonderful to have you
viewing the show
nice to have you here even though that
it's pretty cool I see a coupla somebody
in Katmandu there you go Nepal that's
pretty cool so that's wonderful and you
know this is an area of the world that
previously couldn't watch the show I'd
like to get the word out to North Korea
if there are popular Linux in the China
or do you have I don't I haven't
actually looked up those stats yeah I
know that in Germany the UK Netherlands
yeah Ireland it's it's a it's growing in
its popularity a couple of folks and
well actually we had a postcard from
Afghanistan a while back didn't we sure
did just come out viewers their chicken
zombie relocation map nobody loves
nobody it's interesting to look at the
trends of you our wonderful viewers and
and okay well I want to know what island
that was right that one right there what
is that little island that is a viewer
from funchal portugal wow just a little
tiny looking island there well I'd like
a postcard from their love of thats
where i would like a postcard and you
can see the were we're growing in
popularity here you haven't really
worked window madagascar though not yet
i'm working working on but in particular
very very pleased to have our Chinese
viewers yes watching the show and and I
know if you are watching live it's it's
very early in the morning if you're
watching on the RSS feeds it's wonderful
to have you here and please do spread
the word because this is really the
beginning of our launch into mainland
China and so it's it's an exciting time
thanks i have a question how about I see
we've got some one way up in northern
Canada on Hudson's Bay what's the
internet coverage like up there I know
well I would have been challenged
probably a satellite yeah it's quite
possible thing is though is even when
you're in remote areas where you can't
get good internet because our show
supports RSS feeds you can download the
show okay on demand or like you don't
have to stream it from our servers you
can get it you can download it overnight
and then watch
in the morning so it was really cool
yeah mural internet TV is a great
program that uses that kind of
technology it's indicates the files to
your computer or synchronizes them
whatever you want to call it aggregates
the RSS feeds and copies those files
onto your computer every time we
launched a new show so wednesday
afternoon when we bring out tuesday
night's show it will automatically
download to your computer using software
like that itunes is also supported and
cat5 TV / itunes if you want to
subscribe to that this can't get away
from us really you know it's all about a
global we are infiltrating yes world
domination is what we're working on the
way that I always saw it and and this
was my thought when I realized that we
were blocked in mainland China is that
it stinky in the brain no the way that I
always kind of saw it was that this is
the world wide web and it should be a
worldwide medium I understand that there
are certain things that you want to
block in certain countries and that
makes sense but this show you know we
are generally non-political and
certainly never try to put any politics
into the show it's really quite quite
clean as far as I yes you look very very
we're putting our coffee there's little
sex or politics or violence a little bit
about a little bit of violence a little
bit of talk about whiskey yeah this
without your distances this way of
coffee or whiskey blueberry coffee home
to get a slipper then sounds wrong it's
pretty delicious this comes to us from
Muskoka rose tree and I think yeah I
think a rose tree yeah it's a new word
for me give that a try I I thought I was
the word guy but roastery is that a lot
of real word that hang that up I smell
berries it's very nice kinda reminds me
of blueberry waffles mm-hmm
and it's good not nice nice thing to
handle Robbie nicely nicely done nicely
done okay so we do have to take a quick
break we're going to be right back with
your viewer questions in just a moment's
time and then as Eric was mentioning
we're going to be looking at how to
secure up your website add some
blockades to keep people from accessing
your site through open proxies and
things like that excellent if you're
going to be doing any e-commerce or if
you want to protect yourself from
malicious users sit around we're going
to be right back after this at eco
alkalines we believe you should be able
to trust your battery's not just here
but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance that rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference Eco alkalines calm
this is category 5 technology TV and the
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
and also a member of the International
Association of Internet broadcasters
that list is getting long it is oh hey
find us online category 5 TV new website
launched this past weekend very very
excited about that we're start and
receive your viewer questions off of our
new website as well cat5 TV / ask if
you'd like to send in your question now
complete with remote support so we can
oh please we can bring up your computer
screen on the show imagine oh my yeah be
fun this could be fun alright how about
some questions yeah I was some questions
today love to receive your questions did
I mention I did five gigs and I've been
doing a lot of singing I have almost no
voice so have you here a little cough or
gravel it's it's that's my god here's a
question from Mel sound a bit lower Rod
Stewart they're just at last night's gig
a
actually you know i was playing down on
dunlap street they've got the street
clothes off i'm on a patio and right
across the road there's a brewery in
town it's a small micro brewery called
flying monkeys yeah so I'm at the Queens
Hotel flying monkeys across the road and
I'm playing from three o'clock till ten
anomaly and I went a lot longer than
that but oh um at six o'clock the other
band was starting up and I started guys
you know we're gonna have to kind of
cooperate because it's like did you take
turn this crossroad so we have split
sets and was here huh oh it was great
actually these guys Joe here on orange
Isles and Mike bathroom you might know
him he's real estate guy around town
okay but my goodness they were good and
it was great like that's I was doing a
lot of acoustic stuff and everything and
it was so their patio was watching me
and clapping and cheering me along and
then when I'd stop my patio was cheering
them on and it was just it worked so
well with perforated really well it was
just the next night it was exciting
anyway Yammer guy was like yeah we have
a question from mel Clark hey man he's
running Zorin OS six RC great so I
installed the Zorin OS six RC a couple
of weeks ago and it works great it is is
it necessary to install the final
release which just came out or well
updates make changes for me thanks in
advance love the show keep up the great
work I don't know the official response
to that Mel but I would get the
impression that who you're with the
release candidate just let it do it's
all its updates and you'll be good to go
unless there's something that's broken
in there and you want to get a clean
install I personally like to do clean
installs but even with 12 point oh four
on my wife system I had just gone from
the release candidate right up to the
full version once it came out you're
going to get all the the updates and
patches anyways so generally technically
it's gonna be cleaner to do a full
install because they may have removed
some packages and things like that that
that may linger on your system after an
update but on the same token it's it's
going to be the same operating system
when it's all said and done once you've
got all your updates do it
to upgrade on apt-get dist-upgrade any
friend asked me a question regarding
upgrades and stuff but actually he was
having problems but this I know it's a
windows thing but his window system and
we could not get back to his desktop etc
anyway did a repair and just all and so
he got his desktop back Saul's files
really excited but not one of the
program's works no how would you go
about realigning those with the registry
or that's the problem pretty much
reinstalling everything the programs are
there but they would have corrected
regidor work entries and probably dll
version mismatches and stuff chances are
pretty good like if you had windows say
service pack 3 1 XP I'm guessing this is
an XP machine with the repair install so
if you had sp3 on there and you're
running whatever application and then
you do a repair install using fo one
right you will have out a day pack or
mix mapped passages so rerun your
updates to sp3 try to get your system
built up to that point that it was at
before with all the right service packs
and all the right patches from Microsoft
Windows Update and then hopefully it
would start working because there might
be dll's real answer is have really good
backups and do a clean install yeah of
course however that wasn't the case yeah
unfortunately yeah repair install is is
pretty good but you need to if you've
got applications that could definitely
break them so okay we've got a question
here from Robert gorsinski hey Robert
and running ubuntu linux 11.10 hi Robbie
and Hillary well it's eric this week hi
i'm eric i'm not sure we've met but yeah
Hillary's a way cuter nice even allow
didn't mean to sorry Hillary hi Robbie
and Hillary I have a problem that i was
wondering if you could help me out with
we have a new product that our company
has developed a people counting system
that connects over the internet to allow
us and the customers to view the traffic
I am able to set up the product within
our own network IE setting time server
IP address Knapp mask gateway ports etc
this is fine as it allows me to check
the system that the system is working
what I want to do which i'm not sure if
it is possible and how difficult be to
simulate someone else's network using
eye peas etc that we can get from them
in a lot of cases we will be dealing
with dynamic ip's and not static which
isn't a problem is as I have also to set
up in DNS yeah to allow us and the
customers to view the count results I
have basic networking skills can you
suggest a way to solve this or point me
to a site that I can look at all this
work is done under ubuntu linux 11.10
will be upgrading to 12.04 at some stage
love the show keep up the great work
thanks Robert no from Melbourne
Australia Robert sounds like a good I
might know pretty something a pretty
custom kind of a custom solution you've
got in place the first thing that came
to mind and and Eric may have some
feedback on this too but when I think
about setting up a an IP network that
simulates another IP network I think
about using virtualization I think
that's the easiest most cost-effective
way to do it because at no point in
setting up individual machines to mimic
other individual machines when you can
use a free program such as VirtualBox
install a copy of the operating system
and then clone clone clone and now
you've got three of them and set up each
one with its own mac address and its own
IP address and then emulate the entire
network as if it was a real network
because you can set the IP addresses
right right you could however these are
folks from outside though dinardo's
network that he's having trouble with
but he but he wants to emulate okay from
what I understand and correct me if I'm
misunderstanding Robert sounds like he's
got this piece of software that's
connecting out and doing this stuff
wants to create a virtual version of it
so that he can do some testing
internally is that am i following right
perhaps okay maybe he's just trying to
figure out how to do it on somebody
else's networking wants to yeah I like
to simulate that we're good that's
that's how I took the question then then
give them the solution perhaps perhaps
we don't understand the question
it'sit's sir could you repeat that for a
little a little rewording but if that's
the case if that's if I'm right about
thinking that that's what you want to do
then i would say using virtualbox
virtualbox org you can get it in
synaptic package manager if you if you
just want a quick easy free version on
your boon to system and then just create
virtual computer after virtual computer
if you want it to be web accessible make
sure you set it to a bridged network
interface controller rather than the
default which I think it's like NAT so
so is this like when you clone a
computer you need to do a new cid or
something like a map yeah or a uuid well
new said new ok I'm not sure well each
computer has its own idea on the network
yeah just close the mat guy change it
yeah the mac address yeah but the way
I'm thinking about this is that if you
were to create virtual computers and set
each one up with the IP address that it
would have a mobile so they work and
create like an internal virtual version
of it then you'd be able to basically be
testing a real working environment with
all the same settings tells right if I
follow you ok Robert I hope so
virtualbox tour great piece of software
for virtualization fairly easy to use
fairly easy to get set up and go in and
just treat each virtual machine as if
it's a real computer so if you're
setting it with a static IP address for
example just pretend it's a real
computer because that's really what it
is if you create it with an IP address
no it's certainly a dynamic ip's on the
other networks remotely yeah and that's
fine too like you can you can set each
it's it literally like I say is like a
real physical computer so treat it that
way when you're setting it up because
each virtual machine as far as itself is
concerned and the other computers are
concerned as long as you've done the
network incorrectly it's just another
computer on your network and
can have one computer we've got a fairly
powerful you know like an i7 computer
you could probably have five or six or
seven or eight computers running on that
one computer fairly well she's my p4 I
have trouble having one computer room
yeah well you're not doing we're not
doing 3d hear anything yet right on that
app so all right so luck robert we have
another question all right ones from art
hey art and hi gang in EP 2 30 headless
VirtualBox and ran across oh and was so
230 ok oh thank you I just thank you for
that i read into that yeah like EP what
in episode 250 headless VirtualBox i ran
across a problem with remoting into host
when i tried to set up a new vm it would
only show little preview box no full
screen image ah I went through your
tutorial a couple of times and don't
feel I miss anything I did get a message
about USB devices and head to disable in
settings that's when I go to settings in
vm i have created the video part now in
the vm is created the video part is not
able to be changed let me know if anyone
else has the same problem or if there is
something i may have missed great show
art thanks Ari sounds to me and it's
funny that it's a virtual box question
because we're just talking to go Gretel
kind of funny sounds to me like you need
to install guest additions which is a
part of virtual box you can install
those into your guest operating system
if you don't install them they're
basically the virtual network mouse
video that's the key thing for you video
drivers without installing those you
can't resize your desktop you can't
scale anything guest add-ons a gamoto is
correcting me thank you but in
virtualbox you can install those it's
included with the software you can
download it off the website i'm going to
bring up VirtualBox real quick let's see
virtualbox ever since oracle came in i
can't find it because it's no longer at
v
can't you just sort those by off of it
yeah well if you if you start up your
virtual machine then you're going to
have a button that allows you to install
your your guests add-ons easily enough
guest Anton's I guess today was the
correction the dagga mode 11 yeah better
say it point I thought it was a
difference in vegetables now it's
getting rowdy in the chat room yeah
invincible mutant saying no its guest
additions and agamotto back and forth
and a moto so guys play nicely no it was
oh I think that's what you what you need
let us know art if that's if that's
right or wrong guest additions like I
say it gives you the ability to scale
your nerd rage raging nerdlings out
there roomie oh my goodness do we have
time for another questionnaire I think
we do I hey you want to get into the
news and pay Robert one question for
show mr. oh okay oh is this another this
is funny was colored you Robert I was
about to stablish and this is mr.
Osinski one more time now he's a pretty
sure it was ubuntu 11.10 less oh he's
changed now it's 12.04 okay Robbie and
Eric I haven't been asked to build a
computer system for a friend and have
convinced them to use linux as the
operating system excellent this is going
to say then we round five hundred
dollars or so in not having to buy
windows office antivirus software etc
let's get out the calculator and figure
a factor in the lifetime of the
computers seventy dollars a year for
this and that and blah blah blah it's
more than 500 bucks and you can tell
them that Wow think of all the cost
savings so think of all the good Bill
Gates is done for the world I mean is it
okay i'm waiting for the for the cutoff
signal in the glacier you know like just
experiencing technical difficulties i'm
sure they're not gonna get
that arrogant well we might get into it
you know don't bring in Steve okay they
wanna have a where was I they are
wanting to have a printer with this new
system ayah which brand of printer would
be the easiest to get working under
linux all are equally difficult to get
working well I have only ever used canon
brand printers under Linux which can be
a handful to get working thanks Robert
from a Melbourne Australia okay so he's
changed operating system all right so
this is for the the computer for the
friend so it's obviously going to be the
latest and greatest I had a friend once
then they caught me hanging out here
with you guys ah dear okay Robert I
would say these days technically the
most stuff is pretty easy to install
them when I see even more so than it is
on Windows Windows 7 and so on has been
getting better and better talk nailed
the trolls yep yep all right I things
have gotten so easy with linux and
installing printer drivers and things
like that getting your printer up and
running here's the thing i'm going to
bring up a website called let's see open
printing dot org slash data base where's
that database lose this has been the
first time a drug database open printing
dot org slash data you'll see the base
okay
so my friend here's here's the thing is
that ok call me that unless you mean I
have I wasn't talking to you obviously
drink your coffee it's good yes yes dear
the the fact like I said it's really
really easy these days but the open
printing database helps us to see what
printers because this is your specific
question which printers are going to be
easy to install on Linux so that's where
this comes in because it's a repository
of which printers are the easiest and
you'll see that it's rated by how well
they work sorry penguins if it's three
penguins it's perfectly which means
perfect printers work perfectly goes
without saying thank you for that
everything that the printer can do is
working also under linux and unix for
multifunction devices this must include
scanning faxing etc because everybody
needs to have a fax machine in these
days it's very very important i always
wonder why they still feel those great
facts from this guy oh the fact is now
i've used lots and lots of printers
brother is indeed an exceptional product
they make good products but i've got a
brother printer i use brother printers
and they all work on linux and they
actually have the linux logo on the box
i love that well so that i really really
like so let's go through the database to
penguins no we're only dealing with
sweet pink hey let's go to yeah we'll
just deal with three so now click on
printers remember we're at open printing
org slash database you'll remember
because of Eric's quips about my
pronunciation click on printers and
here's what we want to do I think you
nailed printers I think you said yes
okay fine so what do you want to do you
want to look at canon printers i would
start you know do that show all here are
the ones that work perfectly and then it
gets into the ones that work mostly we
don't want to bother with any of those
so let's look at brother i'm going to go
back let's go brother here are the ones
that work perfectly oh brother wow
that's a pretty long list look at
brother go
who now we've got some that are mostly
now where does mine fall I'm gonna go
6490 maybe it's not shown on the list I
don't know I uses 6490 CDW and it's not
on the list but it works perfectly so
they're not all there so keep that in
mind but I think brother is the way to
go but using this database you can at
least say which printer is available for
a price that I like that was a nice
resource great resource and the other
thing that I keep in mind is what are
the cartridges like in that printer are
they a color cartridge and a black
cartridge which is more expensive or are
they three color cartridges like see my
and then black okay reason that is
usually cheaper to get the three
cartridges plus the black is because if
you print something that has a lot of
blue skies in it all of a sudden you're
out of blue ink well now you gotta toss
your whole cartridge right that's a
color cartridge and replace it even
though you've only run out of blue ink
so here with those kind of printers you
know keep in mind that you you then
we'll be able to replace just the blue
chanting the sign yeah actually ink is
one of the things I discovered with cool
printers I'm you can find a printer that
does fabulous printing yeah you know
yeah like under a hundred dollars and
it's an all in one cartridge and you're
right they nail you on the consumables
yeah you know gather the printers like
ninety dollars in the cartridges or
forty dollars and they hold like half an
ounce of the half a dozen this is the
other thing that I really like a brother
because I think people know you know
that we here at category five have
pretty strong ecological vuser we you
know we believe in being green as green
as as can be possible and when you're
talking about consumables a lot of
that's it you take it throw it away and
even to the to the point like lexmark
it's like okay well here's a twenty
dollar printer well what are you going
to do with that you're not going to put
seventy dollars worth of cartridges and
I know you're going to chuck it and
you're going to buy another one so it's
this disposable mentality so I stay away
from that brother actually has a very
specific environmental program where
they recycle cartridges they you know
they create system
that are meant to be you know
long-lasting and high-yield cartridges
and things like that so that matters to
me and you can recycle cartridges as
well which is important or get them
refilled sometimes sometimes yeah we're
going to be looking at some different
cartridge options and ways that you can
that you can help save the earth with
cartridges because those things are like
deadly they they take so long to
biodegrade like thousands of years it
said so when you think about that like a
toner cartridge taking you you know that
I guess it's all theoretical because
they haven't existed that long but they
would do tests and things and realize
that wow this is actually going to take
a long time yet and you know even even
some things that are biodegradable like
you know you get some yeah things that
are biodegradable that's way different
from being compostable yeah so it may
break down but say it's plastic bag it
may break down in 14 years but it's
still little tiny pieces of plastic is
for sure what it's a compostable which
actually is you know actually going back
to being something may I know we're
attic yes we now and then it happened
open printing Don Rodrigo alkaline
batteries i'm using those all kinds yeah
just you know which is a it's a good
feeling hey yeah yeah so and i was
thinking about it the other day how like
I do have some rechargeable batteries
that I'm pulling out of some old style
that that I had been using rechargeables
in now that they're dead i'm replacing
them with eco alkalines and I'm
realizing that yeah you people do Chuck
these in the garbage David I mean I
don't know when I was working the TV
station we had a big bin weed and then
we'd you know send them recycle let's go
but most people you've got one battery
they just think that was something air
but yeah very very bad for the
environment not a good thing no so eco
alkalines they're much better because if
they do end up in a landfill they will
go away without the chemical residue
very very important Eric I know you're
dying to get into the new I am dying to
get into the news I
okay so here are the top stories from
category 5 TV news room a judge in
California has blocked us sales of
samsung's galaxy nexus smartphones
besides patent dispute with Apple US
District Judge Lucy Coe said Apple has
shown a likelihood of establishing both
infringement and the validity earlier
this week she borrowed sales of
Samsung's Galaxy Tab 10.1 I have one of
those in the u.s. until the case was
resolved Wow okay a new brain scanner
has been developed to help Oh a new one
a new brain scanner has been developed
to help people who are completely
paralyzed speak by enabling them to
spell words using their thoughts it uses
functional magnetic resonance imaging
fMRI to help patients choose between 27
characters the alphabet and a blank
space I was one more than twenty seventh
character was yeah each character
produces a different pattern of blood
flow in the brain and the device
interprets these patterns how dare you
call Eric it at this time I told you
never to call me here that's pretty wild
that's like the closest thing to reading
one's mind as far as yeah that goes far
that can go it's kind of kind of freaky
can eat viewers may soon be able to
watch movies on soap bubbles after
research has developed a technology to
project images on a screen made of soap
film an international team produced a
display that uses ultrasonic sound waves
to alter films properties and create
either a flat or 3d image the bubble
mixture is more complex than the one
sold in stores for children but soap is
still the main ingredient the team says
the display is the world's thinnest
transparent screen uh now he is pretty
pretty cool I wonder if it's like really
expensive bubbles you know like you got
to pay like two hundred dollars for the
solution and then when the kids get
ahold of it let's use a bubble
my goodness hmm a US Court has partnered
Twitter I was almost going to digress
into another story careful with that a
US Court has ordered Twitter to release
old messages and details about a user
arrested during an Occupy Wall Street
protest in New York the micro-blogging
firm contested the subpoena saying the
tweets were owned by users rather than
the company earlier the American Civil
Liberties Union common commended Twitter
for defending free speech rights however
the judge wrote in his decision if you
post a tweet just like if you scream it
out the window there is no reasonable
expectation of privacy but Twitter
challenged the subpoena arguing that the
judge had misunderstood how the service
worked nevertheless the judge said he
would personally review the information
and would only release the relevant
sections to prosecution and defense
lawyers hmm Twitter expressed his
appointment saying we continue have us
continue to have a steadfast commitment
to our users and their rights you can
get the full stories the category 5 TV
news room the category 5 TV news room is
researched by roy wns with contributions
by our community of viewers if you have
a news story you think is worthy of
on-air mention email newsroom app
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm Eric kitten thanks Eric
tonight's show is brought to you in part
by quarter eee electric they are the
official electrical company of category
5 technology TV find out more about them
by emailing them or visiting their
website quarter eee electric com just as
it appears on your screen there and also
garden gate farms com for certified
organic broccoli sprout and wheatgrass
juice visit them online at triple w
garden gate farms com this is category 5
technology TV nice to have you here
you'll find us online triple w category
5 TV and yeah we got some exciting stuff
to cover tonight Eric thanks for running
through the news there yeah running
through with what little voice I have
left speaking of news I know Colorado
Springs has been hit with some major
fires OH since the last show
I didn't oh yeah I was very severe and I
just want to say to those of you who are
viewing from Colorado Springs or even if
it's after-the-fact I'm just very
thankful that you're okay I know that it
was quite a crisis situation and there's
gonna be some some major challenging
times ahead for a lot of you so we just
want to let you know that we're thinking
of you striker joining us in the chat
room tonight from Colorado Springs nice
to see you and nice that the you and
your family are safe yes indeed alright
tonight we are looking at how to add
security to our website and by security
I'm not talking about a firewall or some
kind of software firewall that's going
to prevent people from accessing ports
what I'm talking about is a
database-driven service that's basically
almost cloud-based getting data from
outside of your own server and blocking
things like open proxies so if
somebody's trying to get into your
website using some kind of masking
technique so that you can't tell who
they are if they're trying to let's say
their IP address is known to be a bad
spammer they spam a lot then you might
as well stop those people from being
able to access your website or at least
redirect them or something like that
maybe you've got a service that you're
selling that's only available in the UK
and so you don't want people making
purchases from Canada so you can
actually block Canada from being able to
make purchases on that website for
example just throwing out a couple of
examples for you but essentially if
somebody's going to be accessing a
website through an open proxy generally
speaking the other than things like
being you know having a website blocked
like was the case I know a lot of people
in China had to previously use an open
proxy for example to access category 5
TV because some of our services were
blocked now that's not the case however
if you're running an e-commerce site and
somebody's using an open proxy to access
your website chances are pretty good
they're doing something malicious
there's usually not a reason to to do
that other example would be if your
hosting video in such a way that it that
copyright law says that you're only
allowed to display it in the United
States of America so you may need to do
more than just blocking people by geo
location you may have to block people
using this type of technology
so tonight we're going to look at a
program called block script you can find
it at block script dot-com heading on
over to their website just to give it a
quick look there it is it's just a
simple looking website but as far as
what the technology is of this service
it's fantastic you're going to block
proxies block anonymity networks hard to
say hard to block I thought you said it
very well Robbie thank you here's
another good one you're going to be able
to block bad BOTS and scrapers these are
the guys that go through google that go
through the search ender stands you work
so hard to get your good standings in
the search engines and then these bots
go through the search engines crawl the
results and then hit all these websites
with DDoS attacks with massive spam they
look for contact forms and they submit
post after post after post and that's
where you're getting a lot of the the
fake email that looks like garbled
messages and things like that so we're
going to be able to block those bad BOTS
and scrapers we're going to be able to
block entire countries as I was saying
blocked by user language we can oh it's
got a super easy install process we're
going to look at all that so it looks
like that's kind of the summary as far
as that goes so let's grab a copy of
block script I'm just going to download
it there we go done and done this is not
a free application but I do have a
coupon for you for twenty five dollars
off of the cost to protect your domain
so stick around we're going to be giving
to that to you right at the end of the
segment so now that I've downloaded that
here's the script that's what it looks
like I'm going to download I'm going to
extract that extract that to my computer
so that i can upload it to my server
Lock script there we go okay nice and
simple three files you'll notice if you
do look at this source this is an
encrypted proprietary code this is not
open source software and so what that
means is that you are going to require
on your hosting package the ioncube
loader that's not a problem for most
certainly you know we use dreamhost here
category 5 we're able to install that
just with a custom php.ini file no
problem at all so for you just keep in
mind if you do have trouble that that
may be something that you are going to
need so let's bring up a website here
I'm going to go to this quick one that I
created please protect me I am a
helpless PHP script and we're going to
bring it up in a proxy so a proxy being
you know the anonymity kind of system
that uses a third-party server to
connect into websites and block my
private information so let's go to free
proxy server do Alex and I did yeah
thank you free proxy server dot CA is
one that I'll use tonight paste in my
domain there we go please protect me
there it is okay so now what I'm going
to do is I'm going to take this script
and we're going to actually upload this
script to my web host so it's a piano
it's a PHP script nice and easy to do so
I'm going to connect in by FTP or SFTP
in my case here we go and there's my
index file that's hosting up that little
bit of text so from there let's grab
block script
uncompressed and upload it to my server
there we go now in your browser go to
your domain / block script if everything
went well and you've got the stuff
installed which I do there we go so I've
got access to it now had I not had
ioncube loader installed it would have
warned me that there is no ioncube
loader and although it can't execute the
program it's quite ingeniously given me
a plaintext password that the entire
world now knows so that's a no then you
go ahead and use an open proxy to hack
me out now that's fine so keep that in
mind if the hackers that are going to be
hacking your website are looking over
your shoulder change your password okay
set password and continue let's go enter
my email address i don't do you remember
what it was do i need it oh goodness me
probably do too let's hope not sorry i
was gonna open it as password set that
we fell I was gonna ask you that before
you hit let's just pop it into a text
editor just in case everything's empty
yet a simply good idea to me thanks
buddy I mean all the hackers out there
no yeah you should know too yeah that'd
be good idea just I can't rewind the
video as easy as you all right so I've
entered my email address I have of
course read the agreement do read the
end of the formula and agree to be bound
but all of its terms thank you I can't
believe you just said that so eloquently
oh did you oh you read it amazing okay
so now it's actually activating the
software through their servers and
throwing it up on my system with a seven
day trial you'll see my free trial is
now active and I've got six hours or one
minute in blue or six days 23 hours and
59 minutes all right so what you can do
is after you purchase it you can enter
your license key and it will be done and
done you can add it to your cart and
this is important use the coupon code
category five
and that's going to actually give you
twenty five dollars off of the cost and
take it down to only 174 that's just to
show you the quick coupon code so now
let's go to integration and it's going
to give me the PHP code to include this
in my website so let's paste that into
the source code of my index PHP and I
want this to happen at the very very
beginning of everything that goes on in
my PHP file I'm going to save that
upload it to my server and then refresh
so we'll go there we go you'll see that
the script doesn't look any different
doesn't load any slower I've done
benchmarks and it works really really
well and I'm still able to access it
from free proxy server CA so what we're
going to do is we're going to go through
our options so what do we want to do do
we want to block hosting that blocks
read the descriptions find out what you
would like to do I'm going to say yes to
that I'm going to say yes to tech
support net blocks blocked or if you
want to or not again read the
descriptions you'll know all about these
things and what they mean they're very
quite verbose here allow translation
service like you want Google to be able
to translate your website because that
acts as if it's a proxy you want to
check headers do you want to validate
search engine BOTS so that they have to
be legitimate reverse dns lookups that's
going to slow you down so try with or
without let's make sure that I've
blocked open proxies yes okay lock open
proxies now i'm going to save these
settings
there we go now let's see if all goes
well and there's no cash then what
actually happens now some of these proxy
services do in fact cash web sites after
they've been visited so I'm going to
just try it and it is it is seemingly
cached let's try a different one you
like that one
okay so I loaded one that I've never
loaded the site with before I entered oh
come on you can say it yeah so I've
entered the website and I've hit my arse
okay there we go and you notice it's not
showing me the website it's blocked it
can't let me in this is the this is
basically the error page that they're
providing me with because they can't
access the site through the open proxy
because that quickly I've secured up my
website and blocked open proxies from
being able to access my website so
imagine you know I've got a website that
really legitimately is selling product
and I don't want people to be able to
use open proxies to be able to access it
it can be it can be very problematic if
somebody is accessing it and spoofing
their IP address getting around your
security this will protect you block
script of course as you saw there with
your coupon code category 5 is going to
be 174 dollars for your first domain so
that's in you know let's say for us it
would be category 5 TV then if I wanted
to also put it on Eric's website or
another website that I own maybe Robbie
Ferguson net or whatever else may be my
blog at bald nerd com if I wanted to
protect those now the prices drop down
because I've got my site license now
it's only twenty dollars per domain act
oh okay so it's not like a hundred
seventy four bucks each time it's 174
dollars gets you into the software and
then twenty dollars per additional
domain so and you'll see again and I'm
just kind of running through all these
settings but the configuration options
are vast wet and they're well laid out
so that you know if you want to just
block open proxies find no problem do
you want to allow tour through for some
reason right there are so many different
things that you can do this is where
things get a little more complicated or
complex I should say not complicated it
is still as simple as saying yes or no
reverse dns looks out lookups basically
means that
it's going to reverse the connection on
the IP address that's connecting to your
server and verify that it's legitimate
so it's very very it's like hardcore
protection for your server could slow
that could slow down your site ever so
slightly probably minimal but you can do
benchmarks to find out what store why
would you want to block it tour is like
is an open proxy Network and there are
versions of Linux for example to come
that come with tor ok it's it allows you
to surf completely anonymously it can be
used for for good like just protecting
your your privacy some people will want
to do that too to protect you know who
they're they're online surfing but a lot
of hackers use it as well ok right
because it protects them from being
visible on the web so you may want a
blocked or from your website depending
on the nature of it now we're pretty
lacks as far as that kind of thing goes
here because we want everybody to have
access to it but there are certain
situations where you want to protect
yourself check out blog script calm
excellent piece of software and you can
see how incredibly simple that was to
install those this just a linen note so
it's a PHP script right so you host it
on your web server and and then you add
it to the headers of your file just like
I did oh I've closed it now but my index
dot PHP I put it at the very top of that
most websites are going to have one file
that you can add it to it might be
includes / header p you've got that on
your index file but somebody's got a
link to something you know that's a
little deeper in here yeah that's what
I'm evading to with like an included
header file for all or some you know
your website probably has something that
happens before it outputs the HTML and
of the PHP code so but it is simple to
set up you can also set it up with HT
access so that solves that you don't
have to use a PHP include what if you've
got an HTML website or an ASP website
and you wouldn't be able to do a PHP
include but you can use if it's Apache
you can use HT access there are other
ways to protect it as well too again
integration on the block script menu
shows you here are the HT access codes
to add and then there are actually
plug-ins for third-party things like
vbulletin V hmcs WordPress my BB and
Drupal there's API as well if you're a
coder and you want to create your own
connector it is the end-all be-all
protector for open proxies and keep
yourself safe so again this kind of it
uses whitelist blacklist and the ability
to connect into the block script server
they maintain an up-to-date kind of log
of web traffic so if let's just say for
example I've got block script on my
e-commerce site somebody tries to hack
into my site block script says oh this
is a hacker and it blocks them now all
of a sudden Joe Blow who's got it
running on his store website halfway
across the world is using block script
it's connecting to the same database and
before they even get to the chance to
try to hack that site it already says no
denied well because you tried to hack
over there so it's it's kind of that's
why kind of compare it to the cloud
based architecture it is going out on
the web getting that information finding
out about that connection and then
deciding whether it's loud or not Thanks
and that's to put it in the nutshell
very very quick tutorial on block script
again save 25 bucks use the coupon code
category 5 at block script com this is
category 5 technology TV you'll find us
online triple w category 5 TV and we are
out of time that one by quite quickly
goes by clean up goes by way quicker
when you get here about three seconds oh
great to see everybody in the chat room
tick tock agamotto stryger rescue shouts
folks Emil 1976 Robert F Ron Smith tons
of people in the chat room tonight nice
to see you Andrew chats Linux nice to
have you joining us from here in Ontario
Canada eight miles from TJ hey gwg
well like I say that's all the time we
have folks but you have a great week
next week just as well I motor coffee no
out of coffee what we're gonna do about
that all right don't forget get your
postcards in two weeks time july
seventeenth we're gonna be giving away
another magic jack cards and letters
coming in keeping come all right folks
thank you care great to see him a good
to be back clears i may even show up
again next week if you're nice hey see
you heard it folks all right take it
easy
