welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 4 22 for Tuesday the
twentieth of October 2015 great to see
ya tonight we are doing a special for
you because tomorrow is the big day
tomorrow's the big day back to the
future day today Marty McFly is landing
in 2015 just about six hours time so
that's right for fourth place print
yourself like that one okay there's like
4 23 when I learn that today but yeah
we're going to be watching it and we're
going to be talking to you about some of
the technology they got right some of
the technologies that they got wrong
that's right here 2015 depicted in the
film was not meant to be an accurate
depiction of the future but rather try
to make it scientifically sound
predictions that was probably going to
be going wrong anyway so the greatest
for your day let's just make it funny
however the film did accurately predict
a number of technological and
sociological changes that will discuss
and we'll discuss them tonight category
5 rehydration level forward please
he's already smells good this is
category 5 technology TV starring Sasha
dramatis
Hillary rumble
and your host Ravi Ferguson
welcome to category 5 technology TV so
nice to have you here it's episode
number for 22 for the twentieth of
October 2015 I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm
Jeff Weston category 5 is a member of
the tech podcast network if it's tech
it's here cat5 TV / tpn and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat5 TV / I a I be are you
been my man not bad good through the
magic of television we have been whisked
back to studio d yes we have great it
was very great hydrator machine
incredible stuff not bad I've got to
pick one of those up we're going to talk
about all the technology aspects that we
found having watched Back to the Future
Part 2 that's right on Friday why are we
doing this well because tomorrow well
it's what 429 in the morning yep it's
right just several hours from now just a
couple of short hours from now Marty
McFly is meant to to travel to our time
yes 21st 2015 2015 so we're gonna be
looking at some of the technologies that
were hits and some that were mrs. and
see what they were right about mm-hmm I
was actually surprised as to how many
elements they put into the movie that
actually are quite plausible if not in
production right now kind of blew me
away let's get into it perfect sounds
good as you say that it's it's true
because as you said at the top of the
show interesting that the creators of
the show made it more of a comedy mm-hmm
kind of future and it really kind of
came across that way I thought as a kid
but watching it now as an adult and
realizing that everybody but Marty is a
cartoon character that's what did you
make on the physical type yes they talk
like this and they move like this and
the whole movie is like that right it
except marty is the one kind of normal
person yes so to speak so that was kind
of it was the greatest thing but then so
they're their comedic version of the
future had all these kinds of crazy
technologies yes we'll kind of go
through them chronologically I guess
because our Notre chronolog settles with
the movie shall we sure absolutely and
get into the chat
room let us know what your favorite tech
from Back to the Future 2 was and we'll
talk about it as well okay cars powered
by garbage that number one I need fuel
quick get in the car is it for real here
we are 2015 so apparently the doc goes
to 2015 and his car one thing flies
we're going to talk about that yes but
it also is powered by just pouring
garbage into some kind of reservoir
which isn't far off from what we've got
I mean there's so many things that could
be recycled and broken down and turned
into some sort of a fuel source maybe
use for cars not so much but what do you
think Sasha I think that they have a way
of using corn as fuel which is almost
the same grain like it is like garbage
well that's not what I don't mean corn
and carbon I like corn but it's it won't
feed it to my dog but yeah I'll feed it
to the car it's right I can see the
direction they were going and we're kind
of hit it okay kinda how about hydrogen
which can actually be created from
burning garbage that's true right and
we've got hydrogen fuel cell cars mhm
toyota for example has their toyota
future that's called the mirai which is
a Japanese word for future and that car
is scheduled to be released this year
now of course in back to the future too
they showed a world where in 2015
tomorrow so we've got a lot of catching
up to do yes cars are flying everywhere
so we've got the Skyway instead of the
highway and that's that's what they
envisioned so we're not there but cars
powered by garbage we've got this Mirai
from Toyota Akio Toyoda the CEO of
toyota motor corporation said hydrogen
can be made from virtually anything even
garbage and he adds that Mariah's
onboard hydrogen system actually creates
enough electricity to power a house for
about a week Wow and this car is slated
to come out this year can I make a point
yeah in the movie they didn't need roads
they had flying car yeah
but everybody lived on the streets
that's interesting yeah so they wouldn't
rebuild all the houses in the air but
yeah that's a little bit there they're
probably we could look at some of the
the flaws in their wreaths and their
logic for the future as well back to the
future 2 is not perfect well well at
least would be a lot of like street
hockey there'd be a lot of you know
available space I guess yeah true true
yeah nice and safe yeah they fly like
mad people we need to we need to be able
to you know what I'm gonna bring Sasha
in kind of like this there you go a
little that's a little closer we'll see
if we can maybe bring you right into the
set to that'll be cool odd powers of
green screen that's live TV okay what's
next well we mentioned flying cars yes I
wanted to kind of separate the two
garbage from flying because those are
two very different time incredible and
different yes technology flying cars not
quite there yet or are we did you see
the movie did you see how they depicted
the the 2015 of their future yeah yeah
we're probably a year off baby i really
hope i really truly hope that they never
actually develop flying cars why is that
because have you seen the way people
drive on the land oh now if you get into
a fender bender yeah on the ground yeah
you know you're gonna live if you get
into a fender bender in the air right
your car is gonna plummet to your ok so
what about though what about autonomous
vehicles and thinking about okay if cars
are flying themselves is it suddenly a
lot safer because they've got the
intelligence to so if they were
intelligent enough to like layer on top
of each other then there would never be
a traffic jam that would make sense I
mean you figure adapting in gps systems
if you have it so that all the vehicles
have the same GPS they I mean writing
your destination they can calculate it
out and say okay we've got fifteen
thousand calls cars all reaching for the
downtown core of this city at this time
spaces the Mau you got a two-foot gap
between vehicles
it's possible by tomorrow a couple hours
left folks it's got to happen now when
Henry Bailey Brown was here from air
support aerial photography he talked to
us about the the GPS system not only
calculating on these quad copters so
these are actual real quadcopters that
are flying today they don't own it
doesn't only calculate the left right
forward back with positioning but also
the up and down so it's a full
three-dimensional GPS system that is
able to calculate not only the position
but the vertical position as well so
could that kind of technology then be
evolved into vehicles so that yeah like
Jeff is saying they're not going to
collide because the GPS knows exactly
where they are if there's going to be a
collision the GPS could say oh let's go
up rose right well case we already have
come conflict avoidance in some vehicles
where if you're going to hit a vehicle
it already hits a sensor so I mean we've
got cars now that say hey watch out
you're gonna hit that guy you know right
drives a Tesla update as well right
talking to a few right we're talking
about so the main thing in this is we
just have to take humans out of the mix
the cars in South say the technology
we've probably actually already hit it
really with the drones like we've kind
of hit it right we just took the humans
out of the flying cars she's starting to
sound like we're going to the matrix now
take the humans out of the picture
entirely just snappy and get the thing
in your backyard think about okay so if
we were to suddenly be propelled into a
flying vehicle world right now I don't
think we're ready for it because of the
human equation yeah right but and by
that I mean I've flown a quadcopter and
I fly fairly well now but I had to learn
and in the first steps of learning how
to fly a quadcopter I don't have a GPS
in my brain so I in order to get the
fact that I'm now flying in three
dimensions and it's completely different
so when you see the doc doc brown flying
the DeLorean the one thing that he
doesn't have
from what I could tell anyways from his
dash he's still steering it like a car
that's correct but where is the where's
the AL Iran and where's the you know the
ability to to use the baby's got foot
pedals yes yeah it's pedal contributing
it's all pedal control but I think
that's the biggest learning curve when
it comes to flight is that kind of stuff
you're no longer forward back left right
you're now this and this right there's
all these pivot motions that are going
to affect the way that you you know when
you turn to be able to turn like that is
a lot different than turning your car
right cuz you're banking your back on
your hands I drone but you know what i
would say it's like a point five we hit
that point five because we do have
personal flying not vehicles but in
drones you you have the tools that give
eyes in the sky or you can race around i
tell i can strap an aunt to my teeny
grown my thought is that as we're now at
a generation that is growing up with
quad copters and with these teeny drones
and other kind of quadcopter devices and
multirotors and we're learning now so
we're programming our minds to be able
to to fly absolutely then when these
flying vehicles are introduced these
kids that are growing up now and at
seven years old or flying teeny drones
or whatever it is that they're flying
they already have that mindset that they
can do it you're starting to make me
feel old they're going to be this well
the taxi drivers of the future because i
hope you have one of those they've got
the experience when we grew up we had
remote control cars so when we got into
a car we already have the basic
principles of how to steer and how to
stay on the road before that it was the
matchbox cars and the hot wheels and and
that gave kids that sense that okay i
know i know that i need to steer like
this but before that they didn't have
any of that stuff so but you're
absolutely correct about the brains
adapting i mean i remember when the
nintendo first came out and you want
Mariota jump like you hit the a on and
your hands are ya right this or you know
you want to go faster huh you know and
so that's the way our brain was trained
but i mean i watch my kids now on there
and there
finders you know it's no issue play now
you actually do like that that's your
hands that's baby toy yes what Robbie is
I guess saying is if you're a
responsible parent you'll buy your
children teenagers how do you like that
promotion goto TV / y so no but we've
now okay so now these kids are growing
up they've learned how to fly now they
get into a flying car they already know
how to do all this stuff can you believe
it's not quite back to the future ready
but there is a company that is
manufacturing flying cars yes they are
and they work now they're more like
hybrid car / airplane kind of vehicles
yeah I saw a picture actually it kind of
looks more like a plane that drives than
a car the flies right that's what they
call today's vehicle this company is
named terrafugia and they have their pre
selling those versions right now now
their car of tomorrow all I'm excited
about that one this is the one that
they're working toward does look a lot
more Back to the Future ask even so much
as kind of a DeLorean style your system
which turns into the wings yeah and
what's interesting about that one is
because they've got the dual rotors on
the top it almost has a helicopter feel
to it so that that may be more joystick
driven mmm which would address the
steering wheel problem that everybody
right so interesting stuff so we're not
there not there lying cars ain't
happenin folks that's right but it's in
the works and the technology exists and
we're learning how to fly yes as a
populist one of the other interesting
texts with back to the future and when
you think about all this technology you
hear these reports about Oh people are
you know the show tech-driven they can't
fall asleep at night well back to the
future has solved that now the their
little sleeping device instant knockout
that's what was it called the sleep
inducing algorithm I heard algorithm to
and then I was doing some research
because it sounded like Doc Brown said
the of the sleep inducing algorithm
generator yeah it is the sleep inducing
alpha rhythm generator and we've all
heard the term alpha rhythm yeah there
are apps for your phones that apparently
generate alpha rhythms that you put your
phone under your pillow or whatever and
and that sound helps you absolutely not
quite instantly like yeah don't put your
phone under your pillow I was gonna yes
let's talk about the dangers of wireless
technology okay yeah I won't even get
into that so the sleep-inducing alpha
rhythm generator patents have already
been granted for something that is
similar to really it not quite close to
the like what Doc Brown had yeah he
could just hold it up to someone's face
and boom they're out right unfortunately
that still requires pharmaceuticals or
yes don't we have that when we call it a
Taser what's this rename it oh my
goodness yeah put you to sleep for a
moment uh we could do an episode on that
I I'm not be in that moment yeah that's
not something I'm too keen on so with
this there are other ways that have been
developed to help people to fall asleep
and rate reasonably quickly fortunately
that technology is not available yes I
don't know that it ever would be I think
it would be too dangerous I would think
so and I don't think it really work
through visual acuity I mean when you
figure the fact that he just me in front
of the eyes like the eyes don't put you
to sleep at your brain so you know I
suppose there must be cases what do you
think Sasha that because they're I've
heard people with certain sensitivities
to flashing lights and things where
they'll go into seizures or something
like that with certain certain right I
think you guys are the most direct
pathway to your brain like your eyes in
your brain are linked completely right
so I think that they have it to have the
concept right because I think that
that's the best way maybe if you put
your phones on and got zapped or
something okay right like it would have
to be but again the human element we
just have this tool I wasn't about like
would have to be like only professionals
that can adapt you to sleep so that
would be one of those things that if it
did exist if it became something
available it would have to be regulated
oh for sure because you think about I
mean I hate to say it but the bars right
you you hear terrible stories about date
rape we were date rape drugs and things
like that this would be so dangerous it
would be yes so Damian ok so the for the
first time ever I'm the silver lining
not the dark cloud but sorry I put that
on y'know you like to be the conspiracy
but but I'm we're thinking like you're
flying to Tokyo and you get on the plane
man they offer you either a light
refreshment or to be zapped to sleep
right for fifteen hours ok so would you
like to nap with this electronic device
zapping your eyes or a couple of shots
of whiskey which would you choose yeah
well I probably take the whiskey I can
see that ok what else did we get there
was the the weather system
right on the tick amazing absolutely to
better the post office isn't as
efficient as the weather service
interesting yeah yeah like it's raining
and also Nemitz like hold on oh the
weather system I do i do curse Bill
Gates on Twitter whenever it snows but
unfortunately it's not actually him that
controls the weather no that's sure
really any technologies out there yes
yes there are well they did work the
hurricane thing no they have they have
technology they can fly into clouds and
release I don't remember what it is it's
like some sodium something and it can
actually cause rain or snow that sound
who came up with that that they were
sitting at a board meeting and I said
you know what just throw some salt on it
yeah again at a bar probably uh no boat
and our meteorologists can predict
whether far more accurately it seems
year by year they're just honing in a
little bit better like they they'll say
you know but at two it's gonna rain and
at 2 15 or 2 30 it starts there almost
there yeah I guess it's still quite
inaccurate though but I have heard with
and I don't know all the details to give
you links or anything like that but I
did hear some news about about some
developments to try to contain or
control hurricanes and I don't know the
technology that's behind that but
definitely not up to the snuff of back
to dr. to where Doc Brown looked at his
watch said just wait because it's
pouring rain in California which is
obviously not real in 2050 and he looks
at his watch he says ACK wait wait for
it wait for it counting down 10 seconds
and then rain stops yeah oh and he says
the weather service is accurate unlike
the postal service which is true in 2015
I got I got my bell fairly regularly do
you yeah all of it yes i have sent
things and just recently sent a check
that did not arrive oh and so i just
found out about that and that's that's
our postal service but interestingly
enough when you talk about sending
checks that also is you've got digital
transfers and that was another thing
that would
found I'm praying the thumbprint
payments in back to the future too now
we're not necessarily at thumb prints
but when you consider the fact that this
movie was made in 1987 well I mean
that's when it came out is there started
years before that they didn't have
things like debit cards they didn't have
the taps estai was all cash I would
assume that's correct so I was just a
wee lad yeah it's my so is life changed
yeah you're right without debit
something something like debit to
someone in 1987 would look like you're
just your thumbprint yeah you're swiping
something and you're paying without ever
having to exchange cash yeah we have our
phone we have known as payment and I
guess there's the Irish you can use this
payment now so that's that's straight on
rounds accurate well give them that yeah
yeah and we're also at the point where
people are starting to get chips inside
like their hands like those companies
that are using chips that I mean that's
going the way of Technology I mean maybe
not your thumb but swipe the back your
hand and hey look you've just bought a
new computer they used they use
biometrics and other ways in the movie
where when Jennifer got to her apartment
in the future the thumb was able to open
the door that's right yeah we do have
that and we have that exactly like this
doesn't work so well in Canada in the
winter especially the thumbprint frozen
or make sure your finger is not wet
that's a kick just like that so we have
that yeah than that one too so they have
a bang on with that kind of stuff did I
AT&amp;T develop it uh not so much not so
much yeah are we talking about jaws at
any point that whole scene do we have
that yes I have that because i have to
say with the jaws thing it's sort of if
you take sharknado which there have been
a billion up and combine it with jaws
yeah and we have the 3d technology at
home right so like if you mash all of
that together that's it obviously I'm
team back to the future I think they got
everything right they really touched on
a lot of social things as well as the
technological things we're mainly
focusing on the technological but it's
fun to mention some of
sociological stuff as well but yeah
looking at jaws 19 Jeff and I had the
discussion last on friday that it kind
of alluded to not only the jaws thing
but our obsession with remakes of movies
and you know we've got the new Star Wars
coming out we've got another Star Trek
coming out which is the 12 or 13 movies
and some reason they're like we're we're
obsessed with it so you think jaws 19
will star trek is not far off from 19 at
this point that's true yeah and and it's
so it kind of hinted at an obsession
that is is completely legit and it also
it's the the thing about the obsession
of nature vs Man which we have so many
aspect yes so many of those so yeah it
was interesting the one thing that was
funny about the the holographic imaging
though is that it actually came at him
right bid him we're not quite there yet
not quite but well at my home theater I
was watching Oh what's the one I'm gonna
get in trouble for not remembering if
they're all tall and blue James Cameron
did it what was that avatar so you know
what they throw the smoke bomb at out of
Thailand blue purple probably what's
that really good movie good epic movie
that everybody watched so I was watching
it with Dave on the couch and I teased
him about this all the time the smoke
bomb came at us and it looked very
realistic we just got our three 3d TV
and he dodged out of the way and he left
me to take the smoke okay well that's
interesting because 3d TV is kind of a
form of mock holographics yeah in a way
and of course we're seeing similar kind
of things with hollow lens and some of
the certainly VR where mm-hmm and they
will talk about that as well but so is
that kind of pushing us toward that and
there's holographic imagery that's of
available in some certain advertising
and things like that but yeah you're
right it doesn't come at you yes quite
in that way yeah but interesting about
that whole scene I mean that I'm going
to say was probably like a 10-15 minute
segment within the movie
was the biggest component of having all
of those tech ideas I mean yeah like I
was just go go go I'm sitting here
because it's just one thing after
another of these amazing suggestions of
what the future may hold yes yeah it was
going fat and I thought it was funny
that you're using a pen and paper and
I'm on my yeah phone typing it out
that's what all right here we go yeah
building 85 with 2015 yeah speaking of
that and back at the kind of
sociological aspects is the the whole
apparel mm-hmm what was foreseen as this
is how we're going to look can have for
example as yeah aliens are coming to
attack us right fluorescent colors band
X paper we've got that I think that even
though it looked kind of quirky and
cartoony we have those weird like trends
that are sort of like turning your
pockets inside out it's not pockets
inside out exactly but it's like leaving
the sticker on your baseball cap right
that sort of thing that is kind of weird
yeah we have that even yeah I mean
people wearing glasses without lenses
just because the frames look trendy that
kind of stuff right yeah it's kind of
odd now the Cubs so yes here's my point
back to the future did they predict the
future or is the future influent role
are we influenced by watching the movie
because I have to say it might be and
who knows maybe the Cubs will win the
World Series but is it a placebo effect
that they've just always believed that
at this point they will win and now
they've got it in their heads and here
we go that's a strange 1i can see with
technology for example the hoverboard
which we're going to talk about after
that I think we should do the news and
then we'll come back to it but that's
something that you could say the movie
impacted society to say we really want
that so let's start building it and
people are working on building
hoverboards whereas something like the
Cubs making it to the World Series which
is alluded to in the movie it looks like
that could be a reality in 2015
it hasn't happened since nineteen oh
eight so that can't be influenced by the
movie right just a bang on assessment i
guess or good guess a hopeful guess
which they in they put in as a bit of a
laugh but then the kids that watch that
movie are now the players yeah playing
the game so there's you think they're
stoked and this is like their adrenaline
rush to you think we're gonna do it this
year but this is the year collective
conscious that they expect the win it's
right everybody our that positive think
exactly everybody accepts the win or
expected unless you live in toronto yes
you not the Blue Jays are gonna win what
do you talk that's right yeah all right
I think that's yeah that's an
interesting point and and I don't know
if there's any truth to you know the
power of positive thinking or whatever
but maybe there is a little bit of an
aspect of that where other players that
are not on the Cubs team thing okay well
they're the Cubs and the it's almost
like a subconscious thing this is like
this is really happening but at the end
of the day though the Cubs don't have
about you stuff Carol all right we're
gonna head over to the newsroom and
we're going to talk more back to the
future two in just a couple of minutes
time get into the chat room category
five on freenode also you can visit our
website triple w category five dot TV
and email us your questions or comments
live at category five dot TV over to the
newsroom here is Sasha term adis it's
Tuesday October twentieth 2015 and here
are the stories were covering this week
a crowdfunded space simulation has
received nearly 93 million dollars in
support even though it only looked to
raise a half a million will give you the
lowdown on what this means for star
citizen supporters will share another
example of how malvert izing which is
displaying malware infected code add
code on a website is occurring and this
time it happened on the Daily Mail
website jpg is trying to lock down its
image file format and add copy
protection among other restrictions to
the file type Tesla is rolling out
autonomous car features through a
firmware update and we told you on a
previous show that Star Trek renegades
is going forward with the web series now
more of your favorite cast I mean crew
members are joining the show will tell
you who in just a few minutes these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere you've got mad skills now hone
them learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / Linda I'm Sasha
dramatis adhere the top stories from the
category 5 TV newsroom crowdfunded space
simulation game star citizen has now
racked up 1 million backers between them
the backers have given almost ninety
three million dollars to the development
the developers of the game excuse me to
mark the milestone star citizen will now
be free for all of those who have put
cash down to support it the next big
release in the game's development will
let players fly ships battle and trade
in a massive online universe star
citizen was launched via Kickstarter in
late 2012 and sought just five hundred
thousand dollars to get development of
the game started the involvement of
veteran
games maker chris Roberts best known for
the Wing Commander series of games drove
interest in the project which had raised
24 million dollars by the time its
Kickstarter campaign ended remember they
just wanted 500,000 since then
fundraising has continued on the main
star citizen site as people have paid to
get early access to the game as it
developed and by buying starships that
they will eventually fly around its
persistent virtual universe early
versions of parts of the game have been
released to give people an idea of what
the finished product will be like as
well as letting people explore and fight
online star citizen will also have a
single-player mission based element
called squadron 42 well known actors
including mark hamill gary oldman and
gillian anderson are providing voices
for some of the characters in the game
anyone who contributed to the fundraiser
is getting a free copy of the game and
in-game credits to get them started this
blows my mind because I know it's very
hard to fundraise day to day I mean we
have massive expenses here at studio D
and here's here is you know star citizen
they said well we just need five hundred
thousand dollars and the world responded
it's amazing so yeah we just need five
hundred percent that's the key thing
we're just gonna you just got to tell
the people please send five hundred
thousand dollars okay a security company
has discovered that readers of The Daily
Mail's website were shown fake
advertisements that linked to malware
bogus ads ads for shoes briefly appeared
among the selection of banners displayed
on Daily Mail calm instead of online
shops the advertisements linked to
malware that can expose computers to
ransomware this ransom wearing Crips
files on a victim's computer and asks
for a payment to decrypt them again the
practice is known as mal vertising
security company malwarebytes made the
discovery last week and published a
report about its findings online the
report says malwarebytes contacted the
Daily Mail and relevant advertising
networks about the issue on Friday by
Monday morning the security company was
informed that the fake ads
been removed I have two points about
this it's horrible that now this
happened so often that there is a word
for it malvert izing and secondly ads
for shoes who do you think they were
targeting hmm are you gender
stereotyping over there what you said
you like she what yeah bald guys
obviously Sasha with you shopping
shopping for shoes that day right I I
think that it's easy when you're maybe
sitting at a computer reading the mail
early in the morning you know having
your coffee you're living a busy hectic
life and you click on a shoe ad Yeah
right which would happen because I've
been searching and searching for
self-lacing shoes the past week you look
at my searches that's true yes sir true
story well more on that because I think
we've got that tale that's true okay
jpeg pictures could soon have built-in
restrictions making them harder to
coffee if recommendations by the body
overseeing the format are implemented
the joint photographic experts group or
jpeg committee has called for controls
on how image data in jpeg files is
accessed it is thought this would
protect copyright and safeguard the
privacy of people in the images however
rights groups have said the features
might harm creativity in an online
summary of the proposals the JPEG
Committee said photographs were often
redistributed without relevant rights
information attached so they could be
easily copied or published again without
permission and in some cases the privacy
of the photographer could be compromised
if the metadata embedded in the images
which could include the geo location of
where the photo was taken was accessible
the JPEG committee has no concrete plans
to change the JPEG format yet but hopes
to seek technological solutions once the
specifics of the new proposals have been
decided hmmm I'm of two minds on this
because I would want the privacy of the
people taking the pictures to be
protected but I also kind of want to use
the pictures yeah that's a kind of a
hard call right because geolocation
obviously you need to turn that off on
your phone if you're going to be posting
the pictures on facebook or something
like
because you don't want pictures of your
kids playing in the playground with that
little pin on the map but is that the
motivation that sounds more like copy
protection which jpg has always been a
format that you can just share tough
thing it's a tough thing now this is
very back to the future Tesla has
launched a software update for its
vehicles enabling the cars to have an
autopilot mode while not fully self
driving the software means that the
model as in New Model X can
automatically steer down highways change
lanes and adjust speed in response to
traffic Tesla chief executive Elon Musk
said the autopilot mode was designed to
increase driver confidence on the road
however mr. musk said users adopting the
software available in North America as
of this past Thursday should exercise
caution while using it especially in
conditions such as snow it should not
hit pedestrians hopefully he told the
media it should handle them well it
should handle that well he has a lot of
faith he added that if the car is
involved in a collision the driver is
still liable it's all in one breath yeah
Wow he is fully confident the driver
cannot advocate responsibility that will
come at some point in the future it
wasn't me it was my car other regions of
the world would be updated in the next
couple of weeks pending on regulatory
approval the software uses a combination
of cameras radar ultrasonic sensors and
mapping data to determine its position
and navigate when the car has arrived at
its destination it is able to scan for
an available space and park itself
that's what I most want I want a car
that will I can park it just fine I just
wanted to find the spot unlock unlike
Google which is aiming for fully
autonomous vehicles Tesla's approach is
to gradually introduce features which
take away the need for drivers to carry
out certain functions so again as we
were speaking in the back to the future
I mean this is just one step toward and
I don't mean to make
light of what he says seriously I think
that this car actually might really help
because most of the errors on the
highway are human error yeah so at least
the car will slow down if you're about
to rear-end somebody what an interesting
fact that they can update it by a
firmware that suddenly oh by the way
today your car has autonomous driving
capabilities yeah how cool is that yeah
cool but on the flip side how horrible
would it be if you you know oh by the
way your car no longer has brakes right
I don't know that that's part of the
program no oh you mean if someone hacked
the firmware updated it with something
that right rude it up right or like all
of a sudden every red car is seen as an
available parking space something like
that or that's been times the green cars
like a green screen they just there's I
don't can't see them that's right who
knows right all right you know him as
the former McEachern first officer of
the starship Voyager Robert Beltran is
report reprising his role as Chakotay
and joining the cast of Star Trek
renegades in addition to Chakotay is
return we'll also see the reunion of nog
and Jake the two best friends from Star
Trek Deep Space nine in an upcoming
episode of Star Trek renegades and if
that's not enough you'll never guess
who's coming back dad set Jadzia a jetta
sorry oh I'll just let the dads yeah
I'll just let that burn in for a moment
yeah Jadzia dad Jadzia Dax how is that
possible Jadzia Dax it'll be fun to see
how they bring her back from the dead
unless they set the timeline to take
place before Jezzy is death at the end
of ds9 season six that doesn't make a
lot of sense since everyone's much older
we'll just have to wait and see although
in the in the Star Trek renegades movie
was there not a holographic imaging of
somebody who had passed away was it
jedzie attacks it wasn't Jadzia no but
there was there was somebody
it was like the engineer or something
and he was actually hologram that was
downloaded and broadcast across
spodumene the doctor was it the Robert
Picardo yeah well they used the doctor
but they had another hologram I want to
say he was an engineer and in law there
was the scene where the doctor was able
to actually physically interact with
yeah but but in the movie there's the
engineer who is holographic I believe
because the doctor was helping build the
programming for it or something to that
effect oh oh spoiler alert spoiler alert
you mean the one that we don't actually
know is a hologram yeah how was that one
I'm gonna fire that I use in big trouble
it's one thing to me like Jadzia but wow
now I don't need to watch it cuz now I
know what happened yeah if you haven't
seen episode one yet you can watch it
for free right now on YouTube not right
now after the show simply type renegades
episode 1 into the youtube search big
thanks this week to write w nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us if you found a new story
you'd like to send email at to newsroom
at category 5 TV for all your tech news
with a slight linux bias visit the
category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm Sasha dramatis thanks Sasha
they say is category 5 technology TV
you'll find our website triple w
category five dot TV and as well if
you're looking for great deal on cheap
hosting you can go to cat5 TV /
dreamhost and we've got a coupon code
for you ready cat5 TV stuff one but that
470 bucks that will get you one year of
carbon neutral lamp hosting that's linux
apache PHP mysql it's we're now on solid
state hard drives one year free domain
registration unlimited storage space for
your websites 50 gig backup account for
storing your office back up that's huge
yeah you always want off-site backup
service absolutes included it's it's
included ya rabba bowls 50 gigs which is
you know that's that's a sizable amount
I think all of your documents and
probably probably all of your family
photos and stuff would be backed up with
enough oh man I've lost family photos
before cuz it back up properly so i
could use that there you go you can also
host an unlimited number of domains on
your account at no extra charge it's
just the cost of registering a domain
sure unlimited bandwidth unlimited email
accounts all for 70 bucks so that's cat
5 TV / dreamhost and the coupon code is
cat 5 TB sweet thanks Jeff no problem
alright let's get back into back to the
future two there was a lot of tech
covered in the show that was probably a
realistic and a lot that was thrown in
as a joke some of its come true some of
it is impossible let's let's talk about
those so when I think about cat category
5 when I think about pack tonight future
at all the time there there are two
things that always jump to the forefront
of my mind okay there's Marty's clothes
yeah and there's the hoverboard yeah
like you think of back to the future too
and there that is the image that comes
to your mind and oddly enough there may
be a possibility for both in production
actually with the clothes you can get
jackets that do sense whether you're wet
or not whether it's got the awesome
drying clothes yes now not like in the
movie no not not seems like that Helen
clothes where is them but there are
there are tech jackets that will tell
you that for like if you're on the ski
hills and whatnot that is true I'm just
supporting you one hundred percent as I
try to find one educate last Christmas
for Dave there are jackets that sense
your core temperature and they will keep
you it's like you climate control your
jacket and it will I guess if you're if
you're wet it would dry you off right if
you're cold it heats you up yes yeah
they're not immediately available does
stephen hawking's
to you I I don't believe it has Stephen
Hawking voice that was pretty awesome I
at the time I when I watched as a kid I
didn't recognize me Stephen Hawking was
but right as soon as I heard the boys
yesterday I'm like that's awesome the
self drying yes okay so hoverboards
that's that to me is really excited and
and the clothing yeah there's some stuff
and I've seen some that also communicate
with the dryer so if you throw it in the
dryer it knows that it can only do
certain types of drying they also have
our garments for women that monitor your
heart and your I guess your blood
pressure and stuff when you're working
out they have smart smart sports bras
hmm that's interesting and it makes
sense because the sensors could be
placed anywhere right and so placed
strategically in the best position to
sense pulse and temperature and all that
kind of stuff well it works cool clothes
do you need it with a Fitbit though I
have a fit then so that's like one step
closer right I can always tell you what
my heart rate is doesn't tell you the
blood pressure but it does tell me that
I drank a whole lot of coffee I don't
need a Fitbit to tell me that okay so
hoverboards yes hoverboards this is a
real thing not like in the movie because
again they depict it as something that
every kid and every person has they
carry them around in a briefcase yeah
yeah briefcase also with really horrible
80s colors yeah the flashy is ironic for
2015 that's true the 80s are back I so
what do we have as far as hoverboards go
right now the hand oh of course is the
one that stands out yes arch tax brought
it to Kickstarter last October and said
we're you know we're developing this
they had a really impressive promotional
video that showed how their hand over
board works basically a copper plated or
bronze or something like that i think it
was copper is almost like copper pipe
that be very expensive copper we don't
use petty's anymore in canada it just
melt down the pen because it just lay
out penalties and glue them down let's
say so this thing creates a magnetic
field between the copper and the
hoverboard and is able to get between
one and eight inches off the ground it's
pretty impressive pretty smooth
so they went into Kickstarter and said
that we're gonna do this thing we're
going to launch it on october 21st 2015
in honor of back to the future it was
like what 10 grand or something for each
board i can't recall the details that
the the original kickstarter program
what they were doing but they did
announce just on thursday i think it was
that they are a go for tomorrow they are
going to be launching this to a select
group of people essentially the people
who supported them on kickstarter are
going to be receiving one as promised
but they have but they've streamlined it
they actually worked with tony hawk
obviously a notable skater and worked
with him to to change the design of the
thing make it sleeker make it more like
a skateboard smaller quieter more energy
efficient because I guess the battery
life is a big consideration of here I
think the original models like seven
minutes or something like that I know
good yeah so they're they're improving
that they haven't released all the
details today but we're going to be
hearing all about it I'm sure tomorrow
after their promotional event when they
actually release this thing it's kind of
under embargo at the moment so we're not
a not able to get the information what's
interesting about it is they've been
presenting it do you think about where
where you can skate of course this is
not something you're going to be able to
skate down the main street or in a
parking lot at your local grocery store
right like a skateboard because it has
to have a certain surface right so what
they're doing it but think about skate
parks so they're approaching skate parks
and communities to build skate parks
designed specifically for the hoverboard
who or the hendo is what they call it so
makes me wonder if they put like in the
cement when they make a skatepark even
just little bits of copper or whatever
the metallic substance that would be
acquired and if that would be enough or
if it requires a complete layer of it
yeah I'm not sure of the the technology
looking at the the promotional videos it
does look like like a sheet yeah of
copper that could be a bit of an issue
doing a park like that because i know
that copper people will go in and steal
copper wiring yeah homes and from
construction sites because they want to
sell it because copper goes for such a
high price I guess right so the new gold
yeah I I would rather do a hoverboard
over water I think haha here's a thought
before we get into that because we've
got one yes even though in Back to the
Future to they don't operate over water
back down one that does thinking along
those lines Sasha you're right it would
be a big problem as far as thieves go
and stuff like that but I also think
copper what does it do in the rain oh
yeah rain gets rusty it's really bad for
that so would this be something more to
build indoor park oh that's true or as
Jeff was saying maybe we could do a
sheet of copper but then do the concrete
above it I know that the horns don't
work over water in back to the future
but could they work over concrete if
there was copper right underneath it
right because nobody's gonna chop up
concrete to get at the copper you would
think oh yeah you'd be surprised what
people yeah it'll be interesting to see
what what they announced tomorrow and
and what what plans they have for that
because you're to build a park out of
would cost a heck of a lot of money
mm-hmm to build it out a copper like
who's gonna pay for that it's not going
to be the guys that are well maybe the
people that are buying the hoverboards
they've obviously got a lot of money
would you invest in the park to use it
maybe you would maybe that'd be if it
was the world for I park there trying to
get them all over the place yeah hmm the
being true and then I guess you know is
it patented technology if it is it can't
succeed because then you've got only one
manufacturer building it and that never
goes maybe this is the real reason we
got rid of the penny yeah our government
is returning the bank and the bank ship
them through the new hover parks all
right now all coming from Canada you up
speaking of coming from Canada a
hoverboard that does work on water so
now this this was presented in the news
back in May a guy from Montreal Quebec
capelin Alexandra duru he actually broke
the world record for a hoverboard flight
the longest I don't even know the like
category apparently there is and he's
the one to be one and a half minutes on
a hoverboard over water and this is a
little bit different so his approach and
his company's approaches a lot different
think along the lines of a multi
right a multi-rotor so this looks
to have several propellers and he stands
on it and is able to fly like a like a
hoverboard a little bit further above he
flew about five meters above the lake in
his demonstration for for the actual
prize that's impressive but it flew it
flew I like this I like this better than
hoverboards on land because it's like
the maternal instinct in me and I don't
want to see broken noses or sure teeth
so if you're hoverboarding above water
at least when you fall which I assume
you will do yes you will fall into the
water yeah I think that's probably the
idea but this would fly over land too
and just like now I've got the opposite
approach with my quadcopter I will only
fly over land because I don't want to
fly over water because I might crash and
if I crash in water I'm gonna ruin my
quadcopter cuz it's not waterproof right
but when I get good at it I'm gonna try
water as well because I want to do some
cool videos and stuff make sure your
batteries charged yes so would it be the
opposite where you get really good over
water that's your training ground and
then you take it to to land but it needs
some streamlining and the company that
that makes it guru's company is called
Omni hoverboards they're working on a
top-secret project to streamline this
thing make it streamline a mainstream
and make it so that it's something
that's available to the I purchasers I'd
be interested to see how fast it could
go because I mean if if they're using is
being very careful but I think this is
it this is a test for how long can I go
yeah that's not your chance to show off
thats your chance to just stay stable
yeah but I mean you figure he was up
five
meters he went was it a minute a half or
something like that yeah minute and a
half his trip was 275 point nine meters
okay so you're you're almost a third
between a quarter and a third of a
kilometer okay in a minute and a half so
obviously he had some some movement
speed to him probably faster than a
walking pace I try to do some quick math
my head I don't know but you know if he
picked up the speed I mean you're 15
meters up what happened live meters
where's yeah sorry 15 feet 5 meters what
happens if you just you tilt a little
bit too far forward and you know oh yeah
you're going down and this thing is
slicing through you like cheese but for
him he's going down into the drink like
uslike went down onto a carp a copper
you know that's bad yeah this is true
yeah you know and if you have self
drying clothes on no harm no foul you're
good ok so it's it that's happening
we're not there yet no we've got some
other technologies from Back to the
Future 2 to talk about this is category
5 technology TV welcome to the show why
are we doing this tomorrow is a big day
that's right just several hours from now
almost there folks Marty we fly a bit
Brown and Jen for whatever kharghar
Parker that's what'll as Jennifer Parker
enters the future or our present our
present yeah they're going to be here
tomorrow I'm waiting for it yes it's
gonna be rainy at 429 Pete am in
California yeah I hope so I didn't I
hope I didn't get shot you check the
weather because I would just begin to
ironic that would be weird okay what
else have we got self-lacing shoes
that's animal we see in the future or
the present day nike has a patent for
self-lacing shoes and other companies
have been trying to bring something out
nike has been alluding to now they had
their mag several years ago which was a
paying homage to the the movie series
right and it was cool but it was a small
run it wasn't something you got to the
store to buy it was more for collectors
and that's right and enthusiasts and
fans of the show the movies but would
they actually come to market now they've
got the next generation of shoes
which they have now patented Power laces
in the US and as you step into the shoe
it automatically laces itself up not
sure about the whole technology behind
it but there have been others that have
brought out Kickstarter and IndieGoGo
campaigns trying to develop self tying
shoes and unfortunately none of them
have really come to fruition I just
don't know if it's a big enough market I
mean at the end of the day we've got
slip-on shoes play we got velcro yeah
and it's not entirely difficult to tie
up your laces unless year you know
you're like my four year old who's going
what are the mighty it might be one of
the money is yeah okay so day-to-day
shoes maybe not but I have a pair of
snowboard boots and a pair of skates
who's gonna make me seem really lazy
that'll be cool but all I do is twist a
dial right know if that child with
mechanized then I wouldn't even have to
do that but it self Titans and no shoes
are it while shoes but those are hard to
lace up yeah that's true because they've
got such a robust body to them and
that's why and same with my snowboard
boots I hated the straps and I don't
have the fancy shmancy little turning
dial I have oh you're so fancy shmancy
over there you know I'm the news anchor
of category 5 LED TV I have to
absolutely be on the leading edge this
is how I justify all of my purchases
okay now we know why is your hair
husband runs from the smoke bombs an
hour there's a credit card so the best
one that I saw as far as a campaign goes
you step in there's no batteries needed
at automatically laces by a sensor in
the heel of the shoe on no batteries no
batteries it's some kind of a mechanism
where as you push it it pulls in the
laces and then you click it in it and
loosens it again so you can slip them
off pretty neat stuff yeah but
unfortunately didn't make their goal
because I guess there's just there's not
an it's a hard thing because how who
wants to invest in something that they
can't try on but if I can't see it and
actually physically hold it in my hand
and say oh yeah this is awesome put it
on my foot and it's great it's a
it's a tough thing and I think it's such
a niche market because it's not it's
this is a technology that's not really
needed but would be a lot of fun for
fans it's worth it was Stalin nostalgic
I think people might catch on to this
though because they put advertisements
for shoes on The Daily Mail somebody
will click on it yes it has been known
to happen folks yes so self-lacing shoes
again not something that we can just go
into the store and buy but they are
working on it its patented technology
and it is coming as Nike has alluded to
whoo laws other companies okay Bionic
implants ah yes riff had Bionic implants
that were malfunctioning which caused
him to be a 2015 ours yeah yeah I mean
just the genetics of the whole Biff
Griff sure family were just for all who
names their kid grip that's sure if your
name is Griff I'm sorry if you know what
I figured this out it's grandson of biff
Griff grant mom so draw that would be
gruff yeah gross ah it says it's closed
closed you got the bionics good week
they've gotten it yes yes apps okay
that's the thing that I want to talk
about bionics not only in the head so
you think about stroke victims who have
nerve centers of the brain that are no
longer functioning we now have devices
that will stimulate those centers of the
brain to help to give them some sense of
normalcy in life that's pretty
incredible absolutely also the the Griff
and his friends seem to have bionic
limbs through some degree when he got
kicked in a certain region you heard a
metal Klein maybe a little exaggerated
but certainly the Bionic arms this is
something that we've looked at this is
something that we've talked about Bionic
hands the ability to give somebody with
missing limbs that's right robotic limbs
cochlear implants I mean that's a bionic
yeah yeah yeahs you came here yes so no
we've got that one all right so one more
for back to the future too absolutely
what else do we got because we're
running short on time but self fueling
cars is another one that
we have a station right on the south end
of Barry for Tesla cars yes you just
pull up and plug in your car and it's
not quite the same extent where you know
a robot does the work comes down and
plugs it in but it's it's pretty close
pretty close and we're talking about the
hydrogen car a little bit earlier to
think that those cars are able to be
fueled in under five minutes that's true
yeah unlike the electric car that
requires possibly several hours to
charge their they're quite quick about
it so so that could actually be a thing
mm-hmm again not quite there right you
don't see them on every street corner
and it's not going to take over the
world anytime soon as right yes but I
mean so at this point we've covered
everything that kind of happened at the
town hall scene but then there was also
the home gadgets there was a whole bunch
of home stuff before we get into the
home though we can't move away without
just saying I'm pretty sure the doc was
holding an iphone or some cast a
binocular that's a camera like devices
you know what else does the doc had like
a face thing where he peeled away his
face it was like a plastic surgeon he
said I feel like we do that like the wit
like women do that now well I mean we
don't peel away look we're not like but
we have that sort of technology on more
of a health side of things where we do
facial peels and we do that sort of it
was highly exaggerated but they really
did allude to the the thought that in
2015 plastic surgery is a huge thing
yeah and he said that you know he had
had all this stuff done and then he
peels off the old face and it's the new
fresh face yeah well kind of just
alluding to it not the way we do it but
certainly there is a plastic surgery
obsession that's right yeah so yeah ok
so there so the home we've got panels
everywhere yeah every light switch it
was tech run it was there's no door
handles like you use your thumbprint to
open the door the one that you'd mention
it and I just saw it didn't even think
anything of it because it was so common
for us now but yeah flat panel TVs
hanging on the wall yeah aren't off
okay i want channels 1824 60 397 why
don't you yeah and the skype abilities
hey Big M how's it hanging McFly like
already they nail that and I don't even
know how they did that did they have the
technology that I think about plasma TVs
back in the eighties as being really the
closest yeah flat screen that they had
yeah those were like the there was like
yeah it was a reactionary thing you
couldn't hang it on a wall that's for
sure yeah so flat screen TVs they nailed
that there was also the scenery's your
scenery channel yeah that rolled up just
like blinds and we have TVs platters
look to me now it looked like a
projector screen a little but it looked
like so yeah we have projectors now that
are readily available we've got them
that can plug into a phone and they're
about this big yep we've also got OLED
display when we can roll up a screen and
boom were that's that's the roll-up
screen so those are pretty impressive
too we don't have fax machines fax
please in every house three fax machines
in every pouts yeah not quite there are
still areas of the world that use facts
we're not one of them I'm not a
government office ladies facts in my
office you're yeah there you go yeah
point in case yeah well I think that's
all the time that we have I wanted to
talk about the price of cars being 39
million eight hundred ninety nine
thousand nine hundred and ninety five
dollars to ya the most expensive car
that I could find in our research for
this episode was called the Maybach la
Excel arrow which was eight million
dollars so nowhere close to the already
million dollars right but I mean maybe
the currency conversion isn't quite
accurate right because its Jamaica it
costs three hundred and fifty dollars
for a burger okay that's true right but
they also thought the Pepsi a bottle
depends on would be fifty dollars right
and back to the future 24 can I just say
that to win because if in the Pepsi coke
wars I am team Pepsi
I love Oh for sponsorship I think Pepsi
is coming out with an addition um you
know how the the Pepsi perfect or
whatever it was called what was a call i
dinnae i'm a coke guy so they're coming
in this car coming at you decide ok what
uh can we hit on really quick there is a
there was a delivery system at the
restaurant that gave yes the TV whose
orders they've got that flying cameras
looked exactly like drones yes that's
right the USA Today hauser end of a
drone like camera when the activity was
going on at City Hall yes and there's so
much else that we could cover I can't
believe that we filled a whole hour with
talking about back to the future too
there was so many great ideas that came
to fruition and as sasha says were they
influenced by back the future where they
like prophetic that this was coming yeah
i think a lot of it was influenced by
but but we'll see what happens out the
Cubs lots of it and if you haven't seen
it lately go check it out it was a lot
of fun to watch it as an adult yeah and
a whole lot different than I many here
since I've see back in the future too
that's all the time that we have for
today guys thanks everyone for being
here visit our website triple w category
5 TV and see you again next week I can I
do
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and find out and you can watch live and
interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
