I've been really preparing for our tenth
anniversary show here at category five
and we've all been through this where
you know you you have trouble
decluttering and organizing and my
biggest challenge here at the studio is
as you saw today yeah yeah Suzu I was
explaining to her that you know you look
at the boxes that we have of product
that it has been sent in to review and
and I know that there are some companies
that are watching even right now who
maybe don't understand when I've
unfortunately had to turn your products
away and this happens and this has
happened you know more more regularly
now than ever before
so we've got boxes of stuff to review
and then in come more boxes yeah while
you're standing here now we've got more
so so I unpack these boxes we review the
product as quickly as we can and then
we've got packaging we've got through
this where we just you know I'm not here
enough to keep up right so what happens
to the items after you're done with them
do you send them back or do they stay or
you hold on to them they stay so we we
quite often put them on display oh yeah
for for the companies that are promoting
their products through us will write off
and bring them out again
and sometimes will even give them away
as prizes Wow so that's ultimately the
goal is to be able to okay I see that
makes sense
hmm so in terms of segwaying into this
this this book that I've read so you
know this is this is my predicament yeah
yeah and she's who contacted me and said
you've got to check out this book mm-hmm
tell us about this okay well so the book
is called the life-changing magic of
tidying up and it's by author Mary a
condo she's a Japanese declutter er
that's what she does for a living now so
this book this is her job absolutely and
actually there are now consultants all
over the world
he fired first then ya know you're
pretty thorough you'd get it so it's a
it was a New York Times bestseller
number one bestseller I think in and
around the beginning of 2016 so this
lady has a her so she's a decluttering
slash cleaner home organizer for a
living
she has a waiting list of three months
of clients really and the claim is that
after tidying up the way she does it you
will never have to do it again so it's
not the kind of thing where you do it on
a monthly basis do it around the six
months year you do it once and it's done
so I'm not sure if that applies exactly
to your scenario because your home I can
see it working yes definitely so
basically I did this method this past
Saturday
so I took twelve hours of my life out to
take my room apart and at the end of it
I had 12 bags of like 12 garbage bags
sitting in my living room Wow
there was so much stuff I had no idea
myself that I was such a hoarder like I
had so much stuff and my way of cleaning
up prior to this was just to organize
stuff you know just put the clothes
where the clothes were supposed to go
books where the books are supposed to go
that was the way I cleaned up I always
felt better afterwards
but this time was different so her
method is different in one specific way
and that is she focuses like the the
subtitle is actually decluttering and
organizing so the first part is
decluttering and the rule that she goes
by is to only keep things that spark joy
okay yeah so what that means is that if
you have a shirt say that you wear once
every three months and you have maybe
doesn't fit quite right yeah you kind of
like it and you're like you have mixed
feelings
that one's got to go get rid of it yet
get rid of shirts that I despise okay so
yeah so this is gonna be arranged it's
gonna be shirts that you absolutely
despise a shirt that maybe you know a
relative gave to you 10 years ago that
you're holding on to for mementos sake
there's gonna be a shirt that you just
bought last week that was expensive it
didn't fit quite right and then there's
gonna be that shirt that's going to be
like oh my god
I love this shirt I love wearing it it's
it sparks joy and so this is the method
you go through and it's very methodical
you go through clothes first and then
all the different types of clothings
tops spotters all that kind of thing
books and then papers which relates a
little bit to technology in the sense
that she basically says get rid of all
paper except for two types one type is
paper that you need to action on like
let's say it's a government document
that you need to send back like a bill
or something yeah something like that
that you need to action on and the
second type is basically any kind of
financial records that you absolutely
have to keep so in that sense having a
computer with a good Google Drive or
whatever kind of technology is a great
way of keeping your your site paperless
aside from those types of jobs so would
we start scanning things that the answer
probably not I would say if she had like
a suite to this this book in terms of
translating that into a technology kind
of kind of field she would probably keep
that to a minimum as well because the
idea is is to have the least number of
things on your mind yeah your room but
also like your mind in your life yeah so
that's that's part of the results which
is so I will get back to you on on that
question what do you do with all of that
stuff well what comes to mind Becca you
know like we get tons and tons of papers
from the from the kids teachers yeah
yeah like it's ridiculous and every
parent out there knows exactly what I'm
talking about
Jeff is it yeah is it important to have
the actual papers could you not just
take a picture of them and like file
them in like grade three like just have
a file of like grade three pictures I
want to know your answer to that we run
into this predicament of these are
sentimental in the way that our kids
have done these crafts and even math
homework and things that you know I'm so
proud that my son got a hundred percent
on his math yeah and so you know you
want to hold on to that what you know
obviously you've got to go through it
you know and
we recycle it to get rid of it what's
what's kind of the answer there the
answer should be magic this exactly on
the cover of the book and I feel like
having great words like magic on the
cover of a book are great but anyway
she's been doing this kind of work just
as a side note since she was five years
old so she's been obsessed basically
with a home organization she would throw
out bags of stuff that belonged to her
parents like she would go through the
house and just organize things take time
off of school to do these things correct
me if I'm wrong this is her method this
is her method she developed this yeah
she developed this method and so one of
the things that she did do at one point
in time was like try to take pictures of
the things that she found valuable and
so she's gone through all of these
methods and I think her answer would be
- that does it spark joy and if it does
hold on to it you know and if it doesn't
then you know you kind of you know you
say goodbye you know and that's what the
the process was like for me when I was
doing it was you know this this old
t-shirt they had had for about ten years
I said goodbye to it literally had tears
in my eyes because I was just like this
needs to go at this not for me anymore
and I just said goodbye but those things
that do spark joy you hold on to them
that's interesting and I like that ends
a lot of times with these kinds of
philosophies or sayings or jzn they're
the opposite is true
so in the opposite to that is things
that bring sadness or bad memories yeah
those kinds of things they can just go
exactly and that's the interesting part
about it is that it's very subjective
it's because for example you might come
across something that objectively came
from someone that let's say from a
parent or someone that you were close to
at one time but it causes you a lot of
pain when you see it because it reminds
you of something negative for someone
else they might say well well it comes
from this person so you should hold on
to it but for you personally it's about
how you feel about it so if you feel
this it's a weight you need to let it go
so it's an interesting process and I
found it for myself
points quite emotional and once the
process was done I felt quite calm and
more confident with my decision-making
because going through all of those
things hundreds of things of thinking to
myself does it spark joy does that what
emotion does this cause me to have to
let it go all these things that were
kind of caught up in my mind and in the
past are now kind of physically gone so
so actually this book is interesting
because the results are really
interesting for her clients
she's cited some clients have gone
through tremendous relationship changes
afterwards like for example separations
for example it can get pretty severe but
also like career changes and people
getting clarity about what they want to
do with their lives so to me it makes
sense I'm only you know so far a few
days into it but I feel much more chill
as a person as a result yeah is there a
part two to it so you're decluttering
the things that you already have but
have you changed the mindset for
acquiring new things now are you only
bringing into your life yeah are you joy
well it definitely it's a good question
cuz now I find when I go shopping or
when I go around window shopping I don't
feel like I want to buy anything because
I'm I have that process in mind already
like what is going to bring me joy and I
already feel like I'm somewhat satisfied
where I am I guess now the only thing is
just buying things that may be okay
that's kind of embarrassing but so my my
collection of socks will say was not the
best and so I had to throw out a bunch
of them right now now I have to get new
ones essentially so these these are the
kinds of things that you recognize that
right old pair of sandals that I was
wearing for the past like two years like
they really needed to go and now I need
to get a new pair so you're looking at
things more in a long-term perspective
and a not in a perspective of oh you
know I feel like just buying something
right now right because you think oh no
I'm gonna have to deal with that when I
get home is it very cool we're talking
about the book the life-changing magic
of tidying up with our guest she's ooh
Yamaguchi and this book is actually
available through our shop it's Kat v
dot TV slash tidy
I'll get you there so how can we try it
now this is obviously good advice and
it's something that I want to learn for
for my own life and for like that home
and and just keeping things tidy and and
getting rid of some junk but how can I
translate this into my office space my
studio space those at home who have home
offices it's a good example I know we've
all got a lot of clutter that we could
probably do away with and it would be so
freeing to it I would say to to take the
book and just go through the process
with your home office I think that would
be the message I think by going through
your papers and going through items such
as things that are being sent in you
would for yourself get a sense of what
kinds of things you'll want to keep and
what things you'll you'll put away or
you know the categories of things I
think will become more clear as you go
through the process of what you already
have so I feel like kind of dealing with
what you already have we'll make that
path clear for the future as to what you
want to bring in and keep and how you
want to deal with that so I would I
would highly recommend just going
through the process it takes some time
but it's it's an all in one go kind of
thing so but I would recommend just
doing the process with the book even
just speaking with you right now easy
yeah just beyond you I see three
printers
[Laughter]
[Music]
