hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie my name is Jen and on Today
Show we have a special guest the
president is with us so stay tuned
alright welcome back to new everyday so
glad that you've tuned in and we have a
very special guest with us here this
week but I'm gonna let my buddy Dan
introduce and I did introduce to you my
friend Jared as the president you might
be thinking the president of what and
I've known Jared for a long time and
he's actually the president of the
Manitoba camping Association and we've
done shows before in the past regarding
why you should go to camp and the
importance of going to camp and and all
of that and so this past Sunday Jared
was at our church here in Ontario
speaking to our congregation about the
importance of going to cancel i thought
well while he's here we should get him
on the show on volunteer him yes yeah
and so Jared's welcome to the show thank
you it's good to be here thank you and
so can you tell us a little bit about
your background and how you got involved
in kent because currently you are well
the director of your church the all
administrators like you direct all in
all the pastors report to you is that
correct yeah okay so and then you are
also on the Christian camping Oh
Association and you grown up going to
camp and so you've done all these camp
things but how did you actually start
getting involved in camp well when I was
a kid my parents both worked a lot and
so in this summer we would go to my
grandparents for a week or two and then
the rest of the time we would be in a
variety of day camps or hockey camps or
sleepaway camps and so anywhere from
three to six or seven weeks of my summer
we spent a cap and so it was pretty
natural when I got to be a teenager that
I started working at camp and I just
never grew up out of camp and so I still
do can't many years later and so what's
what's the link between your work at the
church and the camp now what do you
actually do you haven't you well the
camera and the executive director of our
camp and so I oversee the entire
operation of camp and so
the big part is really trying to tie
what we do at camp back in with our
church ministries and so getting kids
involved in our youth programs we have
an outreach program called God zone
where we go bust kids it to our church
on Sunday afternoons and so my focus is
how do we follow up with kids and how do
we get those interactions happening
after camp has finished yeah so that's
what I focus my time on throughout the
winter months so then what I hear you
saying is that camp is not just about a
week like there's more that goes into
the whole idea of camp rather than just
your kids come for a week of camp of
adventure and whatnot there is more that
goes on there's more behind why we do
camp rather than just providing
babysitting so what would you say are
some of the main reasons why we do camp
or why camps happen well I mean
ultimately we do can't be because our
camp because we believe that a week can
change a life right if we didn't believe
that God gets show up and change your
life in a week we wouldn't do it and so
it gives us this opportunity where it's
an intense week together and we can see
lasting change in a person's life during
that week but ultimately it's still only
one week out of the year and so we refer
to it a lot as our camp family and so
it's about creating this community where
people can reach out to one another
based on this mutual experience because
it's pretty hard to talk with someone
you don't have anything in common with
and even though we come from very
different parts of the world and very
different maybe upbringing when we get
to camp we all have this common
experience and so you can always talk to
another camper or staff member about
that time and fill-in-the-blank about
what you did or the crazy thing that
happened at camp and it becomes this
mutual thing and so that when you're out
in the world and you have these
real-life problems you have this basis
of this friendship that you can then
build off of you you shared something
earlier with us jared about the value of
that camp family and how having an
established community of people that
you've built over the summer actually
translates into helping other people you
mentioned about a flood yeah so one of
our fan
their dad passed away a couple years ago
and this fall their house their basement
flooded and so we had really heavy rains
in Winnipeg and the power went out and
there some pit stopped working and so
there's a couple inches of water all in
their basement it had sucked up into the
drywall and so is really need to see we
had bunch of people from our church and
from the camp come together we moved all
the furniture out we ripped the carpet
out cut the drywall up to four feet took
it all out got it all back in you know
had it painted all within a week and so
we had all these people we counted it up
and in a week over two hundred and
twenty hours were given by people to
help this family and so it was pretty
neat to see how this community who
wouldn't know each other for other
reasons but camp come together and help
this family and their time of need now
you are ministering out of a heart to
help other people because of the effect
that your camp counselors had on you and
open their lives up to you so I want to
just I I guess want to go back in time
to some of those first moments that
you've had at camp and how your camp
counselors the people you met a can't
pour it into your life which is now
causing you to reach out in the way that
you are too like you said to this family
who are in need that were connected to
camp so what was your first experience
at camp I'll first experience a camp I
think the first one first memory that
really sticks out I never really had
been homesick and I've done all these
camps and I remember being homesick it
was a Wednesday night and got homesick
for some reason and my counter let me go
out in the hallway and he just talked
with me and you know let me read my
Bible I think which was the you know the
camp thing to do but I got to stay up
for a few minutes in a few minutes I was
fine but he just took that time just to
chat with me and all that and sent me
back in and I went to sleep but it was
just that the first thing like when you
grow up as a kid at camp like you
idolize
the staff members right they are the
coolest people in the world right so you
know if they were a hat backwards you
wore your hat backwards whatever it was
and let's be real they were teenagers
just being goofy and at camp but yet as
the kids they look up to them so much
and so pretty neat to see these staff
members care about you and so that
really made a difference in my life yeah
ok now what age did you start going to
camp I started with six years old yeah
we started our camp now at five yep yeah
overnight for three days they do a mini
camp for five to seven-year-olds and so
who have been through kindergarten and
they come for from wednesday to saturday
ok so now and i have been there it
really much is like you said those
moments where something's going on in
the campers life in the in the counselor
comes and just zooms in whether it's for
a moment sometimes all it is is a moment
and the kid is better right sometimes
it's an hour I remember talking with one
kid who just did not want to go in the
water and homesick I think was homesick
and that's why they didn't want to go to
in the water and we just you know you
spent 15 20 minutes with them and then
ok I'll go in the water but it's that
time thing now you shared with us though
this morning about how there were
several moments in your life where our
cabin leaders had poured into your life
not because they had to but because they
chose to yeah when I was a teenager my
parents split up and threw a bunch of
circumstances there I need a place to
live and it was actually my camp
counselor who had just been married for
a couple years they had a little six
month old baby him and his wife just
said we want to give you a place to live
and so with their help we live together
as a family and they were my family when
I finished high school and so
pretty neat that they cared enough to do
that and so yeah I spent about eight
months or so living with them before I
went to university and just pretty neat
to live with them and you know they had
a little baby and yet they still said no
come and be with us so yeah and just
because of that relationship that had
started at camp and it's so interesting
because I will still receive text
messages from guys that can't some of
our cabin leaders and pastor Chen what
do you think about this and pastor Jen
what do you think because of the
community and that's what you talked
about that community that is built at
camp and some of my very best and
closest friends were friends that I've
made at camp and Jared and I have been
friends now since 2002 and we have been
through a lot of life outside of camp
and it's you know as I look back and I
think wow it wasn't just a week of camp
it wasn't like you build the foundation
of the relationships but it was it was
life that happened outside the camp you
you came and you started working at the
the camp that was close to our church
just north of Kingston Ontario and then
he joined our youth team at our church
and then just friendship happened and
there was a bunch of us that would hang
out we'd go for wings every Tuesday
night oh yeah we a la wings I still eat
a lot of ways I feel I I like wigs and
good ministry happens over chicken wings
that's true that is true because and
this is a side note so this is a freebie
um that's a freebie uh we would go for
wings every Tuesday night and then we
would gather all the young adults around
and they would come with us and then we
started actually talking to our server
our waitress and she was lovely Maggie
Maggie and then we would bring her my
mom always bake pie my mom has a pie
ministry and we go and let me tell you
it is the best Pilar eat I
see such a pie and it is good and it is
good pie and so you know as a result of
my relationship with Jared at camp and
actually some other pastors that we had
met through the whole camping experience
there we are having wings and you know
chatting it up with Maggie and she had
was going through a tough time and she
sat down started talking to us and that
never would have taken place unless we
had poured into each other at camp yeah
and when my father passed away Jared was
there too like three o'clock in the
morning helping me make the memorial
video for my dad because I had never
done it was the morning no what's
interesting is I helped a lady in our
church this week put together a video
montage and I immediately went back to I
remember the night when I first learned
this my dad had passed away and you were
there to help teach me how to put it
together and it was just one of those
moments where I'm like that's that
relationship still has lasting you know
influence in my life and we can say well
you can make all sorts of relationships
but we have figured out that camp is
where you do intense relationships like
when you think at church you see each
other for what six hours a week maybe
seven so you put that into a damn camp
well by the time you're finished camp
you've spent three regular you know
weeks with one person in one day so by
the end of a week of camp you know 3
times 7 is 21 it's anything in that the
21 so you spent 21 days was a person
weeks out 21 weeks with a person in one
week right yeah I often find like
especially if you talk about
relationships at camp it's like a month
a week is like a month outside so like
if you're gonna date someone at camp
like in a seven week summer it's like
seven months of dating because you're
going to see the good the bad and the
ugly right because what you haven't
slept well because a camper kept you up
till three in the morning yeah
they're gonna see you the next morning
right like where when you date or when
you're friends with someone outside
especially for the as you're getting to
know someone you're always presenting
your best self and you're like this is
who I am or who I want to be well it
camp you can't hide behind that could
because it's just it's impossible you're
going to get the real you because
there's too many situations that occur
and so as people get to know the real
you it's it creates this much deeper
relationship than the superficial like
you think you go to church and do you
really get past the weather with people
barely right we're at camp you're
talking about major life issues on the
fly conversations happen and you don't
have time for that you don't get to
prepare your statement and you know the
politically correct opinion of the
masses it's just raw and real and so
relationships happen in a whole
different way than outside of that
community so question a question related
to that which we're going to come back
to just after this so hold tight Jeff
Weston Yemen you're building a brand new
beautiful website what
are you all right you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play I
don't know where r think you're supposed
to act okay I'm building a really cool
website are you building a really cool
website you need hosting one of the
things about a hosting account is you
don't want to have limitations put on
your website let's sure how much hard
drive space you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cat five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roots are your own
com guys to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
just don't put peddle the papers are
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're gonna find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV / dreamhost okay welcome
back we are we have Jarrad Clark joining
us from all the way from Winnipeg
Manitoba and we are talking about the
value of camp so Jared I don't want to
shift gears here we've talked about how
to create how camp creates a great
environment for establishing
relationships so how do you how does how
does the gospel play in here so how does
the camp environment create such a great
opportunity for you to share the gospel
with children well camps are based on
outdoor adventure most camps you're
going to encounter something that you
wouldn't in the city whether that's a
high ropes course or a climbing wall or
maybe for some kids it's being a canoe
or behind a boat and so when you're
trying new things and you have people
that you're doing this with it creates
this trust that occurs because when you
step out of your comfort zone and you're
challenged in whatever activity that is
it creates this trust
between the counselor in that camper and
so when you say to a camper you can
climb up this wall and you can trust
that I'm not going to let you fall I
have this rope and I'm going to make
sure that I take care of you and they go
up the wall and they come back down and
they're safe it creates this trust so
what I've said is then real and so then
as you begin to share the gospel with
them you've already established this
rapport and Trust with them so then
because they've seen you to be
trustworthy when you then share the
gospel with them it comes from a
trustworthy source yeah that makes sense
and I guess having the intensive time
together also helps to build that
relationship yeah I mean most times like
you think most camps either have a
chapel or can't fire some sort of time
during the day when they talk about God
but that's not normally when the impact
happens because kids need to digest
things they're thinking about things all
of the time and so you know the
conversations that I value at Camp are
the ones that happen you know on the top
of our aquaglide which is an 18 foot
inflatable slide when you've helped a
kid up there and I'm tired because I'm
old in there like whoa it's it's like I
need a breather so let's talk and then
they ask you this profound question and
you have an opportunity to speak open to
their life or when you're on the
sailboat and all of a sudden the wind
dies and you're like well this isn't a
great sailing experience so I guess we
should talk and you get these chances to
open up these conversations about things
that if you're doing a different
activity or if you're in another setting
that you would never do but because
you're in the middle of the lake fishing
or sailing or whatever it is you then
have an opportunity to speak and answer
questions and just talk about real stuff
yeah I'm just thinking of the number of
conversations that I have had with
campers and with cabin leaders and even
between us because of camp and there is
this space that is made for relation
ships at camp and so often we're busy
we're too busy for relationships and so
I'm learning more and more that camp is
a time that is set aside specifically
for relationships first of all for me
it's my relationship with Jesus Christ
and also for me to share my relationship
with Jesus Christ with other people but
also to build into people and it's so
important that we recognize the
importance of camp in building
relationships and I think you know yes
it is you know adventure based fun based
but for me the probably the most
important part about camp is those
relationships that you build that can
have a lasting impact both now but also
for eternity especially if we introduce
them to Jesus Christ right so yes so so
exciting I want to go to camp so if you
are hearing this and maybe you've never
gone to camp before even as an adult
there's opportunities sometimes to
volunteer I know Jarrod when you were
speaking to us earlier you said if you
are skilled in a trade maybe approach
your local Christian camp and say how
can I help yeah there's many
opportunities a lot of people think oh
I'm in my job now camp sort of passed me
by but you know trades nurses all these
things at camp are desperately trying to
find every year and for a lot of them
that they can do tax receipts or they
can you know do all these things that
make it beneficial for the person or
their business but also really
beneficial for the camp and so there's
always a need most camps were built in
the 50s 60s and 70s and so you have
these aging facilities that were often
built by volunteers with limited
resources and so they weren't always you
know well planned out and so there's
retrofits that need to happen or order
the camp is grown and so they need to
increase the size of their facility and
so camps and tend to not have huge
budgets and so when they get people that
come alongside them it just helps them
move forward much quick more but yeah
more quickly that's what I was looking
for
yes and then I guess they can then use
the resources that they've saved on
maintenance to pour into the kids lives
with free tuck with free tuck I'm a big
proponent of free tech a slushy can help
change a life Jesus won't change the
life but a slushy is a wonderful tool
Jared thanks so much for joining us on
the show and he's going to come back
next week we're going to continue our
conversation about the impact camp can
have on changing a child's life so Jen
do you want to just pray for us as we
close up yes I do Heavenly Father thank
you so much for Jared and for his family
and me the choices that they're making
to lead a camp for your honor and for
your glory so people can come to know
you and so father God I ask that as our
viewers are watching that your Holy
Spirit would stir up in them what is my
response to this how would I get
involved Lord how would it be for me to
be involved and so father we thank you
for this opportunity to think about camp
and how we are to be a part of it speak
to our hearts Holy Spirit we ask this in
your name amen omen thanks again for
tuning in and we will see you next week
see you next week later
you
