hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie my name is jen and on today's
show tell a lie and you'll cry or die
whoo stay tuned be right back
[Music]
welcome back to new every day so glad
that you've tuned in we are picking up
where we left off several weeks ago hey
Jen they're all your houses adventures
in between lots of adventures because we
actually went through Matthew 13 did
parable of the sower so we've taken a
break from the book of Acts for a really
long time and so we thought we would
just jump right back in with the story
of Ananias and Sapphira this is Acts
chapter 2 so if you want to follow along
with us 25 but you can follow along with
us carries going to read from the n-new
engines here we go but a certain man
named Ananias with Saphira his wife sold
a possession and he kept back part of
the proceeds his wife his wife also
being aware of it and brought a certain
part and laid it at the Apostles feet
but Peter said Ananias why has Satan
filled your heart to lie to the Holy
Spirit and keep back part of the price
of the land for yourself while it
remained was it not your own and after
it was sold was it not in your own
control why have you conceived this
thing in your heart have you have not
lied to men but to God then Ananias
hearing these words fell down and
breathed his last so great fear came
upon all those who heard these things
and the young men arose and wrapped him
up carried him out and buried him now
was about three hours later when his
wife came in not knowing what had
happened and Peter answered her tell me
whether you sold the land for so much
she said yes for so much then Peter said
to her how is it that you've agreed
together to test the Spirit of the Lord
look the feet of those who have buried
your husband are at the door and they
will carry you out then immediately she
fell down at his feet and breathed her
last and the young man came in and and
found her dead and carrying her out
buried her by her husband so great fear
came upon all the church and upon all
those who heard these things
da da dun dun dun so okay what I don't
know if you remember the first time you
read that what was your initial
impression reading that oh it's
interesting the first memory I have this
passage is from a camp that I attended
as a teenager and it was to be acted out
in a Drama and we were supposed to
figure it out like one of those like
like it's like she needs and so I story
yeah and so the one cabin group was
acting it out and I'm like what is this
I've never heard that story in Sunday
school before oh good kids gather round
and I'm yeah they were talking about
Ananias and Sapphira and I was like who
are they and I like have I just skipped
over that part of Acts all of these
years but it's not actually a part
that's talked about a whole lot like we
we talk about ah Jesus ascending and
Pentecost and all the people coming to
know Jesus through Peters preaching yeah
and then we hear about the the people
getting into jail the persecution is
hero but this little story is actually
sandwiched in here and it's likely what
is the story all about and it was
obviously important because it's in the
Bible right it made the cut yeah so
first so yeah so when I first read this
i was like oh i guess you shouldn't lie
oh yeah that's what you thought yeah if
you lie you will die hey don't lie yeah
but what did you think about it like
when was your first time that you heard
this story I honestly can't remember I
was probably 13 or 14 when I first read
acts because I just became a Christian
um but I remember thinking like is this
for real like as I dreaded question is
this for real
and did God smite them hmm and are they
in hell I these are lots of questions
but yeah so it it really catches you off
guard because it's the first for one
it's in verse 11 it's the first time
that the word church is mentioned in
acts right and it says that they all
became afraid and with good reason right
and Serena I think well you should be
afraid of a God who would just take
someone's life like that he's the author
of life and he can certainly take it
away but this was a specific
circumstance an identified behavior that
resulted in death from not natural
causes I know because it happened it
didn't just happen once so you couldn't
say it was a coincidence right cuz it
wasn't like oh dude had a heart attack
yeah okay you carry them out but then
the wife comes in it comes in and says
the exact same thing and like BAM she's
dead and so so we could ask the question
um I just want to let you know viewers
as we sit here we don't have all the
answers and half the time we just sort
of talk things out say what do you think
about this yes and so as you sit there
we want you to be thinking about this to
like what does that mean because the
thing is when people lie today they're
not sterling struck down dead no same
God that we serve the same church body
and God has the same authority now that
he did then but why aren't people
dropping like flies that's a really good
question why are they could tell you can
make a rhyme that's good thing what I
want yeah all joking aside it is this
serious matter right well yeah because
you're like how many how many times have
I lied in my life and yet I the LORD as
you can see I haven't been struck down
dead but what I guess the question we
need to ask is what does that do to our
relationship with God you know where
there where if we choose a lie and we
saw the results of lying yeah God is God
does not want us to lie no I obviously
takes it seriously takes it very
seriously I find it interesting that
verse 1 like we know what God the
behavior God wants from us right act
just the love mercy walk humbly with God
Mike Essex eat right do what is right do
what is good love other people give to
the Lord cheerfully for God loves a
cheerful Giver and he doesn't want us to
give out of compulsion and we'll talk
about giving a little bit later but I
find it really interesting that a
contrast is highlighted in verse 1 it
starts with the word but yes so then
when that happens whenever you see a but
or therefore you have a and or an end
you have to go back to the previous
passage which is Joseph the Levite from
Cyprus hooman Apostles called Barnabas
which means son of encouragement sold
the field he owned and brought the money
and put it at the Apostles feet now a
man named Ananias right so yeah so what
is the difference or what is going on
here that they would put but Aurra now
but before I get there I'm going to ask
you a question have you ever been caught
in a lie because that's what happened
here they were caught in a lie and what
were the repercussions so I've asked me
that question and I'm going to say we'll
be right back after these messages so
hold on Jeff Weston Yemen you're
building a brand new beautiful website
what are you all right you're terrible
actor what does we're acting comes into
play I don't know where I think you're
supposed to act okay Farrah I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website it's sure how much hard
drive space do you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cat five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roots are your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
just don't pop out of the papers are
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're gonna find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV / dreamhost welcome back
thank you again to all those
organizations and companies that have
partnered with the show and we
are able to do this show in partnership
with category 5 TV and Robbie Ferguson
our producer and editor and all of our
partners who make this possible go to
our website new everyday TV and check
out our partners page so Jen you left us
with a question have you ever been
caught in a lie yes you know what I know
that I have and the specifics of it are
usually the same it's usually the same
context when I've been gone to lie like
a social situation okay yeah like in
what kind of way I can't even think
specifically but this is an area that I
really struggle with I want to tell the
truth hmm but I want to make everything
work out okay in a circumstance for
everybody so whether it's like oh yeah
you know what I'm gonna I'll be there
I'll pick you up right and in my mind I
know I can't do that because I've
already committed to something else so
and they'll be like oh are you sure you
ok you're not busy that day no no I can
come I can totally do that meanwhile I
know that I can't and so then i'll try
and work out the double-booking and you
know not tell anybody not bring the
truth up and be honest that I can do
this and I can't do that I'll just try
and finagle away so that I don't look
like I've disappointed anybody right and
it ends up being bad every time but I
want to do what is helpful but the
motivation is I don't want that person
to think I'm a bad friend think I'm not
organized think that I can't deal with
whatever they're asking me to do so I
think part of it is maybe some pride
there that I don't want to look
differently in people's eyes but almost
every time that kind of stress comes in
my life and I recognize it it's from me
just not quite telling the
whole truth about a situation
withholding information and I totally
realized that yeah it's not good because
as you were talking it got me thinking
like we we will lie to make ourselves
look better or that were in control or
to protect ourselves to avoid punishment
or well I I'll share what happened this
summer that Jen was coming home on a
plane and I need i said i'll pick you up
and i had committed months before that I
would pick Jen up on August whatever but
then a friend asked if I would go
camping and I was like yeah go camping
that weekend then I'm back my mind I'm
like well maybe someone else could come
pick up Jan you know I'm going camping
and then Jen said oh are you still okay
to pick me up and I'm like yeah and then
a couple weeks later she's like yeah
you're picking me up right I'm like yeah
I was like you know supposed to go
camping someone had asked me if I would
go camping but I haven't quite responded
to them yet and I wanted to see if she
would be upset that maybe someone else
could pick her up at him but meanwhile I
had responded I was like yeah I want to
call him coming I totally lied and it
was not right it wasn't good it hurt you
it was not good for friendship and yeah
it was just stressful and it was wrong
what I wanted to like the best of both
worlds i wanted to keep my commitment
but i also wanted to go do what i want
camping and that's a hard right because
we and yes we're totally good because we
actually had a very good conversation
out of that and the times that i have
lied in my life has been so i can have
the best of both worlds oh yeah so i can
have the trust of somebody else i'm
telling the lie to write because we
still want their trust in their
friendship but we want what we thought
but we're not quite willing enough to
tell them that for right but that we've
made other plans or we would prefer
because we don't hurt their feelings
saying like anything
it's like telling your friends yeah that
dress looks great but what do you say
like well actually your butt looks
really big no I don't that I that's why
I'm not a very good friend to go
shopping with my codeine well do you
like that if you like it and you can
make it look good on you see and yet
we're not telex I would be like ah well
if if you like it cuz we don't want to
hurt the friendship right and yet we're
not being they asked us straight up does
it look good on me and we're like well
if you like it so we avoid telling the
truth to protect ourselves right and so
is that based in insecurity out of fear
of man because if I tell the truth I
think it does then and ultimately does
it come down to just gonna say like well
not believing God hmm jesus said like
the truth will set you free I'm the way
the truth and the life and if I'm
believing that he's going to do that
then my actions should follow that I
really believe him yeah and I mean I was
just reading before this like in John 8
where Jesus
Jesus is talking I believe he's talking
to the Pharisees mm-hmm yes yes and he
talks about his departure where he's
going to go oh here we go let's start at
verse chapter 8 verse 31 then jesus said
to those Jews who believed him if you
abide in my word you are my disciples
indeed and you shall know the truth and
the truth shall make you free they
answered him we are Abraham's
descendants and have never been in
bondage to anyone how can you say you'll
be made free jesus answered them most
assuredly I say to you whoever commits
sin is a slave of sin and a slave does
not abide in the house forever but a son
abides forever therefore the son makes
you free you shall be free indeed and
then goes on to talk about Abraham's
seed and they they say to Jesus okay so
Jesus says I know I know that you are
Abraham's descendants but if you seek
what you seek to kill me because my word
has no place in you I speak what I've
seen with my father and you do not and
you do what you have seen with your
father they answered and said to him
Abraham's our Father jesus said if you
were Abraham's children you would do the
works of Abraham and it he goes on to
say and verse 44 he says you are of your
father the devil and the desires of your
father you want to do he was a murderer
from the beginning and does not stand in
the truth because there's no truth in
him when he speaks a lie he speaks from
his own resources for he is a liar and
the father of it but because I tell the
truth you don't believe me so when we
are speaking a lie we're speaking the
words of Satan the enemy of God yeah and
so whenever you're tempted to tell the
lie the keyword did you hear tempted
which is God does not tend to
some were tempted to tell a lie which is
from the enemy it's from the enemy right
and so when your friend says you so like
what about this dress and we avoid the
truth or we tell the lie like whatever
then that's that's from the enemy yeah
and his he says he has come to steal
kill and destroy so when we tell a lie
we were actually destroying the
friendship we're destroying the
relationship right because relationships
have got to be built on trust and truth
and honesty and so when you tell lies it
just erodes the foundation and I think
that's why um when when people get
married and one of the hut like either
the husband or wife has an affair
there's so much lies and coverup and
deceit that the one the partner who was
wrong too often will say I can't trust
you oh but I've apologized and said I I
will never do that again but it's the
trust it's like that the trust bridge
has been burned I know and I so want for
our words to mean something that we
speak words of life and truth to people
and then so if I in turn play the
hypocrite and I'm saying something that
I don't really mean like Ananias and
Sapphira yeah they were bringing
something they were doing something that
they didn't really mean then one no one
can trust you and to like you're
speaking the words of Satan yeah and it
goes right back to the Ten Commandments
and one of the Ten Commandments is do
not lie yeah and it's like like thou
shalt not bear false witness so God
takes lying seriously because of the
damage that it can do and so but the
cool part is there's always forgiveness
like I know according to this passage it
seemed to be forgiveness and maybe
that's why we aren't struck down
immediately because of God's grace his
overwhelming grace that says
I love you do you realize what you've
done are you willing to repent and I'm
willing to forgive you like that's just
what God's grace does right and so and
that's open to all of us that when we
choose sake Oh God I lied I didn't tell
the whole truth or I wasn't completely
honest or I was deceitful would you
please forgive me and give me that my
mouth would be pleasing to you would
tell the truth and help me to tell the
truth as hard as it is because I want to
build up relationships because the thing
is you want I would rather someone say
man it's hard to be your friend cuzzies
you tell the truth rather than I don't
want to be your friend when wounds from
a friend can be trusted yes but an enemy
multiplies kisses yes you can't trust
them so as we close up things today we
want to encourage you to ask God to help
you have a an honest mouth and to say
dear Lord Jesus I know that it's hard to
tell the truth all the time but would
you help me would you help me to be
honest and when i'm tempted to lie would
you convict my heart through the power
of the holy spirit and help me to tell
the truth for your honor for your glory
so i can be at peace with you and peace
with others and at peace with myself hmm
and say this in the name of Jesus amen
well thank you so much for tuning in and
we really look forward to seeing you
back next week I genuinely want to talk
with you and to talk with each other
about this that seems so important than
this
confusing little passage in acts chapter
five but we're going to jump right back
in next week so we hope that you will
tune in so until next time have a
wonderful week and God loves you so much
yes he does hope thank you for thank you
grab
you
