hello here are the stories were covering
this week in the category 5 TV news room
your health tracker is poised to provide
your personal data to the highest bidder
Mario is available for iOS Yahoo was
hacked again big time years ago and it's
just coming out now lonely and live
alone a Japanese company is now selling
life like anime girlfriends the catch is
they're very tiny and they can't leave
their cage and at least two major
players in the space race claim that
they have working prototypes for a new
type of space engine that can get us to
Mars in just 10 weeks with no fuel these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere Jeff Weston Yama you're
building a brand new beautiful website
what are you alright you're terrible
actor what does we're acting comes into
play I don't know where I think you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website let's sure how much hard
drive space do you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cat five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the rules are your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
just don't fulfill the papers on just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're gonna find five
dollars and change per month go to cap
five dot TV / dreamhost
Sasha der Madison here are the top
stories for the week of December 21st
2016 if you use a Fitbit or Apple watch
you probably love the health insights
you get from your wearable you know how
much you move how well you sleep and
have likely started tracking patterns
and trends as soon as you have enough
time logged but you're not alone there
are tons of advertisers and big pharma
companies interested in your personal
health data and according to researchers
they can get it almost as easily as you
can an extensive report published by the
Center for Digital democracy and
American University tackles the
complicated issue of health wearables
and big data systems from every angle it
comes to a troubling conclusion there
are almost no privacy safeguards in
place for consumer health data and
multiple industries are are ready and
willing to mine the system for profit
according to the report there are
benefits of a connected health system
like personalized insurance policies and
improved emergency services wearable
maker Apple makers Apple and Fitbit have
even partnered with healthcare companies
in an effort to collect user data for
just that reason but the good of a
connected health system could be marred
by the potential for abuse by
unscrupulous data practices the report
warns many of these devices are already
being integrated into a growing big data
digital health and marketing ecosystem
which is focused on gathering and
monetizing personal health data in order
to influence consumer behavior you can
assume that the data your wearable
collects isn't just between you and your
app you that might not even bother you
for now but as the devices and the
connected health system it's evolved
more and more of your private life might
be up for grabs I love my Fitbit and I i
totally would love if my Fitbit could
somehow even call an emergency service
if something was wrong with say my heart
is right oh I can't get up right I like
that idea but I don't like the idea of
them like say opping my inch health
insurance will say
oh if I was moving that yeah like yeah
right right um but I also think that if
they were to be tracking say big groups
of people on coming up with some sort of
analysis on just the generalized health
they would have the wrong data set
because people who wear Fitbit are more
likely or not just Fitbit I just throw
that yeah what's your sign they're the
big ones yeah yeah they're more likely
to actually be active so it actually
gives a false positive i think my watch
sasha is steampunk yeah i have two lined
it i have to wind my watch it doesn't
even have a battery that's cool it
doesn't track me it what creeps me out
about this kind of tracking and the
ability for somebody to buy this type of
information is there's a fine line
advertising is very targeted these days
and that's fabulous on a site like ours
where if we do a show about quadcopters
you'll probably see advertisements about
quadcopters it makes sense because
that's what you're watching that's what
you're interested in if you're on
facebook and you're having a chat and
you've liked a couple of things that
have to do with kittens you'll probably
start seeing ads for cats mm-hmm just
because I figure Facebook is all about
cats yeah that's true mostly so what if
all of a sudden those ads start turning
to things like diabetic candy and things
that are very specific to an
individual's health well that's like I'm
very into my Fitbit so I even have the
scale my smart scale that emails me when
the battery's low so I way myself daily
which means that my daily weight
fluctuation right are actually
accessible so they might so a diet for
me I'm kind of up and down a little bit
and a little bit and so you know
especially at the holiday time now is
the advertising going to start to be now
it's not a problem for me but but for
someone who's wearing these devices are
they going to see these fluctuations and
say start advertising something like
that I don't know flex belt or something
like that or you know whatever are all
you're declined if you try to say apply
for some sort of insurance that's where
it starts to get very creepy okay I
don't like that i I don't I don't think
that's possible you don't think so no I
cuz then that doesn't become a part of
your health record though yeah but to
decline you based on the fact that you
are performing as well on this device
she is discriminatory as far as I'm
concerned it's no different than having
but it's your health record right but
it's no different than having say
insurance savings by getting that device
in your car that shows how your driving
is so if anything to use the Fitbit to
or whatever health tracking electronic
sorry Fitbit we keep saying your name so
but to to reduce your insurance I could
see that but to deny you or to increase
your premiums that's a big no-no because
the moment they do that you're going to
have somebody who's going to challenge
them in court saying but the person who
doesn't have that device right their
premiums didn't go up so why you
discriminating against me because I
bought this device and they'll win that
one in court very easily because if
that's the case people are just going to
turn around I'm not gonna buy becomes
compulsory yeah but I descent we why is
this a surprise it's not I don't think
it's it's not surprised it's more like a
creepy like so this is actually
happening no what's creepy I think is
that new story coming up about the
girlfriend in a cage well let's find out
let's find out more about that let's
move along James company Nintendo has
now rolled out with super mario run for
i run two iphones and ipads nintendo had
initially shun smartphones preferring to
focus on its own hardware however week
sales of its wii u console and a decline
in demand for the 3ds handheld cause the
firm to sustain large financial losses
putting it under pressure to change tack
the app marks the first time the firm
has created a smartphone game based on
its most famous character it follows the
successful release of Pokemon go earlier
in the year Nintendo owns a minority
stake in the pokemon company
the title was developed by a third party
super mario run takes a super mario
brothers format where the characters
prints from left to right collecting
coins jumping over obstacles and
squishing enemies and tweaked the
gameplay to make it easy to apply on a
one-handed touch screen for now the
title is restricted to Apple's iOS
platform but Nintendo has said it will
come to Android at some point in the
future Nintendo's domestic rival Sony is
also making an effort to create games
for iOS and Android based on its
PlayStation brands it revealed last week
that a new Parappa the rapper title and
an everybody's golf game are currently
being developed when I first read the
story I really thought because the
pokemons go was in the actual story
itself that it was going to be an
augmented reality game with Mario we're
like you actually like have to run and
jump and I liked it especially wearing a
fit that it would be great um it's not
that it's just a game when you phone
it's just a game it's Mario and people
are complaining that you have to pay 10
pounds for ya after a level 3 you have
to pay I think you can play for free it
to level 3 and then you pay like a chunk
of money so I wonder if maybe they
haven't done it right hmm as far as like
marketing and sales goes especially when
Pokemon go was available free to play
right but with Mario I mean they're
they're playing into the nostalgic
aspect of hey I would love to have this
for my kids because I played it growing
up on the NES but maybe they've done it
wrong but it does to me signify a
revolution in the company because of the
fact that they're they're actually
bringing their games to other platforms
which has always been a no-no for
Nintendo like you wouldn't see Mario on
Sega Genesis officially right right
let's see I'm interested to see how this
plays out with the new Nintendo unit
that the good and intent of switch I
think it's called oh yes where ya like
you just move it from a console to a you
know a handheld for the attics the guy
like you without their video game I'm
interested to see how this plays in and
will they have porting
of your app server into the game yeah
who knows I try and pull you may I it
again I would like to just welcome you
all into my brain imagine how much
better this would be if it was an
augmented reality game I'm picturing
like the 3d aspects of paper mario where
you're running like headlong in
first-person view and able to do some
you know the the pipe pops up and that
would be pretty neat as augmented
reality he's so cool I agree that would
be fun that would be worth my ten ten
dollars all right now something not so
cool yahoo has said data from more than
1 billion accounts may have been hacked
and this is separate from the hack they
revealed back in September should you be
worried and what can you do to protect
yourself in the future people might
suppose the breach is unlikely to affect
them because the attack happened three
years ago and there was no widely
reported abuse of the data in the
meantime however hackers might have
targeted users emails yahoo has said it
is also investigating a later separate
issue that might have made some accounts
accessible without passwords yahoo has
reassured its users we continuously
enhance our safeguards and systems that
detect and prevent unauthorized access
to user accounts some may not think of
themselves as yahoo users but the firm
has provided email services for several
ISPs as well such as BTW sky and rogers
it's also worth remembering that yahoo
acquired flickr in 2005 oh yahoo has
said though that accounts for tumblr
which it also owns would not have been
affected change your passwords but once
this password is changed it is also
recommended that you change all of your
passwords on all accounts that you use
and make sure that you use a different
one for each which i really need to do
yeah that's the thing i mean you don't
realize that you okay your password is
now out there from when you signed up
for flickr right because yahoo has been
hacked and so now if you also use that
for your email on hotmail or gmail or
where
and you use a free online banking or you
use it for anything else now all of a
sudden you are very uh at a very
dangerous spot but the fact that the
Yahoo did you say they also do rogers
yeah yeah they provide rogers is email
rogers is massive in canada yeah that's
it wow it's a really it's a big deal so
we have an episode with a password
recipe jet maker well that we discussed
hilary and i actually asha talked about
how to create password recipes to add
entropy to your password and there's a
really cool tool if you haven't seen it
already how I think it's how safe is my
password calm let's see let me just
confirm that before you actually type it
into your browser know how secure is my
password com howsecureismypassword calm
no that is not it come on is it gone how
secure let me find it for you folks
dotnet dotnet my mistake please make
sure you go to the right one how secure
is my password net so Sasha throw me
just like just make up a fake password
that that would be about the same
entropy of something that you would use
okay what about if i put category five
but the e was a 300k category five that
would take a single computer 42 minutes
to crack that password Oh none of my
passwords are safe yeah this just in
yeah that's a helpful tool to be able to
show you kind of house how safe your
password is oh I'm so sad yeah so with
with our password recipe episode we
learn to create really strong passwords
that are memorable to you but impossible
for someone else to figure out and the
interesting thing about password recipes
is that you can actually write it down
you can have it stuck as a sticky note
on your monitor and yet if someone were
to sit down at your computer and try to
hack into your account they wouldn't be
able to get in
because it's a recipe it's not the
actual password it's a recipe so it's
you've got to watch that episode I don't
wanna you know my real I will watch that
but I do have to tell you like the
quickest tiny story about how really
insecure my passwords really are is that
I wrote on a post-it note all of my
accounts and all of my passwords and had
it in my wallet the sticky note fell out
oh no oh oh and I like I luckily I found
it on the ground but I literally had
everything there okay all right next
time this one is really creepy this is
totally creepy the future is apparently
here and it's creepier than we ever
imagined a Japanese company called VIN
clue is now taking pre-orders from Japan
and the United States for a new
interactive artificial intelligence
driven home automation system or as the
promos make it appear a virtual
girlfriend for a lonely business called
gate box the new Internet of Things
product takes Amazon's Alexa Google home
Spike Jonze is film her and the
holographic anime characters of Vocaloid
concerts to their unified and natural
conclusion while it may appear gate box
is a cage for a subservient little anime
princess part of the devices back story
is that gate box is in fact a gateway to
the dimension that the character lives
in gay box priced at about two thousand
seven hundred dollars us is targeted at
lone young lonely guys and anime
obsessed nerds promising the experience
of living with your favorite character
while in reality living with no one it's
roughly the size of a home coffee maker
and its main feature is a clear
projection tube that displays a
computer-animated avatar for the ai's
character then clue is planning multiple
possible personalities for gabe box gate
boxes website proclaims she will always
do all she can for the owner just for
the owner voiced by Japanese actress
Yuka hi I'm you sooo the character has
her
website with a back story that explains
how she was invited to cross dimensions
for a homestay with a master on earth
this is just a sad and this is a sad
story really technology is amazing they
can do this now don't and this is what
they do the one thing that I like about
this though is it I mean it's an
integrated like home situation right so
this sure this automated home automation
this girl will call her she knows she
knows that you're on your way home she
could possibly turn on the lights or
start a pot of coffee or you know if she
was connected with your kitchen start
cooking your meal you know if you
haven't seen it yet you should get on to
just whatever search engine but probably
google because they own YouTube and do a
search for gate box and just click on
one of the videos and see the commercial
and you'll see what I'm saying when I
say this is really creepy way to do
things because this thing right will
actually text to its real world
boyfriend and say oh honey are you
coming home soon there must be no there
must be a level of interaction right you
must be able to turn it up or turn it
down hey I oh do you think so you think
you can actually like let's let's not be
a creepy subservient little thing yeah
well but here's the benefit to it i'm
gonna bright side this up there are
people out there who are very lonely who
just really need the interaction through
the day and here it is I mean it's not
real sure but but AI has come a long way
and and you know that's scary in and of
itself in some ways because it leads to
other things but yeah I can see that
aspect of it but where wear crosses over
from AI into reality in that you know
like the whole text messaging thing
because like I met what I met my what I
can't speak but I met my wife on icq
right and so up until we met in person
we had never looked into each other's
eyes we'd never seen each other and yet
we were in love so isn't it a dangerous
thing to think that someone
could fall in love with an apparition
but it's already happening sure like
what this takes it to a whole new level
of creepy absolutely it does and I this
on so many levels is just wrong but just
just a little bit right in the way that
I don't have to be alone any longer look
that this isn't like a dark this isn't a
Tony Stark Jarvis situation like it's
not the same as having a computer voice
around your house it's like a what's
going on I did this today like it
there's a visual aspect to it which okay
in turn create an emotional connection
i'm giving you the fact that the actual
visual thing i'm not like loving the
actual character yeah okay she looks so
maybe she could be like Patrick
Stewart's head yeah can you say okay you
something are you soon if you threw in
like a virtual Patrick Stewart head
people would go oh this is okay it's a
Star Trek toy now yeah exactly but
because it's a unspecified character
full body can actually know these can
actually be characters from anime you
get to pick it that you are already
reading there right megacon raisins but
there's still there's I make it like
from the comic books like Archie comics
could you have like you choose like like
that e'er forget already I did I just
there's the you know that feeling you
get you just go I got that feeling
there's SE and he did it's the uncanny
valley i think it's the technical yes I
true I have no clue what you call it but
I mean so from it Camus the tax side of
it in the creepy side of it I think
there's also the fact that this is a
social side of it when you consider
where it's being developed from you've
got a country like China that's just
ripe and i know but does that I
understand it's coming from Japan but
like you if you take a country like
China were you struggling with that
gender balance okay because of the years
and years of the one-child rule
so you've got I mean this box is a whole
nother realm of people finding
companionship when there's no actual
companion there this is internet I think
that's Phil need that can't be filled
otherwise if there's no other companions
there at the only time I would say that
this is actually a problem is if
somebody were to be turning down real
human interaction because they are don't
you think think they wanna get home
today like if you look at the commercial
and she says why don't you leave work
early tonight that one's that why don't
you leave work early tonight honey come
home to me she says but from a
psychological standpoint this is already
happening there are people who are
already shirking off physical human
connection for computer connection if
people are starting to identify it as a
type of sexuality this just plays into
that right I just I don't want anybody
to ever be alone yeah there's a dog
that's my thinking but what do you what
do you folks think like comment below
let us know what you think about gate
box and go watch the commercial because
it is it's very interesting technology
it's very very smart very intelligent
cool technology very concept and I think
it has it could have really really good
uses but i think our concerns could be
justified sash is like no yeah for
people who don't actually want to have
their own kids but they want to like a
baby they could make like a baby gate
box we're just like wake top at 3am just
screaming uncontrollably until you love
it back what goes through your mind see
III do have to give kudos to agra moto
in and the chat room right now it who
brought up a good point about somebody
who may be autistic where maybe you
can't socially interact with people as
an educational tool and as a social yeah
sure so I mean for at makes me think of
it I can see there's benefits to it yeah
but I don't know I just I look at the
photo you got up on the screen the guys
are in a su
discretion the wrong image for it they
picked the wrong commercial it means a
tight miniskirt it's the wrong character
for the anime and they get the wrong
character for the business man because I
don't necessarily think that's exactly
how we go I think that makes what would
be somebody who might have a little bit
more of a social anxiety situation that
really just wants the connection so
there can be some benefits here
certainly ok now I'm going to throw a
whole new spin on it but I do realize
that time is going on but we just had
this topic about the Fitbit and sport
watches yes tracking all your kind of
stuff imagine now marketing from this
standpoint yeah she would be like hey
you're getting my ass yeah well say your
your your gate box individual is part of
the Internet of Things and suddenly you
know you're carrying on this
conversation about you know how was your
day oh it was great I dealt with this
this this at work and all sudden you
your box is collecting data for
corporate espionage or you know because
these conversations also no turns around
goes well you know I heard of this
product you should try this like so
smart this is the making of a movie
acting I yeah that's true i was thinking
more like you get up in the middle of
the night you try to get a snack in your
fridge is locked what's that wasn't
there already movie I don't know but
Sasha made a funny comment before the
show that you bring home a real-life
girlfriend and this thing detects it
sell herself honey what are you doing
who is this and starts doing things like
wiping her phone and installing Trojans
and slightly it's a crazy stuff play
that would be a bad dating version very
eagle eye yeah that'd be an interesting
movie you're like we could do one on
this new story alone oh my goodness
however here's another great one you got
another one yes the M drive propulsion
system seems to cherry pick from the
laws of physics and science fiction to
produce an engine capable of getting
humans to the moon in 10 days or to Mars
in 10 weeks without any fuel
wait paper from NASA was posted online
last month suggests that not only have
researchers at Johnson Space Center in
Houston been tinkering around with the
idea which a lot of people knew but they
have one that actually works and now
China has announced that it too has
created a working prototype it's one of
the previously closely guarded
experiments being conducted on the
Chinese space lab recently put into
orbit at a press conference in Beijing
yesterday researchers with de china
academy of space technology or cast said
the government had been funding the
research for about six years and all of
that the nasa results do is confirm what
they have already achieved cast also
also plans to put their impossible
reactionless engines to work power and
satellites as soon as possible the m
drive engine defies Newton's third law
of motion for every action there is an
equal and opposite reaction jet engines
burn fuel to power turbines to second
the air and blast it out backwards to
produce forward thrust the M drive
however ejects no opposite directed mass
or particles to produce forward thrust
instead it bounces microwaves around
inside a cone shaped metal chamber which
because of the shape produces thrust at
the wider end the concept is for the
unit to convert sunlight in the sunlight
in space into the needed microwaves and
making a self-sustaining power plant
that never needs a refill Lee Fang chief
designer at the china academy of space
technologies communication satellite
division said the technology being
tested in orbit right now is in the
latter stages of the proof of principle
phase with the goal of making it
available in satellites as quickly as
possible i love this idea for technology
for even us on earth although as you
they probably couldn't do it in a car
but you could only
you could probably make something like
this happen k you're like power plants
Sasha yeah gets us to Mars in 10 weeks
okay we imagine putting this yeah I did
be fast fast it currently takes like 40
three weeks somewhere along there so
yeah I don't think you want to put it in
your car but i love it i love the
innovation but i mean if they made a
smaller version of it like you know
something that's the size of saying
coffee cup in your car you know right i
suddenly how big was the one that they
made it's not that big although it is a
prototype it's not like up in space
flying to Mars right now correct still
it's very cool I'm interested to find
out where this goes this is a technology
that Mars I mean 10 weeks yeah yeah
it'll be there like where are we there
yeah I love it very cool you know the
cool thing about this is if they could
do Mars in 10 weeks I can totally see
this as a hey we can get you to the moon
in three hours well they said what 10
hours 10 hours a totally 10 days or 10
hours i think is 10 days 10 days 10 days
yeah no no you're the news or there's
only three three days as it is the moon
to get to the moon it'll read a flight I
would expect it would take like 30 days
when that the moon oh no it wouldn't the
now we're gonna have to google that the
moon is like a three-day flight so what
is it with this just not what Apollo 13
taught us that was a movie that wasn't
even real life three days to the moon
says everybody we did didn't you say ten
days maybe I'm just seems 10 weeks to
mars three days to the moon but imagine
I mean we're but so is a 10 hours must
be the strong i know i read this bike
and dry ago but i forget over an immune
mdrive mood everything you need to know
about the m dr thruster that's cool
could potentially make it to the moon in
just a few dot dot dot
I know tech literally says that a
reaction lyst drive could potentially
make it to the moon in just a few dot
dot dot thank you google Oh for that
you're the moon in for I'm seeing for
four hours I'm assuming hours yep four
hours but still could you bad you that
like wow I don't feel like go to work
today I'm gonna go to the moon let's go
to moon like hey kids you know we're
going alone it certainly makes you know
if they can call it eyes a fan tab I
don't think we should move humans to
other planets only because we're really
bad at this one yeah like uni r1 prime
nature explorers though yeah we need to
go and explore that's why video games
are so popular we love to go into Worlds
that do not exist in reality we love to
see what are the odds that you can't get
a living animal until you can keep a
plant alive for a certain amount of time
but you shouldn't have a baby unless you
can keep like you know a house plant or
a patent alive yeah we start with a
house plant then you can have a baby
right yeah exactly this is how i feel
about Earth and then colonizing other
planets yeah baby focus on seeing if you
can make this one work but we may play
just exponential growth of human
population you're not going to have much
of a choice it's a tough call to because
you can't you can't generalize entire
civilizations cannot be generalized by
the the what some people do yeah right
well if you look at vs ole don't worry
there won't be exploding populations if
everybody gets one of these and new
girlfriends yeah and there you go
Wow ovulation growth solved thanks for
watching the category 5 TV news room
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website for the
category 5 TV news room I'm Sasha
tomatoes
[Music]
