oh look at you
neat now oh now we can really see the
color difference between your camera and
my camera look at that wait so what do I
look like on your camera do I look more
tanned here we go I do what are you
doing here my camera is kind of likes
stretched out see right I'm my normal
weight on your camera I'm a little obese
on my camera so that's that's a nice
thing this is what I really look like
folks so it's gonna hang out over here
yeah this is the fat counter I went to
the gym twice already
oh yeah and I literally I like I cannot
walk I am done I did jump squats jump
squats are I'm guessing it's like a jump
squat you're like the gym so can you
land in a squat it's actual yeah the
worst thing that sounds like something
only spider-man should do and only the
power of your thighs keeps you from
tumbling to the floor Wow I had a
powerful thighs you're right oh I do not
