hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie and my name is Jen and on
today's show we're going to talk about
how the messenger brings meaning to the
message
you
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / linda
okay welcome back to another episode of
new everyday we're so glad that you've
tuned in again we are really looking
forward to talking about the book of
Revelation this week we've talked about
the Book of Jonah we've talked about
missions we talked about all sorts of
things since we've started the show when
it's been really wonderful to actually
just talk about God and talk about our
lives and what's going on what we're
reading each week so we're looking
forward to getting this started with you
so Jen yes Gary revelation they learn
from Jonah to Revelation yes and one of
the reasons why we're diving into
revelation is this past week I decided
that I needed to sit down and actually
read the book of Revelation from cover
or from chapter one right through the
chat to chapter 22 to really understand
get a better understanding of what is
God saying through this book because I'm
totally honest when I think revelation
I'm like oh duh scary I think it's
overwhelming yeah because there's a lot
of symbols there's a lot of different
pictures it's talking about like the
throne room of God we know it's an
important book it's at the end of the
Bible it's like the finale when it talks
about Jesus coming back and it can be
overwhelming a little bit daunting to
read especially if you don't know what
these symbols mean so it doesn't
necessarily read like a story like some
of the books of the Old Testament or
like the Gospels where you're following
the life of Christ it it's it can be
really hard to follow in it and I've
always had a little bit of trepidation
reading it yeah well I've heard from a
couple different pastures that they have
no problem preaching on the first like
four chapters and why is that because
it's very clear they are letters to the
churches very clear like they their
sermons they're like mini sermons so
they could do a seven week series on
letters to the churches of Revelation
right and it's right there like to lay
out a CN to Philadelphia and
the various churches and so it makes it
easy right because there's no real
symbols there's no numbers it's very
clear like this is what I like this is
what I don't like so it's very easy to
preach it's when you get in pass well
let's just see once you get past I think
chapter 4 where John has his revelation
of heaven and then you start getting
into the seals and the trumpets and the
bulls and you're like what is that and
to be totally honest as soon as it
starts getting into that imagery and
those symbols I would be like uh I don't
know what to do I don't because I didn't
see it as one connecting story and like
I just felt like because I didn't
understand it because I think because of
the fear that goes along with it so
often when we come to the Bible if we
have heard certain things about certain
passengers become with that mindset
right so we we're not actually reading
on the scripture as if from our
perception we are reading it from all
the different perceptions that have gone
into that we've picked up over the years
like there's been so much talk on
Revelation there was the left behind
Siri night and then there's so much
debate on our reap retread our repost
trip are we a millennial who is the
Beast what is the lady or who was the
lady and as all of these I know and we
get I get that look on my face when I
read it I can actually feel stupid and I
think that's part of the problem I'm
like why would I read something that
makes me feel stupid and the other thing
is we know that it's the Word of God we
know that it's it's wholly it's there
for a reason so I think it there's some
fear surrounding when you start making
speculations about what these things are
you know how how can we do that if it's
not clear-cut and how do you really
interpret it and I know there are some
excellent scholars who have done some
commentaries on the book and there's
also some scholars who are well known
who have not done commentaries and maybe
you can speak to that permit
like Martin Luther who started the
Protestant Reformation does not have a
commentary he actually um in his mind he
didn't get James because James has a lot
to do the book of James has a lot to do
on works and for Martin Luther it was
faith is not based on works it's based
on the grace of God we are saved by
grace it is a free gift where when he
read through James he very much felt
like it was all about works hmm so so he
had the book of James and the book of
Revelation Martin Luther was like they
didn't touch them he didn't really touch
them and so Martin Luther notice how you
didn't read them no didn't make a
cometary to not make a commentary so did
not make a commentary on Revelation and
then John Calvin also did not make a
commentary on Revelation so I felt like
I was in good company no and then John
Wesley who was actually influenced by
both men he wrote his commentary but
with the idea of that I don't there are
so many mysteries in it that he's like I
hope what I've said can help but he
wasn't saying this is it like I have the
corner on Revelation and I think that's
also that what we can get caught off on
is to make a bold statement say well
this has to be this yes and yet there
was you know as I read it and there's so
many different interpretations that's
why when I sat down to read it I was
like Lord what is it that you want me to
understand about this book I don't want
to be afraid of it because I don't think
I don't think we should be afraid of
reading the Word of God like there's
something I don't think that was God's
intent God's intent is to draw us into
relationship and that's why the Bible
was written actually to reveal who God
is and how much he loves us and desires
to have a relationship with us so it
doesn't make sense to have a book that
is out repulse people now we were
talking to we went out for breakfast
this morning ah with our producer Robbie
Ferguson who does all the wonderful
video editing for us
and I said to the gentleman who was
waiting on us cuz he said well what
church do you go to and we told him and
he said oh I grew up Catholic and I said
oh well what do you remember about
growing up in the Catholic Church
because I know it's a good question to
ask and it was a big part of his
childhood it sounded like it yeah and
the first thing he said was wool pants
that were itchy and hot I was like okay
yes and he said and the father spoke on
Revelation every week and I was like oh
I'm sure as a wee boy that every
challenging yeah yeah but that was his
memory yeah the father spoke on
Revelation every and we had not taught
saying oh we're going to talk about
revelation on our show today but he
brought that up and it also said you
know that the the sermon was part of it
was in Latin so it was harder to
understand but sometimes when you're
reading something like this it can feel
like another language yeah but I found
with the word of God even passages that
I had difficulty understanding like even
in Jeremiah or the Old Testament that
throughout the week or throughout the
month or whatever after reading it
things would come up during the week
mm-hmm that I feel like it was the Holy
Spirit explaining things whether it was
from another verse in the Bible or a
conversation with someone or someone
will point me to a resource hmm and it
just opens your mind yeah when Jesus was
talking to his disciples and I think it
was after he was resurrected um he it
says that he opened their mind yeah to
understand the words he was saying yes
and you know I think we can pray that
God would do that for us that he would
open our minds and help us to actually
understand the words and put them into
practice in her life because there's
practical application even from the book
of Revelation on how to put our trust in
God yes and believe him I agree we is
one of the things we want to encourage
you to do is actually sit down and read
the book of Revelation and pray
god help me not understand what you want
me to understand from this would you
protect me from all fear because
sometimes when we talk about the future
there's so much fear about the future
that's one thing that revelation is is
this book is specifically it we say it
is the revelation of John but actually
John is just the script like the scribe
yeah and it's Jesus it's Jesus's words
to John and he specifically says in
Revelation 1 and I'm reading from new
century version it says this is the
revelation of Jesus Christ mm-hmm which
God gave to him to show his servants
what must soon happen and Jesus sent his
angel to show it to his servant John who
was told everything he has seen it is
the word of God it is the message from
Jesus Christ blessed is the one who
reads the words of God's message and
blessed are the people who hear this
message and do what is written in it but
time is near when all of this will
happen and for some reason even though
I've probably read that passage 20 times
I went this isn't John's Revelation
Jesus it's like Jesus is telling his
people something which is very
interesting because every single other
book in the New Testament is like the
Gospels are all Oh Matthew saw this
happen and he wrote down the words of
Jesus but it wasn't ready just saying
write this down right the same thing
with Mark and Luke and John it's like
this is actually saying this is the
revelation of Jesus Christ to give that
was given to John described down in
order that people would know what was
happening which is so true to Jesus's
character like all the way throughout
Scripture well I feel like the Bible is
the revelation of God like God revealing
himself to man for the purpose of having
a relationship with us but all the way
through he says what's going to
mm-hmm like all the way out like that's
what the prophets are all about like
they're saying you are sinning this is
going to happen if you continue to sin
here's a heads up here's a heads up and
so what's interesting is that part where
it says the first three blessed is the
one who reads the words of God and our
God's message and blessed are the people
who hear this message and do what is
right enough like Jesus wants us to read
this message and do it so we are blessed
mm-hmm not so we're scared or put off or
confused yeah so if all that stuff is
coming in that's not God right the
confusion not of God the fear not of God
like that is the enemy coming in trying
to make us afraid or confuse and
actually say well why was not funny so
are you saying that this says will be
blessed by reading it yeah and I was
which was so cool like I've never gone
into this book yeah saying god bless me
as I read it um I'd always wow I like to
finish things so when I drink through
the bottom where's your checklist a
checklist I on my checklist it's find my
other checklist my name is necklace yeah
that's good anyways because revelation
is the last book of the Bible yeah well
I can't say that I finished the Bible
which I've read through revelation also
you want to finish it so I had to finish
revelation so I could start again in
Genesis and I love the book of Genesis
consalvo God creating things and and
then you know I get into the Old
Testament I love the old testament just
reading the stories and so in order to
get back around to the Old Testament
kind of finish it I gotta finish
revelation because that would just be
weird I can't finish off and Judy even
though it finishes well that's right it
does but so here I am just getting
through revelation all those years and
that was that was the first time
that I had actually read it through to
say God what are you saying to me really
yeah and it just reminded me once again
that god is so faithful and His mercies
are new every day and even though i had
read the word so many times God in his
graciousness waited how many years I've
been reading this book to reveal to me
what I needed what he wanted me to know
from this book that really is not scary
that I can take great that I can be
blessed by reading this book hmm and I
have taken such comfort actually because
as I read it as writing down notes like
I have page after page after page after
notes and I was actually like wow
surprised surprised that I was so
blessed me that I was so encouraged that
I wasn't I wasn't afraid which was
because so often like I've read through
it and you get to the stuff about the
beast and the the dragon and the false
prophet and the horns and oh like I
don't know what to do with this and also
often we don't know what to do with
something we just leave it we just leave
it yep avoid it so I was like I don't
want to read it but I feel like I was so
so glad and it just reminded me that god
is so faithful and he finishes what he
starts and he finishes what he starts
and so yeah he actually starts out with
Jesus speaking to the church okay speaks
to seven churches so seven different
churches seven different churches okay
and what's interesting about the number
seven is that it means complete so
whenever you see the number seven in the
Bible it usually is a reference to a
completeness hmm so and I and I known
that before now here's our commercial
for what's in the Bible with
Denver written by Phil Vischer and
others which you can check out if you
just follow the web link through our our
website on new everyday TV Phil Vischer
has put together basically a kid's
commentary on the Bible using puppets
and songs and and just his way of
telling a story it's excellent it I
learned something every time I watched
it so goes through the whole Bible and
you watch different sections of it but
yeah it's really worth checking out
especially if you've got young kids but
even like I was learning from it so it
was excellent oh I learned more from
watching what's in the Bible with Phil
Vischer why should say more than what I
learned in seminary but I found that it
building the gaps sure that may be where
I was talking to the friend beside me in
class I understand Oh happened faster
anyways so in it he actually talks about
the numbers and symbols and he talked
about the number seven and even though I
knew what it meant I never really
applied it to Revelation to Revelation
there you go and so I just found it so
fascinating that office and I felt like
I was given a new tool and that's why
it's so important when you read the
Bible read it but also seek out godly
counsel and advice and commentaries
that's a good man that to help bring
clarity the things you don't understand
and that's why it's also important that
you don't just read from one particular
denomination that you read from our
mindset or our air or author yeah but
you read from a variety of a variety of
different authors and people and
mindsets because if they're all saying
the same thing and you're like I can
trust it and so often we get on because
somebody's mindset is the same we feel
an affinity right so we tend to be I'm
steered in that direction with our ears
want to hear yes what they already think
is to be yes so it's really quite
challenging yeah one of my favorite
quotes is a sure barrier to the truth is
the assumption that you already have it
it's easy to put those glasses on when
you're reading the Bible yeah
and so especially when reading
revelation it is so important to have a
variety of different authors
commentaries that have a different
mindset so you can actually see through
a different frame of reference and go oh
well maybe maybe there's some truth in
that and asking the Lord actually to
pull it out and to tease it out I guess
is the word of putting together what he
wants us to know right and so when when
Phil Vischer on the video is talking
about seven in the seven churches he
makes the statement of well what a seven
mean means complete so if he's talking
Jesus is talking to the seven churches
then maybe he's talking to the whole
church like the body the body of Christ
and these are seven things that he sees
in his church that would the image that
I have is to cause it to limp or to hold
it back and so it with that mindset I
was like oh so you can apply what Jesus
is telling these churches in these
letters to your own life in your own
church yes like to the church in Ephesus
he says you work hard but you've lost
your first love I was like oh Lord I
work hard and you work hard I don't want
to lose I don't want to lose sight of
who Jesus is mm-hmm how much he loves us
and so it's like okay lord help me to
bring balance what is the boughs between
work and devotion to you and it's like
the story of Mary and Martha which we've
talked about before and Martha is busy
and Mary sitting at the feet of Jesus
and Martha's like get her moving like
this you know there's stuff to do and
Jesus is like she has chosen when
asbestos
best and so that balance between working
hard and loving Jesus and then to the
church in Smyrna it says they are rich
in spirit and to continue to be strong
and suffering so they were going through
some kind of trial so that maybe towards
the persecuted Church mm-hmm and I found
that interesting because it Jesus is not
saying that his church will not suffer
and so often people can come in to
church with the mindset of while a real
Christian doesn't suffer if you're a
real follower of Christ you don't suffer
and that's not what this is saying it
says you know they're actually rich in
spirit but they still suffer and so
often we can think that suffering is a
result of sin which it can be but not
always and so I found that that letter
um encouraging encouraging and relieving
yeah I get just like okay like we are
gonna suffer that does not mean that
we've done something wrong right in fact
the Apostles found it when they were
soft when they suffered for the gospel
yeah they actually were like yeah they
went home and were we're like it this is
real yeah this is real as people don't
like it and Jesus said people wouldn't
like it yeah you know Jenna just want to
kind of take a step back here in the
beginning of the book um John is he's
he's writing down what Jesus is telling
and first in its in Revelation 1 verse 4
and it says John to the seven churches
which are in Asia and it says grace to
you and peace from him who is and who
was and who is to come and from the
seven spirits who are before his throne
and from Jesus Christ the faithful
witness the firstborn from the dead and
the ruler over the kings of the earth to
him who loved us and washed us from our
sins in his own blood and has made us
kings and priests to his God and father
to him be glory and Dominion for ever
and ever behold he is
coming with clouds and every eye will
see him even they who pierced him and
all the tribes of the earth will mourn
because of him even so amen I am the
Alpha and the Omega this is Jesus
speaking the beginning in the end says
the Lord who is and who was and who is
to come and then it goes on to talk
about the vision of the Son of Man Jesus
he says I'm the Alpha the Omega the
first and the last and what you see
right in a book and send it to the seven
churches who are in Asia and I just
think it's really um important that it
sets up who is the messenger so so John
is writing it down but the message is
coming from Jesus and it establishes who
the source of the information is and
when we spoke this morning to the the
waiter who was serving us at breakfast
he was also saying that he had a bad
experience in one church because the the
leader of the church actually was
leading a terrible life hated children
was hitting the children it was you know
I guess sleeping with a bunch of
different women anyway it really put a
bad taste in his mouth even though this
minister was sharing the Word of God
which is true and good it was coming
from a bad source yes the source are
sorry the messenger tainted the message
and I just think here in Revelation it's
Jesus is it talks about his name's the
faithful witness the firstborn from the
dead the first and the last it's
establishing his credibility all through
the Old Testament the New Testament
through the Gospels were seeing God's
character we're seeing who Jesus is and
now is the finale where he is sharing
this revelation and I just take a lot of
comfort in that well because then he
speaks to Ephesus and Smyrna and per
genome and fired tira and Sardis and
Laodicea in Philadelphia the message has
credibility because it's coming from the
Alpha and the Omega it's coming from the
Christ it's coming from the one who they
pierced
that it said it's coming from the one
that one day everybody will see right so
it has credibility that has truth and
when you hear credibility from a credit
when you hit here a message from a
credible source it has that much more
depth because you're right people can
hear the truth but if it's not coming
from a good source and they're like yeah
like you say that I don't think you
actually walk it out so that if if you
don't walk it out why should I exactly
and so you're right and backing up and
saying no let's look at who the
messenger was like who is the message
coming from the messages coming from
Jesus Christ like yeah and John's just
writing it down and John's just writing
it down now when he says you know you've
lost your first love refocus on me you
will be something you know there will be
suffering or beware of false teachers is
what she says to program them and its
entirety Rhea thigh Tyra Tyra and I'm
pretty good over there is the actual
taught tolerate Jezebel like and she was
a wicked queen in the Old Testament who
controlled and manipulated and used it
used her sexuality to get things and
he's like you tolerate her like you need
to get rid of her but who is that coming
from it's not coming from just some Joe
Schmoe down the road it's coming from
Jesus who sees everything right and so
for the thing is he's not he's telling
this to the churches so they can be
ready for when he comes back he goes on
to Sardis and says they say they're
alive but they are dead so strengthen
what you have left before it dies
completely and I think there's hope
there yeah there's a reason why you
sending the message and that's something
that we're going to touch on in the next
episode we're going to talk a little bit
further on this but we really encourage
you just to read it yeah just go ahead
and read it ask God to show you what he
means and maybe just a good reference
for you to check out would be koinonia
house or k house dot org and it's the
work of chuck Missler who's a Bible
scholar and I've really found that his
commentaries sometimes it's a little bit
deep but usually they're quite good and
when I first became a Christian and my
family first became Christians we
listened to a lot of his podcasts and
his teaching on the Bible it really
helped give us a foundation so that
might be something for you to check out
k house org they have I got a podcast
6640 they might want to listen to so go
to our website new everyday TV and you
can follow the link there to get to some
of his resources yeah and so as we close
and as you you know contemplate reading
revelation as you read through those
letters they're there to encourage you
mm-hmm there from there from Jesus
Christ through John the seven letters
are like a complete picture of what is
going right but also what is going not
so right for the purpose of drawing us
back to Jesus and that's what I love
about those chapters it's like here's
what the issue is and Jesus isn't like
bye-bye he's like no recognize what the
issue is and then let's fix it let's fix
it yeah so yay there's good news there's
newly coming oh we're going to talk
about it on our next show so want to
thank you to our partners family
christian store you can purchase
Christian materials books music you can
go to our website univer day TV and
follow the link there thank you also to
our partners eco alkalines are the
batteries that power our audio-visual
equipment and thank you also to category
5 TV for hosting and we sure hope that
you'll tune in same time same place next
week new everyday top TV so thanks for
coming out see you next week be
encouraged and paste a few things
I
