you know the stories were covering this
week in the category-five TV newsroom
the problems with the windows 10 October
2018 update just keep on rolling in as
users are now complaining a faulty zip
file extractions broken fonts and if he
brightness controls Linux founder Linus
Torvalds has returned from a month of
reflection to his job as chief developer
of the widely used operating system
Dyson the uk-based company best known
for its vacuum cleaners has chosen to
build its new electric car in Singapore
and a 16 year old boy from California
was the surprise winner of the grand
final of the classic Tetris World
Championship in Oregon
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere this is the category 5 TV
newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories with a slight linux bias Jeff
Weston Jemma you're building a brand-new
beautiful website what
aren't you your terrible actor what does
where acting comes into play I don't
know you're supposed to act okay are you
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host I'm
Sasha Rickman in here the top stories
for following this week the problems
with the Windows 10 October 2018 update
just keep rolling in as users are now
complaining of faulty zip file
extractions broken fonts and if he
brightness controls the infamous file
deletion bug and blue screen reports
have drowned out other issues somewhat
so allow us to present a roundup that
could have been titled should have kept
the testing team on a the issue with the
zip file extraction first appeared in a
reddit thread as users queried some odd
behavior when files were being copied
out of an archive previous versions of
Windows would show a warning if those
files already existed in the destination
in Windows 10 20 80 no 9 nothing it's a
pretty nasty issue a user could copy a
file out of an archive assume the copy
was successful and then delete the zip
file however if a file with the same
name already exists Windows 10 would
have silently done nothing less severe
but highly annoying for affected users
is a problem where some Unicode Unicode
characters are failing to show up
correctly software featuring certain
characters will instead see plain
rectangles it looks like there's a
problem with font substitution linking
or file back in Windows 10 where the
operating system replaces missing
characters from one font with those from
another except in version 1809 this does
not seem to be happening reliably in a
simple test in notepad for example it
has been demonstrated
while 18:03 is able to use a star
character
18:09 shows a rectangle for the same
font some apps such as office appear to
be unaffected but other windows apps
that depend on the OS to perform font
substitutions are struggling and finally
an issue in 1809 is causing the screen
to fail to dim or brighten as the user
presents the hardware keys on the
surface go and possibly others as the
dell XPS has also been shown to have the
issue a restart appears to fix the
problem briefly as does disabling and
re-enabling the graphics driver some
users have reported success in manually
installing drivers from Intel most are
suggesting rolling back your OS to 1803
but if you're unable to do that
unfortunately you'll just have to wait
until Microsoft fixes these new issues
and hopefully their fix won't cause your
computer to blue screen this has been a
rocky month for Microsoft with updates
on Microsoft Windows
October's been a little rough for
Microsoft I think what is really
frustrating about this from a user's
perspective is that it's really
difficult to turn off Windows Update in
Windows 10 it's impossible it kind of
seems that way because you'll turn it
off and then it will re-enable itself
and then you'll find a new registry key
that you can turn off and they will
re-enable itself that's what we found
it's also hard to trust updates when
it's an update that causes the problem
right like so if I have an update that
is an issue and then they say ok we have
a fix for this update and then they do
another update and it causes another
issue which is you know something that's
been happen which which issue do you
prefer yeah do you prefer to have your
files deleted or blue screen to be
honest like this whole font substitution
thing that could be a pretty big deal if
you're printing documents that have you
know very particular care yeah and I use
Unicode on occasion I think where it
would really be noticeable is if you
were using foreign characters so you
know we think of the example of you know
little graphic characters like like a
web ding or something like that but
that's not really a big issue compared
to if you're using foreign characters
that are a part of a particular font set
and the substitution just turns them
into squares we encounter that now with
French characters here in Canada so that
can be very very frustrating
Quebec you think of Quebec with the
accent over the e well that's a unicode
character right so I'm gonna put my hot
dog hat on right now all right to ask a
simple question so what's the 1809
versus 1803 what's all of that so 1803
is the update for Windows Microsoft
Windows 10 that came out in April its
yeah yeah yeah exactly so 18-point own
are 1809 safepoint 1809 was released
early October yes when Microsoft
released it it deleted files on people's
computers and broke profiles so then
they pulled it three days later they
re-released it and said ok we fixed that
but then it blue screamed HP computers
so they couldn't boot their computer
yeah so then they re released ok now
you're losing files when you extract a
zip file or everything else
Unicode and brightness control is not
working great can you imagine if you
aren't Robbie and you haven't backed up
your files in a hundred different places
and then you delete a file thinking that
you've extracted it properly and if it
could just be really frustrating and the
other place that that's annoying is a
lot of us these days use LTE internet so
we pay for the bandwidth that we're
using so if I download a giant file and
extract it and expect that it had
extracted because it looked like it went
through and then I delete the zip file
and maybe it was too big for my trash
bin so it just is gone yeah oh now I got
to download it again and I have to pay
again for that download so it's a whole
you know the Microsoft doesn't seem to
think about that when they rolled out
the Windows 10 update they didn't care
that it cost me $400 to get it through
my LTE connection right exactly
too bad
they don't have a testing team it
probably would be a good idea I would
say mm-hmm
Linux founder Linus Torvalds has
returned from a month of reflection to
his job as chief developer of the widely
used operating system
mr. 12 at 12 adds Stott Stott stepped
back pardon me from heading the core
development of Linux following
accusations of bullying and rudeness
he sought professional help to curb his
abrasive side and to develop empathy
with the Linux community his return
comes as Linux coders adopt a code of
conduct the conduct that seeks to make
the community more welcoming mr. Tovar
told a core vault tour vods if we just
edited in such a way that every time you
say mr. I say Torvalds nobody will
notice so he said he was not a people
person but was taking time off to
develop his the interpersonal skills
required by the role as the Linux
figurehead before taking the short
sabbatical
mr. Torvalds was known he was not
forgiving forthright feedback often in
the form is of expletive filled emails
to contributors mr. Torvald said he
doubted that he would ever be cuddly but
could improve the way he handled people
the code of conduct adopted by the
larger Linux community asks developers
to use welcoming and inclusive language
be respectful of differing viewpoints
and experiences it gracefully accept
constructive criticism focus on what is
best for the community and show empathy
towards other community members it also
lists unacceptable behavior which
includes sexualized imagery and language
as well as trolling and personal attacks
it calls on key developers including mr.
Torvalds to police the code and live up
to its standards mr. Torvald developed
the first version of the Linux operating
system while studying at the University
of Hull in ski Finland in 1991 since
then the free OS has become hugely
Euler across the web and in many
industries I wasn't ready for it but
it's Helsinki I find it amazing that a
man who has inspired so many yes has to
back up and is like I I know he's he
claims not to be a people person and I
understand that but but when you think
so he's an abrasive person that's his
personality type right and he's possibly
got anger issues and things like that
yeah but he as that person has inspired
thousands and thousands and thousands of
other people to have a very big
community mindset maybe maybe it's like
he has created something and because he
gave it away for free he's inspired
people who are really more community
minded and more friendly to work with it
and it's hard to know that's the thing I
feel like with people who have achieved
a lot within society though they tend to
get idolized and then maybe yeah he's
small and I'm not saying that that's
small but any aspect of their
personality that isn't in keeping with a
great leader thing gets really skewered
and I'm not saying that he shouldn't be
like repair repaired I'm not saying that
I think that probably more appropriate
like he should probably just find
someone else to do that kind of work
that that's possible yeah because it's
just not his forte right yes he's doing
some harm right yeah he likely didn't
have to develop his empathy very much
while he was busy developing an
operating system that is rockin people
like you just meet some people and they
don't have that capacity they just have
a completely different way of looking at
people and so it's difficult to change
just using sure training or a two-week
seminar or something like that I feel
like it's that's the challenge yeah I
think it's important for us as Linux
using community as well to realize and
in any community you don't have to be a
stellar person to be really good at
something
right and he did he didn't ever I think
it must be hard on him right now because
people are coming down on him because of
his personality type right and I may not
agree with it and I may not mirror that
type of behavior maybe sometimes when
the kids are being bad but well I I feel
like he probably didn't intend harm even
in when he was sending those emails like
it wasn't the fact that he's this
aggressive response like reactionary
response exactly but I don't think that
he liked his actions and his intentions
didn't meet up completely in my in my
mind thinking so think of that quote so
Sasha just said his actions and his
intentions didn't line up when he
created Linux did he intend for it to
become the world's most used operating
system and and for him to be the
figurehead of this giant community
organization right I don't think that
was his intention and he's kind of kept
out of the spotlight in that you know
he's he's very much a
behind-closed-doors kind of guy but
across him right and he'll show his true
colors I would say really lucky for him
Linux users the community of Linux users
there they're so warm and so empathetic
and so supportive that the fact that he
stepped away for a month and worked on
it himself even if he were to show some
like future blunders and maybe failings
in that regard he'll be forgiven you
know I mean as long as he practices some
of the tools he's been given yeah I
think it's important though that we not
expect someone to change who they are I
I want yeah it's good though that
they're laying out policies and saying
okay we're not gonna have sex ISM we're
not going to have people being treated
poorly or being reprimanded for like
even if someone made a mistake right I
mean we can't react like I'm a little
bit of it like a delicate flower when it
comes to feedback you have to really
sandwich your criticisms with like a
positive then negative then the positive
or else I just come away feeling like
ridiculously wounded and I'm it's and
it's not intentional probably by the
person exactly some people are just like
you did that wrong and if I could what
do you mean I feel like I could not be
mr. Torvald yeah personal assistant - oh
sure yeah I'll be a good job first so
we'll see how he does in the next in the
while but let's not be too hard on the
guy like we're all human and we all have
our own way of handling things and if
that's the kind of person he is
unfortunately we just kind of stay away
and let him stay away
let him stay away let him kind of work
behind closed doors because he's good at
what he does it's really good at what he
does
the company will break ground on its new
factory in Singapore later this year
with the first car scheduled to roll off
the production line in 2021 Dyson said
the decision was based on the
availability of engineering talent
regional supply chains in proximity to
some key target markets cost was not a
consideration Singapore is one of the
most expensive territories in the world
to do business and space for
manufacturing is at a premium in the
city state Dyson has not yet revealed
what kind of batteries its new car will
use or whether or where they'll be made
Dyson continues to develop both
solid-state and traditional lithium-ion
batteries in parallel the company
currently has 1,100 employees in
Singapore 1300 in Malaysia 1000 in China
and 800 in the Philippines yet another
manufacturer bringing out electronic
cars yes and I am I have said it before
and I'll say it again I'm so excited to
see what the Dyson car will look like
because Dyson vacuums it's actually kind
of fun and tongue-in-cheek that it's an
acht your car which is very clean and
Dyson is a cleaner known for its
cleaning interesting that they didn't in
any way consider I'm sure I'm thinking
they didn't in any way consider the
expensive aspect of Singapore Singapore
yeah
all these other companies are going to
these other right go where it's cheapest
where Labor's cheap where rent is cheap
or leasing is cheap no let's go to the
most expensive place in the world right
to do manufacturing what's it gonna cost
for me to buy myself a Dyson car oh good
thought yeah yeah they're expensive
vacuums they're expensive
yeah that's true but they're good
vacuums I wonder with the purchase of a
car if you get a Dyson vacuum how are we
cool maybe you could hook it up to the
exhaust pipe there is no exhaust pipe so
they've utilized that as a that central
vac Jack be perfect i sixteen-year-old
boy from California was the surprise
winner of the grand final of the classic
Tetris World Championship in Oregon the
iconic block stacking computer game is
13 years older than him Josef's at
Saline dethrone seven-time tournament
winner Jonas Neubauer the young man had
only started playing as a hobby after
watching the championship in 2016
Wow he plays for a couple of hours each
day on an original 1985 Nintendo
Entertainment System console hooked up
to an old CRT TV rather than a modern
flatscreen he said that he prefers using
the old fashioned monitor because
there's less latency which is a tiny
time difference between the controller
and the visual he said my friends are
like what is this guy playing and like a
retro gaming evangelist explains to them
that Tetris is easy to learn but can
take years to master mr. Sayle intends
to take part in the competition again
next year sixteen years old yeah I love
it retro is making a comeback I am so
bad at Tetris I want to be good at it I
love it so much I am just like I'm a
panicky button mashers on category five
technology TV last week we we've created
our own Tetris machine I know do I go
it's like a it looks like a smaller
version of a Gameboy but you can put
gameboy games on a Nintendo
Entertainment System games so I actually
have the original Tetris in NES
that right and I've been playing it
along with dr. Mario oh wow because both
of those are fantastic it could be the
next champion I'll work on that I don't
know Sascha
it's an easy game to learn but it takes
years to master I wonder if it plays
with the music on definitely yeah you
have to you have to I think so yeah
that's part of the competition like if
they have that like it'll be amazing I
gotta watch that yeah I'm sure it's
online what was that that was just that
movie and I loved it so much
virtual reality Oh ready player one yes
right right so I feel like this is he's
that guy right that it's just the master
of retro games at an incredibly young
age when the game itself is you know
like 13 years older than him and how old
is he he's 14 is that 16 he's 16 right
that's crazy
my kids like my daughter is our oldest
and she's 13 and and they're really
becoming more and more into retro games
and and not only retro games like from
our childhood but they're also playing
games that are made to look like our
retro games like undertale for example
like it looks a lot like a game out of
the early 80s right something you play
on ColecoVision or something like that
so they're bringing it back not only the
retro games but the styles of retro
games minecraft was another good example
it's very much like in like a late 80s
Early 90s kind of look to it right
beyond the like lens flares and yeah but
blocky and pixelated and just
everything's based on a grid system
instead of you know some fresher newer
games and yeah see what else comes out
congratulations and you're like playing
VR so it's like but I bet you there'll
be some VR games that end up looking
exactly like that like I could be
amazing if you could play D&amp;D in virtual
reality in like 2d right space
so like everything is there in 3d but
it's a 2d character exactly that's
that's gonna happen now it probably
already has happened I want like that oh
yeah I want to see that I will play that
oh come on the opposite end of that
spectrum like a while back I was buying
a CD player for like just like a
portable CD player and I went into a
Sony store yeah and I was like that's
the one and it was actually like an
exhibit from like the 1900 so I went
into an antique shop and there were
things in the antique shop from my
childhood I remember the end of 8 tracks
I remember these giving an end of
cassettes records have made a comeback
yes good and CDs or a thing of the past
like I feel like everything I know and
now we're seeing more and more stores
pulling CDs from the shelves DVDs even
DVDs are being pulled from the store
shelves right we have a 3d TV and they
are like extinct now we have yeah we
went to the store to buy some 3d glasses
and the guy said like you might as well
buy up the whole stock because we're not
there there are no more 3d TVs being
manufactured that's a thing is it
because people are switching to oculus
rifts and things like that where you can
actually look around that like in movie
theaters because they have 3d as an
option most of the time but most of the
time it's not really doing very much at
all it's very subtle effect just kind of
went in it was like yeah I want to see
you like starts going by my head like
while I'm watching a movie but now it's
like it's just kind of an additional
feature that you pay more for I love
hours I found though though like with
the more recent movies you like you its
depth in the 3d screen versus things
coming out at you right when you put the
right okay I feel like you can see
further so you see like the horizon
looks like you're looking out over the
horizon which is neat yeah I wish they I
wish that the technologies wouldn't just
be bygones
yeah but Tetris lives on Tetris lives on
folks
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm
cheezy thanks everybody for being here
with us this week that's all the time
that we have hope you've had fun and we
will talk to you again next week see ya
[Music]
[Applause]
