so zach has been doing some some
stop-motion video let's see if we can
get you in here and we're going to share
a microphone here we're looking over
this way here so you've been doing some
stop-motion video on how have you been
finding that yeah and so great one of
the cool things that your brother and
yourself and I set up as we came in here
and we decided to look at the SJ 5000 x
and it has what's called hyperlapse or
time-lapse video right so do you know
the difference between time lapse and
hyperlapse no okay what do you think of
when you think of time-lapse it's a
video that takes a picture every 20
seconds or something and then puts it
together in a video but you remember
from seeing time-lapse videos it's
usually pretty choppy yeah so you get
the day again no as it's very low frame
rate so well I'm explaining it so you
know about frames per second I just
don't know what Ganon's what what means
yeah that get get hit oh you guys
understand technical definitions get all
right all right a little yeah okay let's
break it down so you understand frame
rate and of course you shoot some stick
pop videos and things like that so you
know about you know 11 frames a second
is going to look choppy and 30 frames a
second it's going to look pretty good so
with this what we did is we set it up to
film over the course of two weeks while
we tested with growing some crystals
rule know a little bit of vinegar in a
bowl with some rocks and we wanted to
see how this would look so we didn't
just do 30 frames a second we decided
hey let's push it let's try for twelve
thousand frames a second well twelve
thousand frames a second and then I
thought oh you know what this video is a
little bit long so we bumped it up just
a little bit and using the sjk msj 5000
x so we recorded at 30 frames a second
then but by condensing the video we were
able to get 28,000 frames a second so
let's take a quick look are you ready
for the SEC because you've been waiting
to see your hyperlapse act so the
difference between time lapse and hyper
lapse time lapse is generally low
framerate choppy hyper
apps is very smooth video so when you
see a flower grow in fast motion that's
hyperlapse when you see people walking
and you know they disappear as they move
that's time lapse so that's essentially
the difference so let's take a look at
how this looks so there we are 28,500 11
frames a second now watch up there can
you see you see the crystal starting to
grow so this is over the course of many
days look at that like a thousand
hundred six or seven days did it grow
and it fell off into the end of the
vinegar it's like it's alive hey at that
kind of frames per second it's crazy and
so this is over what a couple of weeks
this is yeah Wow now I added to my
coloring so I'd smell that in and I
dropped it down to twelve thousand
frames a second seton see now all I did
was just stick a little bit of food
coloring in there for a sec and you can
see that it's like it's like it looks
like it look at the green one it's like
it's alive you like the red one the most
ok so the liquid is operative been
operating as a dog alkaline of example
large yeah and I never put the color on
the rocks I only put three drops of each
color in the vinegar and that's what
happened it kind of climbed up and you
see it moving around there on the red
line I think there's a little bit more
vinegar still left there you go so this
is twelve thousand frames a second
that's cool and you see how smooth that
looks so then I think that looks pretty
that's pretty cool and we have those
here tonight so we're anyone who's in
the studio audience if you'd like to
actually see these crystals we're going
to we're going to look at those after
the show what do you think Zach isn't
that cool yeah so that's your hyperlapse
video
[Music]
you
