here are the stories recovering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Amazon has purchased pill paths and
online pharmacy for nearly 1 billion
dollars Adidas warned late on Thursday
that hackers may have taken customer
data from its US website an experimental
robot with an animated cartoon face has
been sent to the International Space
Station on board a SpaceX Falcon 9
rocket and Facebook is giving up on its
plan to create drones that beam down
Internet connectivity these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
Jeff Weston GEMA you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you you're terrible actor what this
where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act ok I'm building a really
cool website are you building a really
cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap 5 dot TV slash DreamHost
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host this is the category five TV
newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories with a slight linux bias
I'm Sasha Rickman in here the top
stories were following this week Amazon
has purchased pillpack an online
pharmacy for nearly 1 billion dollars a
week after appointing a CEO for its
healthcare joint venture with Berkshire
Hathaway and JP Morgan Amazon announced
on Thursday an acquisition that
underscores how it also hopes to have a
more direct and more commercial role in
the world of healthcare in the coming
years the company has purchased pill
pack an online pharmacy that lets users
buy medications in pre-made doses terms
of the deal have not been disclosed by
Amazon but sources close to the deal say
that it was for just under 1 billion
dollars pill pack had reportedly been in
talks with Walmart for an acquisition
but Amazon came along offering more pill
pack has a license to operate in all 50
states in the US but it doesn't seem to
be operational in turn ash in
international markets in the pharmacy OS
the system that it billed that built it
built that forms the basis of the
company is a platform that helps manage
patient data and figure out how to
balance medications together in safe
doses for its customers pill pack was
last valued at 361 million dollars after
a round of funding in 2016 this deal is
expected to close in the second half of
2018 it just goes to show how much
they're banking on this being a success
that they pay like three times its value
well of course it's going to be an
success in that when you when you watch
any amount of TV and you see the
commercials for medications like their
constant so I get that but I also I mean
I have a far more I guess a preventative
health care kind of mindset right so I
worry about people being able to just
order off of Amazon medications that may
or may not be best for them I'm assuming
they'll have to produce some amount of
prescription for some of the right like
that yeah I would imagine so there would
have to be some medical
but daddy it's not even just that it's
the fact that Amazon recently has had
that couple that were charged in the
fraud where they were receiving things
and then saying that they were damaged
or they hadn't received them right and
they were able to scam Amazon for tons
of money I can't remember the exact
figures
so now when you're putting in
pharmaceuticals into the mix and those
are sometimes life-saving and sometimes
very addictive so you're doing that and
you're expecting people to leave the
packages on the doorsteps
I can't yeah and I can't sit in front of
Amazon and control my self right I buy
what Amazon tells me I need to buy right
oh you also probably want to add this to
your car do you know how many people are
falling into that so now when it comes
to medication that's a whole other can
of worms exactly and I know that in
Canada it's different but in the states
I know well it's not completely
different in Canada to be honest but
doctors do make a lot of money on on
kickbacks for medications that they'll
prescribe right so that changed things
right so then if you're in a doctor's
office and they have a computer right
and they give you a prescription are you
then going to feel more pressure to
actually fill that prescription because
it's that easy versus perhaps going home
thinking about it and think oh wait
maybe I can do that with diet and
exercise as opposed to a pill I wonder
too though because this has to be
shipped to you so you're looking at two
day shipping probably so is this more
like for people who this is just a kind
of a rhetorical question but is it more
for people who are on regular
medications things that are recurring
treatments essentially this is where I I
kind of side with Jeff in that there
should be like a human component to it I
liked the idea that Walmart would have
bought pill pack because go in see a
person and that person will say oh wait
no you don't look like you
this it's gonna you know maybe take that
instead well I think having a couple of
options is good right and I think the
idea of you know whether medications are
healthy or whether there are alternative
ways that's that's one side of a maybe a
different argument I think this is just
another way of consumption right so in
terms of the scammers you know you have
the proverbial man who grabs like goes
to a doctor you know a doctor could be a
naturopath even grabs like ten sheets of
prescriptions and just does the signing
of that dog let's do and you have the
same problem right so because I think
this could be of benefit to people who
are taking medications or who go to a
pharmacy regularly but maybe want a
little more privacy right it would be
good for people who can't travel outside
that's what I was just thinking yeah or
infirm who need their prescriptions
filled I guess the other Amazon story
about the couple that scams Amazon it's
just too recent for me like it's I can
understand that yeah sure adidas warned
late on Thursday that hackers may have
lifted customer data from its you a u.s.
website the sportswear makers said that
personal data including contact
information addresses and email
addresses and encrypted passwords may
have fallen into the hands of criminals
but was able to reassure customers that
neither financial nor fitness
information was at risk according to the
preliminary investigation the limited
data includes contact information
usernames and encrypted passwords it
said adidas has no reason to believe
that any credit card or Fitness
information of those consumers was
impacted the company has notified law
enforcement and brought in experts to
help investigate the breach which adidas
says it became aware of on the 26th of
June after claims by an unauthorized
party implying that the breach was only
detected once hackers attempted to sell
the data this leaves an as-of-yet
unspecified number of customers at
heightened risk of unusually convincing
phishing emails
extra vigilance and changing passwords
is advisable gotcha so that's the fear
when you have a data theft like this
it's like oh well my username I can
change my username what if you didn't
hear the story and you get that phone
call you deal with this every day yes
there's definitely an educational
process that I feel at some point should
be put into schools actually because
that's smart yeah because I think that
the young people as well as people in
older generations even myself going
through cyber security training learning
about some of the basics now what's
considered basic now and in terms of
internet use is not basic from ten years
ago
and it's not basically from 20 years ago
and if they have personal information
about you it can be very convincing yeah
yeah phone call that that's fake email
or that fake snail mail right if they
have your address they can send you
actual letterhead looking you know
government documents yes for collection
things like clicking on a email that
looks kind of funny or even by accident
it it's signaled that you clicked on
something and that you're a real person
and that you should be some more so
these kinds of things are a funny email
that you're just like oh that's kind of
funny you know some scam blah blah blah
and you open it up just for fun it's
it's signalling that you're a real
person and these kinds of things are
items that like for myself especially
I've learned a lot and in the last mmm
even even just the last couple of months
there's so much to know to prevent these
things from happening right with how
often this is happening and it always
says at the end of every story I read
change your password how often really
should I be changing my password hmm
right because I know no matter what
we're all at risk at some point from
some this is adidas like this doesn't
seem like something that you would even
care about but eventually you have to if
I can put one piece of advice onto that
before answering the question directly
it would be don't replicate the
passwords across multiple platforms so
if somebody compromised my adidas
account now we understand that these are
encrypted password
but encryption can be decrypted and as
soon as they figure out the master key
they can decrypt that so then they'll
have a database full of passwords so if
you've also used that Adidas password as
the example on online banking or on your
email little hold dear now they've got
access to that as well so they already
have your email address and now they've
decrypted your password you've used that
same password now that can access your
email if it's Gmail maybe they change
your password and then they do a forgot
password on your online banking to get
access to that it yeah never replicate
the same password across many different
platforms and I we've done it before
where people use like the password
generator or calculator or there's a
formula yes a password recipe yeah
that's my strategy is to have a recipe
for passwords so that you don't ever you
don't ever write down your password you
write down the recipe for the password
so and I'll refer you back to our
website go to category 5 TV do a quick
search for password recipe and you'll
learn all about that but I think it's a
very valid way to do it so I would look
at something like okay if my desk here
I've got a Bluetooth keyboard I've got
another Bluetooth keyboard I've got a
laptop so I think of a recipe so and the
recipe becomes my password so laptop is
part of the recipe but the actual
password is Dell I've got a counter over
here and its name is Tim so maybe put my
recipe is now laptop counter keyboard
and my password is now Dell Tim our tech
rights so I never wrote down Dell Tim
our tech I wrote down laptop timer
keyboard smart so it's a recipe for that
password I'll never forget it
nobody will ever guess it yeah but he
will even figure it out if they see my
note right this story could product
everybody to go ahead and change their
passwords
which would be great you should be doing
that often but it's really important
once you change your password to know
your password right and that's the
problem managers help big time yeah so I
have a master password for my password
manager that is based on my password
recipe and I could tell you my password
recipe you never guessed my password
you'll never figure it out but that
master password now unlocks all of these
crazy 64 digit random strings that are
my actual passwords to Twitter my online
banking all these things yeah so but I
only need to remember my password recipe
right how comfortable are you in that
you don't change your passwords that
often or do you anytime I have an ex I
hear of an exploit
so I subscribe I subscribe to a service
called mi owned and with that service
they will email you if any of your
information is ever owned and and so
it's a helpful service and so I get an
email when oh okay LinkedIn just got
hacked and my email address password and
some other information has been
exploited so now I go on to LinkedIn and
I change my password but my password on
LinkedIn is completely separate from
everything else right I never had to
remember the LinkedIn password because
it's randomly generated by my password
generator and I'm just memorizing my
master password recipe perfect thank you
and Robbie you probably wouldn't be able
to do all of those things if you were a
perfectly organized person I don't think
well something in there I'm sorry I had
my piece I'm just gonna let me just say
that that's just brilliant okay an
experimental robot with an animated
cartoon face has been sent to the
International Space Station on board as
SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket dubbed Simon
short for crew interactive mobile
companion the device is intended as an
AI based assistant for astronauts
Simon weighs 5 kilograms here on earth
but in zero gravity it will float
move itself around using 14 internal
fans it is an attempt to find out
whether robots and astronauts can
collaborate to this end
Simon is equipped with microphones and
cameras that help it recognize Alexander
Gerst
the German astronaut with whom he will
work they will work an offline button
has been designed for Simon which allows
Gers to avoid having audio strains to
servers on earth during moments of
privacy IBM engineer Mateus Vinayak said
right now our main mission is that is to
support the astronauts with their daily
tasks to save time because time is the
most valuable and most expensive thing
on the ISS Simon which speaks English
was developed by Airbus and IBM for the
German National Space Agency DLR it will
be able to give astronauts instructions
to help them carry out scientific
experiments and will be able to respond
to verbal questions as well okay I of
course will love this and it already
would like a Simon I ain't zero-g yeah
helpful all these things take me back to
the Mars mission and how this could so
easily be translated to that and I
wonder if that's the direction I bet I
wonder whether or not they could use
this idea obviously not with fans
whizzing around so that there's a robot
just floating in space but in places
where people are typically isolated
right so deep-sea missions or or you
know Secret Service II sort of things
right people where people need to feel
like they have interactions even maybe
prison systems where you really just
need to feel a connect but can't easily
I think that's interesting because I
feel that connection is is maybe I'm a
traditionalist I just feel that the
connection part and feeling connected is
a people thing and that and that AI
creates but I don't know who knows but
the part I do like about Simon is the
fact that it has a face that's kind of
cool I want to see a face actually it
probably is adorable right
and I think the benefits of such a
program is that they can stay real chill
when they're giving instructions I think
that's that's a great benefit right and
and being offline to you that's kind of
nice you know a little bit of privacy
when you're you know maybe having a
stress moment let's say when you're
trying to do a B and C but there has to
be recorded I think that's brilliant
it's very friendly yeah yeah I don't
know that you need to have another
person for a connection I just watched a
hilarious Netflix movie called
Tao and it is I don't want to spoil it
in any way and I don't need you to watch
it but it's great it's about it's about
a house like a completely automated
house and the captive inside of it and
how she bonds with the house Dave it's
it's good as how it's the sort of
situation where I can see where a I can
take you to emotional places I think
being able to take a eye off of the
phone off of the Alexa devices off of
the Google home and put it into this is
a rudimentary kind of you know mock up
test Space Station but as I say could
something like this make its way to the
Mars mission when it occurs and and a
tool of information because right in
space travel you're not going to have
access to Wikipedia you're not gonna
have access to YouTube where you can
learn how to fix a lawnmower I know what
a carburetor is now but so now take that
put it into the confines of this box and
turn it into something that is a tool
for those same purposes that we use
Wikipedia and YouTube for exactly you
know I think that I wonder and I know
I'm playing a bit of the devil's
advocate here but I wonder though if
like let's say you were going on a space
mission into infinity and let's just say
let's just say you're just gone for a
long time and once you come back let's
say you don't come back then I think
having an AI would be like Fanta
because they can interact with you and
you don't have to worry about you know
the perfection of that interaction
blinding you a little bit to how people
really are which is like a little
unpredictable you know and not just an
unpredictable but human like we're human
we make mistakes so maybe the AI if it
were you know imperfect the way we are I
think that would work okay but a perfect
you know because what I notice for
example when I use Google Maps I go in
the wrong direction and look the Google
Maps person is just like oh just keep on
going along this and just take a left
and it's it's super cool because I'm
basically never making a mistake I'm
managing you I am making a mistake big
time but it's very non-judgmental it
helps because I'm able to drive calmly
and not worry that I made a mistake but
imagine having interactions consistently
with an AI and everything you say goes
imagine coming back to the planet Earth
and then you know there should be
mistake says we're human and anyway this
is going probably in lucky girls gets
Simon and it gave Tom Hanks in castaway
volleyball so my final thought on this
one is because it takes me to how in
2001 Space Odyssey and you don't want
that to occur what I like about this is
it's it's autonomous and disconnected
this is something that I can interact
with as a cosmonaut or astronaut and not
fear it taking over my chess or my space
station or the exact leaping
capabilities right final thought another
Facebook story Facebook is giving up on
its plan to create drones that beam down
internet connectivity
project Aquila first announced in 2014
failed to achieve the long flight times
managed by airborne connectivity efforts
from the rivals including Google
one test Facebook's craft suffered a
broken wing as it came down into land
the company said that it would instead
partner with firms such as Airbus to
continue its efforts to connect more
people to the Internet the decision
means that the closure of a facility in
bridgewater UK that had been used to
build the technology in a blog post
Facebook's director of engineering Yael
Maguire said it's been exciting to see
leading companies in the aerospace
industry start investigating this
technology - including the design and
construction of new high-altitude
aircraft he goes on to say given these
developments we've decided not to design
or build our own aircraft any longer
the project kela craft had the wingspan
of a Boeing 737 and we'd the same as a
typical family car it was solar-powered
during the day and battery powered at
night and in testing managed 90 minutes
in the air however Facebook's effort
paled in comparison to Project loon a
similar idea using high-altitude
balloons rather than drones it is being
worked on by X the experimental arm of
the Google parent company alphabet
Project loon balloons have flown more
than 15 million miles of tests with the
longest continuous flight lasting almost
190 days in 2017 the balloons were used
by residents of hurricane ravaged Puerto
Rico so Project loon always gets the
wind for me I know but Facebook you know
how I feel about you but Facebook it
needs to focus on what it's really great
at and it's not beaming Internet down
via drones it turns out but I I hear
some kind of subtle nuance to what
you're saying in the story in that
Google yes alphabet Project loon yes
these are all separate entities where
Facebook is Facebook writes social media
platform and has its hands in so many
different things I think Google's
approach is going to is they are
successful as unimaginably successful
and I think that approach is part of the
- - to specialize yes and create
companies that specialize within a
blanket of alphabet exactly so I think
initially I'd be sad that this is coming
to a close this is something that we
were really excited about yes but to
know that a big company like Google has
taken over the the acceleration to being
able to bring not stratospherically
they've already done it they already
helped residents of Puerto Rico they
were able to keep those balloons in the
air I remember when we were talking
Sonic's
yeah it makes more sense it and I again
you know why am I thinking about Mars
all the time I don't know but I'm
thinking about how the balloons can be
you know a connection to earth and you
know maybe get these up in the air I
can't
but drones just don't seem the way to go
and that's what they realized and said
hey drones I mean if you needed just 90
minutes Internet you'd be fine so big
thanks to Roy W Nash and our community
of yours for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman
[Music]
[Applause]
