welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us as live @ category 5 TV and now
let's begin here's your host Rob
Ferguson welcome episode number 2 46 of
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
doing the 8 2012 good to see you Erica
how's it going excellent I'm yourself a
very good very good pretty good month I
have 12 days of school left and days of
school yes kantri the worst 12 days ever
those are like I guarantee you that's
gonna be the longest 12 days of your
life well it's going by really fast cuz
like you get to school and they're like
oh is use big project like yeah just
it's there there's no going on there's a
lot going on and like we gotta get our
tests in and and the mural that I've
been working on to bring wellness into
the school will be done on friday so i
could hopefully send some pictures and
stuff excellent yeah it's been a long
time and working on that about two
months now yeah you're very smear in the
school actually and it's been that
schools been open for 11 years almost
Wow good for you yeah so I'm gonna be
that we get something up there and then
also I took a couple of trips this month
is yeah what were you up to I heard
something about white one
rafting yeah actually I'm looking into
that I kind of want to be a raft guide
and take people down the river someday
so I've been gone I've been going
whitewater rafting every year and I just
I love it like you know just being on
the river and then you have people
who've never done it before and they see
like the big wave and they just like
stop paddling yikes and I'm just like
are you serious like come on and yeah
it's fun got to like you know push my
sister in the water and stuff like yeah
we have this heat wave here in Ontario
and that home now it's like brutally
cold it's unbelievable but we had that
one time that was when you were there so
that's brilliant I was looking at your
bio this week and Erica's bio is on our
website at category 5 TB you can learn
more about about some of the fun stuff
that she's into and and skiing as well
during the winter now whitewater rafting
in the summer that's for you yeah that's
what I'm gonna look into then that way I
can have just two seasonal jobs and then
not worry about John yeah that makes
sense because i'm trying to find you're
too good to see dave may do Dave may do
I went under the knife and is doing well
as far as I understand in the in the
chat room and so good to have you back
with us and I'm glad that that
everything went well and that you're
well on the mend great to see everybody
yeah it is great to see everyone also
right here is it the old guy Jim is
saying that the whitewater rafting in
the new gully rivers in West Virginia
the best of Mississippi well where were
you I was just like right on the Ottawa
River they have three main channels so
I'd went down only three channels I'd
move into a different hotel channel it's
river channel oh right yes yeah and
they're huge like they have sometimes
like one like when the waters really low
the waves get so hot out there actually
20 feet 20 feet and then you have like
you have like one of them Shack
you actually have like the instructor in
the back and they're like oh my god
paddle guys I'd like to see that as you
turn around with your liquid image
camera mask on oh oh you have people on
scene and they take the videos of you as
you're going down so like what they do
is they get you out of the boat and then
you look at the rapid your sin they're
like oh rapid and then like and then
pretty much they're all like yeah you're
gonna go down with the camera on your
face and then I'm like okay great and
then all the Sun like when you go down
like all here in the I see in the video
is everyone stop paddling then you see
the instructor in the back like yelling
and screaming but when everyone doesn't
paddle he gets lifted up oh he gets
launched out because he's trying so hard
but no one's doing anything so bunch of
hands the way the forces work of physics
he gets launched out but it's awesome
that sounds fun that sounds like a lot
of fun actually I don't know if I'd be
in the shape for it but sounds like fun
I'll get you to tell us what's coming up
in the news first I want to tell you
tonight we have a magicjack to give away
free long distance included for us and
canada for an entire year so we're
talking about replacing your phone
service absolutely free tonight we're
gonna be given that away I hope you left
us a voicemail we got 78 voicemail I
believe what number I'll double job to
go to yeah so we're actually going to be
doing a random draw based on those
tonight and very very excited about that
for your sake so stick around that's
happening tonight also we're going to be
continuing our series how to save money
using technology we're gonna be looking
at low foot which is a piece of
technology online that's going to allow
us to work with our smart meter in such
a way that we can really seriously save
some money and we might even get some
credit back as well for the carbon
emissions that we're saving so we're
gonna be talking about that a little
later in the show lots of exciting stuff
Erica I'll let you take it away don't go
anywhere coming up in the newsroom
we have a new type of flexible ultra
thin glass that may help smartphone
slimmer and allow for curved displays
and also selling Hardware that allows
running of counterfeit software that
could leap to jail time and Facebook is
working on a way for parents to control
their kids or friends online Microsoft
dealt a painful blow to nintendo wii u
announcing that xbox will soon connect
to your existing tablet or smartphone so
stick around for stories and they're
coming up later in the show oh I want to
hear about that I was just looking at
the wii u cuz we're thinking about
getting a wii so you wiII you come on
never even aired it what's their new
things so there are a three announcing
this great new piece of hardware that's
got the tablet and everything and now
Microsoft is doing it with your existing
tablet and I'm here all about that so
stick around folks I'm interested in the
facebook conversation cuz I they now are
like a stock or something that I heard
Jack online its fans had its ups and
downs people hey check out our mobile
website go to a m dot cat5 TV that's not
uh MDOT it's just just m dot cat five
dot TV there it is scan the code scan my
face or mine yeah and that will take you
right over to mcat five TV our mobile
version of the site also would love to
receive this week your postcard you can
snail mail that to us category five
technology TV p.o.box 2900 nine very
ontario canada l4 n7w seven we always
love to receive your postcards yeah I
need to see have you guys been getting
them in lately we haven't received any
lately they're in the mail in the mail
yeah so I I do try to mention them on
the air when they come in so get them
coming in I I don't want to say it
because I don't like to manipulate and
bribe but I will if I have to because we
are keeping a stack of these postcards
and postcards I don't know if you've
ever noticed this they're like a stack
of paper
which you can kind of shuffle like cards
and then pull one out and say oh look
you one fill in the blank so get your
postcards in people love to receive them
yeah acts well as Gottman in the mail
very cool awesome that was a subtle hint
it's better than black man i heard that
that you are getting started on twitter
yes i'm getting started i finally made a
twitter account i'm finally a tweet her
why she hadn't made any tweets but okay
no tweets no tweets yeah a Twitter
tweeter without tweets yeah and I'm like
having fun it's like having a facebook
with no photos yeah we were talking a
little bit before the show about how
you've got a phone that just has text
messaging yeah and so when i asked erica
will earn why don't you tweet from your
phone she says well I've only got text
messaging I don't have Wi-Fi or internet
or anything like that but what you can
actually go into your Twitter account
and go into your settings go into mobile
and add your cell phone number and then
you can text message to two one two one
two and when you do that because you've
already added your phone number it
recognizes oh this is coming from your
account and it places your your tweet
online which i think is awesome because
then that gives people that don't have
like a data plan yeah a chance to
actually upload what they want us yeah
do you have unlimited text messages yeah
I think so yeah or there's so many that
doesn't really matter maybe I could make
Twitter part of my my 10 you better
treat a lot here's like every day Alice
in Wonderland great to see you joining
us in the chat room for the first time
in quite a while tonight of course from
planet calypso entropia universe cap
five TV / Calypso I've been able to make
my way into the game quite a few times
over the past couple of weeks and caught
Alice there a couple times so nice to
see you joining us in the chat room Oh
alright we have a ton of viewer
questions tonight as erica is well aware
and this is like your initiation because
I said this is your third time on but
because of the way things have worked
over the past couple of shows you know
we this is really the first time that
you've had a real full force show so
we're going to work through those
questions in just a couple of moments
we've got to take a quick break and
we'll be right back after this at eco
alkalines we believe you should be able
to trust your batteries not just here
but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance the rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference eco alkalines com
this is category 5 technology TV and
you'll find us online at triple w
category five dot TV erica before we do
questions i'll get you to bring up
random.org because as promised we're
going to give away a year of telephone
service via the magic jack plus us also
a couple of quick mentions today is a
big day for me I reached 1.5 million
keystrokes on my computer and you can
actually become a part of the cat5 pulse
team on what pulse go to cap five dot TV
/ pulse and when you're there you'll be
able to subscribe install a quick little
application into your computer and it
simply keeps track of how many times you
click on your keyboard it's not tracking
the actual things that you're typing it
just tracks how many times your type of
hitting your keys so 1.5 million today
big day big day garbe was was
neck-and-neck with me and then went and
hurt his finger and I was like
yes because I'm gonna like totally take
over this week I wasn't really I mean I
felt bad about the finger because it
sounded like it was kind of a serious
injury but Garvey know that we're
thinking of you I hope that your finger
heals up but I am so gonna whoop y'all
that's all I have to say cat5 TV / pulse
to become involved also the category 5
version 3 website which is coming out on
july first has now entered that a phase
two which means that if you are a part
of the v3 betta team you are no longer
allowed to visit the existing website
you must only use the v3 website which
is hidden from the general public but
accessible to our v3 team that is in an
effort to basically get you ready for
Phase three when you start reporting
bugs and issues like that so very very
excited about that and of course phase
three you'll find the start date on our
calendar cat five dot TV / calendar all
right okay so I got random random.org
pardon me up random.org is a very cool
online service that utilizes the
positioning of the moon in order to
generate random numbers I don't know if
that's a bunk a bunch of bunk or if it's
actual legit I mean it could just be a
random number with PHP RA and the
function that's that's what we know but
read it it's kind of cute maybe it's
true okay so I do not have a temp in
tonight I do not have fancy graphics
what I have is a list on my ipod touch
of all the emails that have come in and
they are all numbered and you've got one
278 I can confirm that she does okay oh
wait just wait okay here we go I'm gonna
I'm gonna post a twitpic so you can see
that this is legit hello world there's
me at the BBQ was pouring rain was that
last weekend uh yeah nobody i'm terrible
yeah syringe okay are you ready you know
what i'm gonna do i'm actually in take
the picture after you hit OK generate 12
78 here we go on to check there and it
is 70 80 the number 74 and our winner
two nights i'm gonna tweet this see how
easy this is yeah i got alert tonight's
winner number 74 here we go now i'm
going back into my email app who's
number 74 classy you don't have to go
back far only four emails top to bottom
and here we go ladies and gentlemen our
winner who I still don't know because
it's just a WAV file that's what's cool
about the magicjack it actually sends me
a WAV file attachment to my email which
is the voicemail so i can push plant
here we go I need a plus so I don't have
to have my computer come on I've had a
regular magic jack and I like it the
only thing of it is my computer to
something it checks up and then I get
calls kind of break up so I really like
your magicjack so I don't need two
computers thank you very much sounds
like Michael congratulations my man you
are the proud owner of a new magicjack
plus sounds like you've been using a
magic jack in the past and tonight one
of the things that we're going to be
looking at is conserving power as a way
to reduce our monthly expenditures and
interesting that you would mention that
you have a magic jack that you have to
run with the computer because what's
crazy about that is that you've got to
have your computer on all the time you
don't realize that you're consuming more
power so make sure you pay attention
tonight Michael with with our feature
because interestingly enough we're
looking at saving power one of the
do that is by switching to the magicjack
plus because you don't have to have your
computer on anymore how cool is that so
pretty cool a magic jack plus is going
to be in the mail for you I need you to
email us your full name and mailing
address and as well as that you're going
to get the year phone service along with
that pardon me so Michael look forward
to hearing from you live at category 5
TV send that in you can still qualify
for a magic jack all you have to do is
give us a call on our cat phone it's 25
45 228 588 how it forward to your call
let me know your name where you're
calling from and why you think you
should win a magicjack plus and we'll be
doing a draw in two weeks time well we
have a lot of viewer questions tonight
excellent i might as well get started
with one so this one starts off so hey
there are some okay websites out there
and i think i can improve them because
of category 5 web development series
which is awesome I found web HTT two out
httrack can copy websites but I'm having
some trouble setting it up copying
displaying the material what needs to be
configured to allow copying to a cure
and send the copied material to your
service server folders which are on the
same system okay so that's from Dan
thanks Dan so what I'm doing I'm taking
a quick look at httrack website copier
and i'm not sure if ice if I've seen
this particular one I know I've used
similar applications in the past
basically what they do they go out onto
the web and they download a static
version of whichever website it is that
you're browsing so here's the problem is
it's all client side it's rendered HTML
so all of that PHP that actually makes
the stuff go that makes it work you're
not going to get that let's say for
example you go on to oh I guess I can't
think of an example I'm terrible with
examples
I'm not really but like if you were to
copy our website category 5 TV and then
we brought it another episode you
wouldn't get that new episode because
you don't have the dynamic content you
only have the static content the output
so that's you know that's the thing
you're dealing with a whole different
type of file so you're gonna be
downloading the HTML and in order to
make that I guess is the question really
how do you now host that so that you
have a mirror copy so you would need an
apache server a web server pardon me you
can get a web server application called
Apache you'll you'll want to install
that on a Linux computer and then you
can host that yourself or however you
want to do it but you're probably you
know if you actually want to host it as
if you were mirroring another website in
case they go down and there's another
copy that's static only not dynamic you
can download it using this httrack
software host it on either your own
server or let's say a web host let's say
you go we have a coupon that that you
can use if you go to let's see cat5 TV /
dream host and when you go there this is
a web hosting company that provides very
affordable shared hosting you can see
it's all for 895 a month say you go sign
up okay and we're going to just I'm just
going to put in some gibberish here for
a second just to get you to the next
step because I want to show you what you
can do there's my gibberish OH
apparently my email doesn't work
they didn't like ASDF calm it was quick
and easy okay so what do you want to do
hey register a new domain for free so
get your own calm all right scroll down
give it a domain name we're going to
call this no master but I back because
we know that one's probably available
you can choose your TLD extension
continue what I want to show you here it
is is how to save yourself some money
okay because we want to go let's say
we're going to go a year prepaid with a
free trial and then go continue okay
hokey doodle questions to get me there
don't actually do this actually fill in
the information okay i don't know
cambodia no no or canada yeah there is a
purpose to my madness I want to save you
money I want to give you stuff for a
really really good price see if it lets
me further cuz on the last page oh
goodness how did you hear about us
category five TV and what city were you
born I don't know maybe Barry okay promo
code or email that referred you here it
is check it out cat five TV that's what
I want you to see promo code or email
that referred you cat5 TV wish it wasn't
so hard for me to get there but of
course you're going to fill in the
information just do not forget to fill
that in reason being as soon as I agree
and hit continue what do I get a promo
code that gives me forty nine dollars
and forty cents off well so now for only
seventy dollars I'm getting website
hosting on their servers with the free
domain name registration it's a full
year's worth of service and it's got a
ton of stuff it's unlimited bandwidth
unlimited storage virtually unlimited
like you're never going to exceed what
they give you and you you just can't go
wrong for the price so don't forget that
promo code don't forget to check that it
was cat five dot TV / dreamhost and the
promo code cat5 TV
reason I showed you that is because you
got to have a place to host your website
now that you've downloaded it with
httrack and of course you can use that
for your own web hosting as well if you
have a website you want to host it there
so basically then once you've got a
hosting account you upload the files
that you just down that you downloaded a
mirror to your hard drive and then post
it on your comm dreamhost gives you the
free com so call it whatever calm and
then people go there and it looks like
the other site which is a mirror I don't
know the reasoning folks why why this
viewer is doing that but that answers
the question I believe so good luck you
got to have a place to put it on the web
that's web accessible if you have the
technical know-how you can host it
yourself if not dreamhost is a great way
to go thanks for the question and we're
going to have to zip along with viewer
questions tonight okay so next to your
question so I've not used a boot to
sense 4.1 i have used fodor and yellow
dog as my secondary system to my mac
background so I've decided to give a bit
to get mo a shot after watching an
episode of your show I'm having issues
with the network wireless it keeps
asking for password all suggestions on
the website that I've tried don't seem
to work thanks Robbie for all the help
really enjoy the show and thanks Robbie
and this is I think Robbie Jacobson ok
cool awesome some Robbie um could be so
many things but of course the first
thing I'm going to say is you need to
have a password on your Wi-Fi if you
think that you're able to connect to
your wireless router without a password
there is a big security problem with
that so I'm not going to teach you at
all because I just couldn't sleep
tonight if I taught you how to bypass
the need for a password so that you can
connect without a password remember that
as soon as you connect to Wi-Fi you are
sending information and receiving
information over wireless connection you
are going to do your online banking
potentially from that laptop do you
really want people to access that do you
want people to be able to access your
that are on your hard drive there has to
be encryption if there's not encryption
people can do those things people can
get access to your email they can get
access to your online banking they can
get access to your personal files your
printers even so that's just a big huge
no-no so we're going to stay away from
that get on to your router log on to
your router set it up with wpa2 or
better encryption don't go with WEP WEP
is not safe very very easy and quick to
hack so going to your router which if
you're unsure how to do that look at the
device manual or contact the the vendor
that you rent it from if you rent it if
it's an all-in-one kind of modem /
router combo definitely your ISP will
have that information how to log into
your router and change the WPA 2
password and then you go back to your
boon to system and enter that password
verbatim into that computer and then at
least you know you've got an encrypted
connection as far as how to connect to a
system that is unencrypted I'm not going
to I'm not going to even suggest that
that you do that so instead fix your
security issue that's key alright um
John also is another note so he says
Robbie one reason a job by the way to
not use a password on Wi-Fi it can
easily be cracked if you use one and
some countries you're responsible for
what happens if you have no password you
and claim plausible than deniability I'm
not I'm not sure I understand what what
he's saying there do you well he's
saying he's like saying not use password
cuz I can never stand by anybody who
says don't use a password if you are
running an unencrypted you have to you
have to fix that because you're
transmitting data I'll give you an
example I have a customer who has an
iphone they went away on vacation and
they were using an open Wi-Fi hotspot to
check their email and unfortunately they
weren't using encryption on their email
either so he was at the hotel and he
checked his email from his iphone
and because we host his email of course
we saw what was going on within the day
all of a sudden about 15,000 emails were
going out in his account and he said
well I didn't do it it's I only have my
iphone with me here on vacation somebody
in the hotel had actually intercepted
his Wi-Fi signal had it gotten his
password for his email and then used it
to to blast using his account so hmm big
big issue there you don't want to
connect or use any Wi-Fi that is not
encrypted or password protected the
password generally means that it's
encrypted but you want to make sure that
it's solid encryption not WEP so sorry
John I don't quite follow what you're
saying yeah pirates rock mentioning that
they have issues with Wi-Fi if you use
encryption that could be be HCP issue in
which case you want to look at the you
know the root of the problem but
decrypting your network is never the
solution making it so that other people
can access your stuff is never the
solution that's not the right way to do
it if it comes down to it I would just
go hard wired or get a better router if
you have a problem with the HCP over
Wi-Fi try using a different a different
protocol for a different encryption
algorithm tried a few of the different
options try firmware upgrade I've seen
it where that same kind of thing happens
and a firmware upgrade on the router
fixes it so few different things you can
try oh yeah cause like even where I live
like I go and I sign in to my wireless
yeah and I can get into my neighbor's
pretty much your neighbor system yeah
cuz I or you mean when you bring up your
computer you can see their wireless and
I can click on it and I'm connected and
I'm like I never do that but at the same
time it's like not sure which neighbor
it is but we have like I get a suburban
area you have you're so close together
two mile radius so figure you know k
anywhere two miles that way you know or
am I like literally I try pop it up I
look for mine they can just have to go
through an entire list yeah it'll be
locked unlocks locked i'm like in these
days what's the router that you want to
buy you going to the store and you buy
the router that said
maximum range maximum signal super high
power this one will definitely work in
the bedroom right because you want to be
able to access your Wi-Fi from anywhere
you don't want to go upstairs and lose
your signal so you buy the one with the
maximum range and of course what does
that mean if your unencrypted neighbors
and growlers and people accessing your
stuff and you know how networking works
right if I'm on the same network as you
I can access your files fairly simply so
danger Will Robinson okay well we have
another viewer question I I think we're
gonna have to halt on the voter
questions for tonight because it is time
for the news tonight that's John but we
love receiving your questions we're
going to absolutely get through them I
know that we've we've received a ton of
your viewer questions this week and I
think that's just to initiate Erica and
and it's working it working so next week
we're going to do a viewer question
extravaganza impromptu and we're going
to get through those questions for you
in the meantime Erica I will allow you
to take that away well awesome so here
the top stories from the category 5 TV
news room a new flexible ultra thin
glass has been unrevealed by the firm
that developed gorilla class
we use to make screens of many mobile
devices dubbed willow glass the product
can be wrapped around a device that the
new york-based developer Corning the
glass was showcased at the Society for
information display display week as an
industry trade show in Boston the
company said that besides smartphones it
could also be used for displays that are
not flat but until but until such
screens appear on the market the glass
could be used for mobile devices that
are constantly becoming slimmer which is
most phones nowadays yeah I could see
like just looking at that if that's four
screens I could see like a wraparound
virtual reality kind of setup mm-hmm
that would be cool that would be super
cool see I always wanted like I always
wanted video phones but I think with the
glass that'd be pretty cool um just like
kind of like like projectile-like have
like someone just project right in front
of you oh like a like a holographic kind
of deal yeah like the Japanese musicians
pop stars and stuff well um they brought
back to package gela same kind idea
right yeah I just be like hey how's it
going you know maybe you can like make
yourself look better one of those
amazing technologies that is both
amazing like beyond belief and blow your
mind and creepy extremely I wonder what
Tupac's think he's a computer program at
this one saying like his soul he's like
I perform shows that I'm dead getting me
that's auto tune in my eyes okay so
authorities in Japan have arrested a
suspected video games pirate in the
first case of its kind so the magic I'm
sorry about this name of a country but
magic magic on intercom magic con isn't
it nothing ya think it's not that's that
little nintendo DS thing that you pop it
in kind of look like it like the
modern-day game genie if you're eight
Nintendo fan where you pop it into your
D s and then it takes like SD cards and
stuff oh okay I think it's called magic
on or hardship or something like that
something yeah so for magical and
manufacturers claim the equipment is
designed to allow gamers to run home
made software which makes sense but
apparently they have been widely used to
play pirated games downloaded from the
internet copied onto the SD cards the
rest apparently involves an individual
who is selling the device and Nintendo
said it hope it hoped the case would
discourage other illegal vendors thanks
yeah I would say that was like like even
at my school like kids download stuff on
to the right st car you could take
anything from the school really oh dear
just saying okay so according to Wall
Street Journal Facebook may soon allow
children younger than 13 years old to
access the site under parental
supervision by linking children's
account to those of their parents it has
also reported that with this link
established parents could also allowed
to control whom their children add as
friends well yeah then what's the point
if you're under 13 you really that's
just their excuse to get advertising out
to the kids and yeah a gate gonna call
it would be all over that McDonald's
they have better things that didn't be
on Facebook like really like 12 year
olds not really I did regeneration play
Halo or some people little 12 year olds
that's the recommendation that you get
from Erica play halo Ursula halo or
something you know you can talk online
wow you know you get you get social
interaction through microphones and
you're not just searching up people
sitting there you know like oh this
person's life is so cool you know hey
looks fun okay end of story okay so
Microsoft has Delta paid
painful blow to Nintendo as they
demonstrate their wii u at e3 this week
microsoft has unrevealed Xbox SmartGlass
a service to allow your existing tablet
computer and smartphone to communicate
with your xbox game consoles which is
very similar to the bound to be
expensive Wii U which includes a tablet
as a game controller Microsoft's smart
glass allows users to control games on
their touchscreen devices and can
control extra information about progress
it also lets the handheld act as
controllers for the firm firms Internet
Explorer web browser which will launch
on the console later this year wow that
that to me like that just makes sense
because my device already has an
accelerometer and a good decent
touchscreen multi-touch and I was
looking at the wii u thinking all that
tablet is so cool but i can with the
xbox you can do it with your existing
tablet we have a couple of different
devices yeah we don't have any time you
kill her before it's even released
that's crazy yeah like that but I'm not
bored intendo I just gotta feel bad I
feel like they're the bomb and yet
they're constantly behind yeah I kind of
was looking at the wii u's facts and
it's it's great but it's kind of a
little bit ahead for the moment but it's
still old hardware and it's going to be
surpassed by the next gen of anything
that comes out very very quickly well
soon like even with Microsoft like
they're going to probably even better
the wii u after this like like once it
even comes out yeah like they'll come
they've already done it yeah we just had
our Nintendo just made the announcement
like on Monday or Sunday or something
like that about the the controller but
the controller is like a
two-hundred-dollar device that you have
to like that you get with the wii u so
people are speculating that is going to
be a five-hundred-dollar console so now
they're saying no wheel went up you will
let you use your existing tablet on your
xbox
well Xbox did that with Kinect as well
yeah just now is connect without central
way yeah you can just like I was using
at my friend's house and like it's so
easy and he's but sometimes he's sitting
there yelling at it and he'll be like
connect connect so the the question like
he's sitting there like come on like you
getting all angry and stuff and I'm like
it's fine I wonder if Microsoft's are
really just stick to the gaming and the
things like they seem to be doing it
kind of right that seems like a really
attendez probably just looking for the
most profits as they can I don't know
when Nintendo has never been like that
for in this case cuz it's like you
actually have to buy their own tablet
like yeah mmm it was kind of smarter
than I think the margins margins
themselves on the devices that's higher
on an xbox and it is on the Nintendo
mm-hmm like the Wii devices they're
cheap for the cost of manufacturing I
think so I know I interrupted you you're
gonna say the full story nope I know
well get the full stories category five
dot TV / newsroom and the category five
TV news room is research by roald roy w
Nash with contributions from our
community of viewers if you have new
stories do you think that are worthy of
on-air mention send us an email and at
newsroom at category 5 TV and for
category 5 DB newsroom I'm Erica lalonde
Erica thank you great job and tonight
our show is brought to you in part of
course by garden gate farms com check
them out for certified organic broccoli
sprout and wheatgrass juice visit Garden
Gate Farm scom also the official
electrical company of category 5
technology TV is quarter eee electric
you can find out more about them
following the details on your screen or
visit quarter e electric com certainly
if you're looking for an electrician
within the berry and surrounding areas
then that's who you want to call this is
category 5 technology TV i'm your host
Robbie ferguson
americal alone and also category 5 TV is
a member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here and the
International Association of Internet
broadcasters thank you erica um yeah I'm
not sure what a blueberry is I just have
enough fun chat yeah Lou berries what
strawberries too well no no no just
making fun a blackberry from rim Oh chat
room chat room folks they're just
messing with us it's okay yeah i usually
get left out of that well my first time
ever using msn i had a friend named JK
and someone said to me he's like yeah JK
JK and I'm like why are you talking
about JK and I was totally left out that
JK msn chat means just kidding okay but
I was like why are you talking about my
friend like like JK JK but yeah oh
that's his name yeah that's name and see
in these situations I using took me a
while to figure out why people were
sending me emails with a J at the end
and I realized oh microsoft outlook has
a little smiley face that translates
into a jay took me a while so now you
know yes the story Erica I would I was
mentioning at the top of the show we're
gonna learn a little bit about saving
money it's based on power consumption
tonight you're familiar with the smart
meters you've heard about those and the
fact you know they kind of went around
Barry here and and installed them a
little while ago here in Barry and you
know there's there's those of us are
those in the local area and around the
world who say you know no too smart
meters no smart meters are bad and this
and that and they and concerned about
companies knowing too much information
about you and all this and that I think
the most legitimate concern that i saw i
mean the hydro company can come around
to your meter and then read it at any
time but i think the most legitimate
concern that I
would have sized that the fact that a
hydro meter reader I don't know what the
actual position is called but the fact
that those people are I have to go to
the meter means that they're kind of
going to kind of inspect things as
they're there you would think so if
there's a problem an electrical problem
they might detect that at the meter
whereas the smart meters because they're
all electrical you know it could be
sparking and nobody would know about it
for months so seems legitimate enough
but the fact is what smart meters do
open us up to as consumers is access to
our usage data in a way that we've never
been able to do before by using that
usage data we're able to determine when
our peak times are that we're using a
lot of hydro I've even been able to
determine you know how exactly how much
does my central air conditioner cost and
by just kind of manipulating the
thermostat just a little bit I can
actually visually see because of my
smart meter how much money I'm saving
and how much money I'm spending every
time I do something with the electricity
within the house so along comes a great
service called low foot and this service
is if you're in Ontario Canada then this
is for you and if you're not then there
are certainly going to be similar
services made available to you I think
low foot is a prime example though of an
excellent excellent service for this
purpose so now having access to our
smart meter data we can do stuff that we
were never able to do before low foot
takes an interesting perspective because
they firmly believe that by reducing our
hydro usage there's a couple of things
that happen first thing that happens is
of course we're going to save money
because our hydro bill is going to be
less because we're using less hydro
second thing is it's going to if there's
enough people doing it in a way that is
practical it makes sense because the pie
chart just doesn't work I mean you get
the pie chart here in Canada and
somebody gives it to you and says okay
well here are your peak times this is
when you're supposed to use the high
drone this is when you're not nobody
really sticks to it because this pie
chart sitting on your fridge
if it came to me in an email and said
hey by the way try not to use too much
energy tonight maybe turn off the lights
or whatever then all of a sudden becomes
practical and I can I can achieve that
so along comes low foot and they say
okay let's get 10,000 people together on
this site let's get a hundred thousand
or a million people together to all
conserve energy at the same time and
what does that do now we can measure not
just a little bit that Robbie Ferguson
is able to save but the massive amount
that all these people that are using the
service are able to save lofa connects
into my smart meter data provided by my
power company and that data is then
aggregated and parsed in a way that I as
a lay user to electricity I'm able to
understand so using that now they can
see okay now we've saved not just this
little bit but a cumulative we
accumulate that's a hard work
accumulative ly we have saved this
massive amount and now we've perhaps you
know done enough or done something for
the environment that says okay well now
there's no need to build another power
plant here or perhaps you know that's
generating enough energy the same amount
of energy as several hundred wind term
turbines so you're not having the
environmental impact as as you would
with generating more power as you are
with reducing so what else is
interesting about low foot is that they
keep track of your successes in saving
energy and they encourage you and help
you to to save energy in practical ways
by email by graphs and visual
representations that make sense so now
they take that data and they say okay
well you've achieved it all month so
we're going to give you some low foot
credits and that can actually be
translated in the cash into your pocket
so not only are we saving money but we
have the potential to also earn money
for our savings as I understand that the
hope would be and it makes absolute
sense that now you know companies and
it's not in place yet as I understand it
but low foot could then sell the cost
savings as carbon footprint emissions
reductions to companies that need to
offset their
their carbon footprint so very
interesting business model very
interesting service and oh and i just
realized the cam video I'm sorry Here I
am explaining it I'm going to just
install this here so now I actually pre
set this up it only took me about 25
minutes to set this up in its entirety
but I'm going to just kind of accelerate
the video just a little bit so that you
can see first thing it asks me for is my
information my name and username that I
want on the site and from there we'll
just create an account and the first
thing that I received from low foot is
just a quick little email that that said
hey you click here to authenticate you
can see on the next screen here that
I've been sent an activation link so by
following the link that that has been
sent to my email there we go my email
address has been verified how hard is
this to set up again low foot calm and
you can see there are a number of
notification settings and when I clicked
on privacy here said I can't do anything
because I haven't added my meter so I'm
going to click on that and you'll see a
list here that has a list of utility
providers if your provider is in here
then I would assume that that means that
it's going to work for you if it's not
then it will not by clicking on my
provider now i get an option to click to
learn more about how to set it up and
you'll see that it's actually very
verbose there's screenshots there's
links and a nice little walkthrough on
how to activate your smart meter so that
they can access the data very very
simple done securely and so I've gone
through the steps on my providers
website and now I've provided the
information too low foot I highly
recommend that you read the members
agreement and I did here now I've
actually accelerated this video quite
substantially and actually cut out some
in the middle as I said took me an
entire 25 minutes and I and I read
through that whole thing and everything
checked out just fine for me basically
says that they're going to use your data
for the purpose of aggregation and and
for their service so now my account is
connected so or my meter is a connected
and so I'm going to go and see my usage
and you can see now I actually get a
graph and I didn't realize that it's not
going to be from here forward it's
actually it goes back to the time when
my smart meter was installed so now i
can see that tuesday nights are a little
bit of a peak and if i go back in time i
can actually see previous months and i
can see you know what those months look
like peaks and valleys and i can start
to plan my electrical usage based on
that mm-hmm so the next step for me was
to figure out okay well now that I have
the ability to keep track of my entire
house holds power usage which is
fantastic because now it makes sense i
mean you saw the graphs and its really
really easy to understand all that
really well laid out better than then my
provider themselves as far as their
website goes my problem is is and why
does it keep going to you sorry about
that folks okay it's lovely girl a
lovely girl but not to be here okay i
have this server that runs all the stuff
that you see on category 5 TV it's an
old box but it acts as a front end to my
unraid server and I say well okay I
wonder how much power this thing is
actually using on my system and so what
what I've actually done is gone out and
gotten this device called a kilowatt and
a kilowatt it's felt kil kil dash a dash
wat for wats right kill a twat and this
device retails I've seen them I went on
amazon today just to check it out for
you let's see what what was their
pricing like roughly thirty to fifty
dollars so you can get it as low as 30
if you get one on sale or whatever
they're about 50 60 bucks normally so
this tells you how much power a
particular device plugged into it is
actually using so I plugged it into this
big old server the dell poweredge 1400
in the middle there which has been
ultra-reliable but as you can see is
using 79 watts of power 79 watts of
power so I said to myself okay well what
does that exactly mean what does it
translate into now that I've got my
a system set up with low foot my power
meter and my smart meter set up with
that I can start to determine things I
pulled out my bill and I determine okay
well it's got to me about eleven cents
per kilowatt hour for hydro so there we
go this server I'm going to take 79
watts okay so 79 on your calculator and
we're going to go x 24 for one day /
1000 that's going to give us the
kilowatt hour usage per day 1.89 6 i'm
going to times that by point 11 because
i'm paying 11 cents per kilowatt hour
per day so per day that server is
costing me twenty cents igan times that
by 365 to see what my cost is per year
and I've determined now based on that
real simple calculation that my 79 wat
server is depleting my bank account of
seventy six dollars a year doesn't seem
like a lot but it's a little bit of
something when it's such a basic device
on my network and I'm using that as the
example so I set out to find a
low-powered server something that would
use very very little hydro and along
comes a device called the fit pc3 and
I'll give you a quick rundown of this
and we're going to actually be reviewing
this here on the show it looks like a
router quite frankly yeah it does it
looks just like an exact same I'm just
about the same size as a router it's got
the Wi-Fi dual antennas and everything
like that but you'll notice something
interesting about this is the design now
you can't see at home but feel that what
do you know do you notice ya know is
having that it's heavy because this
entire body of this unit is a heat sink
for the unit itself there are no fans
and it is a an actual computer a
full-fledged computer and in fact is way
better than the server that I'm running
in their taking up that much space and
taking up 79 wats looking at the specs
of this device it's the fit pc3 you can
find out more about it at cat five dot
TV / fit fi t
this device has four gigabytes of ram
and a 1.6 5 gigahertz apu based on AMD
chipset with virtualization has a 250
gig hard drive integrated and comes
pre-installed with linux mint that's the
quick rundown so we're gonna plug this
into the kilowatt as I showed you here
here we go this device is very coolest
and tell us how much wattage we're using
and i'm going to plug this in i'm going
to set up the video so that you can
actually see what's coming up on the
screen once it runs it boots up there we
go um Joe is saying that you could tell
everyone that when you say hi Joe it
means power in our city yeah there we go
okay powers on awesome ok so I'm going
to set this down power is on and it is
booting there we go okay and right now
at this very moment hard to see 16 watts
thanks during boot so it's it's pulling
quite a bit of draw and we experienced
this when we reviewed a multi media pc
kind of system a couple of weeks ago
with the iOS devices that it seems to
draw quite a bit off the top but then as
soon as it's booted than everything see
it's going down to 14 and on a standard
idle where the server was at 79 wats
this is running about 11 watts at just
running okay because remember i'm
running these things 24 70 just spiked
up to 19 but i did real oh ok so let's
see where it about averages couple of
little spikes there is it's booting
remember we're booting the computer up
right now so it's doing everything and
there it is oh and it's loaded the Wi-Fi
and everything like that so a little bit
more power needed there and now it's
tapered off and down at 13 i'm watching
this on the screen with you as well at
home so it looks like it's pretty stable
around 13 14 13 ok so let's let's say
our average is about 13 for when it's in
running mode
oh it's gone up a little bit so let's
set the average at 15 because we did
spike up a little bit there so let's say
it were to run at 15 watts okay so we
used that same math and what did I say
the last one was 76 dollar seventy six
dollars a year I'm going to just jot
that down 76 dollars per year okay so
I've got this at 15 watts x 24 hours /
1000 to get our kilowatts per day which
is 0.36 times point 11 is the cost of my
kilowatt hours four cents for the day as
opposed to the 20 that my server is
running times 365 my cost to run the on
this particular device the fit pc3 is
fourteen dollars and forty-five cents
per year 24-7 running all the time at my
current hydro rate 14 dot 45 cents
remember that this is a 1.6 five
gigahertz computer with a 250 gig hard
drive networking gigabit ethernet Wi-Fi
everything that i need e-sata if i want
to hook up like an external a raid
device or drobo or something along those
lines drobo pro that would allow me to
have external storage it's going to
connect through land to my data storage
server which is running unraid and so
we've just cut let's do the math real
quick 76 dollars take away 1445 my
monthly bill has now gone down by 61
dollars and fifty five cents well okay
61 dollars and fifty five cents in
savings that's for a guy who's running a
server in his background I run a show
and that's inevitably necessary but
there's a lot of companies out there
that are running storage servers or
let's say an Apache server imaginal
linux server that only uses 13 14 15
watts and only cost you fourteen dollars
a year to run that's absurd stick a
solid-state drive in there it's a
spinning hard drive the 250 gig hard
drive it's a standard 2.5 inch hard
drive so now we've we create a device
that's entirely solid-state there are no
moving parts if you put a solid-state
drive in there
what are we at right now 10 watts and
it's sitting running doing its thing
just with Linux Mint boot it up amazing
amazing so the cost of this device now
remember it is a full-fledged server
computer it's a workstation it's got 3d
HD graphics HDMI output comes with an
hdmi to DVI adapter so it could be used
for a full computer if you're thinking
about buying a computer here's the
option it's solid state it's not going
to it's it's it doesn't have fans that
doesn't make any noise and by mounting
bracket to put it on a back of a monitor
and it's fast it's linux-based and 4
gigs of ram 250 gig hard drive and uses
heard me very very little power so
you're automatically saving money mm-hmm
cost is about six hundred dollars and
around that range for the system which
is pretty common pretty typical for a
half decent computer keeping in mind it
does have HD graphics could be used for
many different purposes considering its
hdmi HD 1080p whatever you want to use
we're actually connected to it at 1080p
right here and it's working
fantastically unfortunately don't have a
mouse to plug into it otherwise I'd love
to show it to you and that's why we're
going to do a review down the road so
cutting off 61 dollars and fifty five
cents off of my bill is it worth six
hundred dollars well maybe not if that
was the only savings but fact is I'm
going to be deprecating that server to
replace it with this so now all of a
sudden not only am i saving power but
I'm saving space it's very very small if
you got like an external a raid device
ESAT a with multiple hard drives and
carpet I mean I hate to say it but
carpet date the thing to the top you've
got an entirely self-contained backup
unit that has a 1.6 5 gigahertz computer
built in it could be running Apache it
could be running virtual machines it has
andi's virtualization technology built
into the APU so now it becomes a virtual
machine server fantastic stuff and
limitless as to what you can do so again
we're going to be looking more at the
fit PC down the road but check them out
cat5 dot TV /
and for tonight look at the power that
we're able to save just by changing our
mindset about what kind of device we
need to use today we're able to get very
very low powered devices and interesting
to see that that it does make a
difference when it comes to the bottom
line at the end of the year in the
meantime pick yourself up a kilowatt
again you're not going to see them any
higher than probably 60 bucks go get
yourself one of these it's going to be
you plug it into your fridge and tell if
your lesson power you can like literally
like I think that's totally worth it
because you can test everything in your
house anything at all if it's got a
power outlet and a power cord you can
test it find out how much it's costing
you based on the wattage and keep in
mind we're going to be posting on our
website category 5 TV a full list of all
the ways that we're going to be
conserving power doing things better for
the environment you've seen that we
actually have a web page on our website
category 5 TV for our green initiatives
do check that out but also all of the
cost savings is going to be broken down
including the out-of-pocket expenses so
when we look at the cost savings we're
also gonna be looking at how much does
it cost to get there so everything's
very realistic do keep a watch on our
website there will be a matrix that will
share that data with you in a comparison
and help you to be able to save money
perhaps for your home perhaps for your
business and we're very excited about
some of the ways that we can rework
things and and just change our way of
doing things using technology these days
it's very very exciting check out lo
foot calm and check out what they're
able to do with your smart meter and how
they're able to aggregate your data in a
and a way that makes sense to me and
maybe that will save you as well it's
definitely better than the pie chart on
your fridge definitely definitely Erica
I can't believe that we are out of time
nice to see you nice to have you here
tonight I'll be turning 18 at the end of
the month 18 happy birthday to you I
don't know if we'll see you before then
but certainly will
9 jun 29th so so hint and that gives you
just enough time to send cards and
chocolate oh love it all right happy
birthday thank you nice to see everybody
thanks for joining us here in category 5
TV do check out our website category
five dot TV check out my blog blog
category five TV where I'm very excited
the category five is going into mainland
China so toss that out to find out more
that's all the time that we have I wish
we had more time to talk more get on
people asking about the kilowatt you can
just get on google get on amazon get on
your local vendors website they're
available pretty much everywhere so
check it out you'll be able to get one
of those very very handy device for your
kit have a great week everyone and we'll
talk to you next tuesday night awesome
see ya see ya later
stopping
