back to our mini HD media player any
questions Shelly you mentioned oh yeah
zero 120 ad had one whoo oh yes you're
the one who told what see 128 D says if
that device could play PowerPoint
presentations I could sell a lot of them
to churches for their Lobby
announcements display PowerPoint right
okay that's a whole different can of
worms hmm
because PowerPoint are not images
they're not videos right there Baisakhi
there's Isis yeah pipi yeah but you can
export each frame to an image can't you
yeah on PowerPoint boom no transit okay
so I don't care what you're using if
you're using PowerPoint we bring up hey
we've got 2 min but it's just built into
the machine right yeah that's right I've
drawn transition is the transitions are
built into the player so we don't have
to worry about the fact that images do
not carry the transition there you go
let's see how this goes okay Jeff said
it we can convert to ping or JPEG or yes
on some sort I don't care if you're
using PowerPoint I don't care if you're
using LibreOffice OpenOffice whatever
I'm going to show you on LibreOffice
impress how to convert your PowerPoint
file to images and then we're going to
try this okay image impress is part of
LibreOffice it's absolutely free it
comes with Linux it's included on Debian
9 and if you're on Windows Mac Linux
whatever you can install it it's
absolutely free go to libreoffice.org
and I'll put the link below for you so
let's get on to I'm just going to bring
up Google and do a search for PowerPoint
sample and I find one here that is
sample videos calm and looks like
they've got a couple of examples here
I'm going to grab one here and open it
with LibreOffice impress why am i doing
it with impressed because again I don't
care what you're using to create your
PowerPoint LibreOffice and we talked
about this on episode number 510 when
we're talking about differences in
desktop environments LibreOffice will
open anything whether it's from
Microsoft Office or a free office suite
so it will work for everyone so and it's
absolutely free so let's just do that so
I'm going to open this PPT file notice
it is a PPT file Microsoft PowerPoint
presentation PPT and I'm going to open
it with free LibreOffice impress let's
see what happens there it is
so there demo if I hit f5 is how to use
power opponent let's scroll through
there you go that's what it looks like
first thing I notice I've got a sixteen
over nine TV the presentation is in for
over three see the black bars on the
left and right yes first thing I want to
do is correct that now you could export
two images as you say yes and then you
could take them into GIMP and go through
rescaling them and everything but that's
a boatload of work let's make it really
really easy for you so do it from the
get-go
so click on the first slide if you like
click on slide and you notice okay
everything is grayed out that means that
this is a read-only document so this
document is open and read-only mode
there you go so click edit document then
go slide slide properties first screen
you see is paper format why Microsoft
and LibreOffice still consider it paper
when it's a presentation like how many
of you have printed a PowerPoint
presentation I did a few weeks ago give
you know I made my sermon note if you
like go like this for the transition no
no it was my sermon note I had a
PowerPoint presentation because I was
speaking a Father's Day Church night and
printed it off and so yeah and over
there there you go yeah perfect after J
does it table so you actually had her
reason to print I didn't I couldn't
think of one you did yeah only one well
I was preaching yes well zanny okay
my favorite note yes all right format
you have all kinds of paper right then
screen sixteen over nine not Erica click
it hit OK okay hit up live now or fill
in the space now we're the boss of it
there we go
as long as we're
cutting anything off we are happy we can
reposition things as we need to oh look
at those fancy transitions that we're
not going to see but that's okay so
let's go back to LibreOffice impress
just like this we've converted to the
sixteen over nine now super super simple
file export and let's throw it on my
desktop I'm going to create a folder
called test and in that folder I'm going
to change my format to HTML document
impress and then hit save now and the
reason we're doing HTML document is
we're tricking it into saying hey we're
going to turn this into a web page I'll
take all those slides and make them into
web pages for me which is going to use
images so new design apparently the last
one was my kids playing on my computer
and they created fart literally how it
goes but I just kept any worse and
Luke's dump yes
okay so just hit next a bunch of times
everything default is fine except when
we get here I want to save it as ping is
probably the best format high quality
give me the big ones and everything else
looks good next now I don't care next
yeah it looks good create give it a name
test ok there we go so now if I close
out of this I don't need to save that
minimize that now I've got a folder here
called tests and look at this I've got
HTML files I've got ping files I've got
some nail files so let's view this yeah
let's view this as a list let's sort by
type and let's grab all of our IMG
number files we don't want the thumbs we
just want the IMG files and create a new
folder we're going to call this photos
and then paste them and now I've got
only the ones that are IMG 0 1 2 3 and
if I click on them what do they look
like
I'm so simple our slides wasn't that
easy how did I know about this feature
before you know now like well go we have
a very 5 technology TV that's how it
goes you enter the show you go what how
did I not know that when you are
happening right now show
knowing something that you didn't know
that's our hope if you don't know now
you know that's exactly right so that's
why you're here to break it all down I'm
going to throw this on my flash drive so
stick that into my laptop here I think
there's a USB port over there somewhere
there we go okay and copy all those over
that's fine I'm going to copy that and
then on my flash drive I can push the
right buttons I'm going to create a new
folder called PPT in the PPT folder I'm
going to throw all those things so keep
in mind this is for the church lobby
this is for the business who have the
PowerPoint slideshow created but they
don't have a way to play it on the TV at
this point so they get one of these
devices and lo and behold it's going to
be amazing so those are all on that
flash drive under PPT I'm going to eject
and then I'm going to physically eject
and then simply plug in my USB flash
drive to the micro HDMI player and it's
going to start playing videos instantly
writing is ready not only because I've
got the autoplay turned on so I'm going
to have to hit back and then I'm going
to press files I'm going to browse to
that PPT folder that I created let's see
if we can find her here
TPT parallel ok ready for it folks
image 0 let er rip look at all but it is
centered instead of full oh maybe that's
oh you know what can I just try an
experiment yeah how I changed it to
1080p yes maybe we need to have it maybe
this is only outputting 720p files so I
just it's just a theory I just want to
test it let's go back to video with a
video output mode and then down to HDMI
720p 60 Hertz I just want to test that
theory folks files let's get back there
scroll everything expression off the
food go to the bottom of the list Bay
you could that would have been smart a
Robbie at the bottom second give me I'd
does a little bit bigger it does make a
difference so yes what that tells me is
that it's oh and I love the transitions
are there so what that tells me is that
it does not necessarily rescale the
images okay so you would want to create
these perhaps at the right resolution
but I want to try one more thing there's
a zoom button on my remote and there we
go okay so I can actually zoom in now on
the screen so that's the default that
zoomed in and it fits perfectly okay so
I'm just going to let that place you can
see the transitions if I've done it
right maybe when you zoom you have to
hit play again oh it's possible maybe if
you zoom it does not it pauses it okay
just thing so this is why I love live
unboxings it's fun and we learn this
stuff together so I think what you would
have to do is now change the size of
those files to fit the 720p crop so how
would we care about having the little
block but you probably do you absolutely
do and because we're a full screen oh
and because we're on linux we can we can
do this let's see okay so I'm going to
plug this back into my laptop watch this
folks
here comes the magic yeah the magic
don't kill don't kill the magic
seriously don't kill it all right okay I
wanted to actually see if ma graph eye
is installed not ma Gristedes on
Versailles yes
it's installed if you don't have my
graph I it'll say not installed and you
can install it perfect it's part of
image magic okay so I'm going to go to
media and then there must be a folder
there Robbie
128 gigabyte PPT now watch this this is
destructive I'm going to warn you so
make sure you have a backup some files
if they're critical do not run this on a
folder unless it's redundant because I'm
about to change the size of all these
images in one fell swoop ma graph I - I
believe it was now I haven't done this
in so long I'm going to try it - -
resize and we're going to do 1280 by 720
start ping who and open one and check on
the right hand side is 1024 by 576 so
it's still the old file format so what
did I so what did I do modify unable to
open image oh it's looking for the image
first maybe it's just a - resize let's
try it they're all blinking they're
blinking like they're regenerating for
sure there we go it was - resized not -
- resize okay so I know I'm doing 720p
so that's 1280 by 720 1080 P is 1920 by
1080 right keep that in mind MOG refine
now Reese cailed all these it up scaled
that's what it looks like on my computer
now eject that Drive
here I thought we were doing just one
feature we're covering like three
different things it's amazing sometimes
things come up and it's like you know
what does it really really need I know
but I love how it works that's like hey
we're going to do this and we're going
to teach you this and then this okay
thanks Jeff I've modified it there plug
it in and have to stop the video game
it's gonna autoplay right she'll yep all
right and back oh you killed nature
again
not yes there we go no it's that that's
my favorite it's one of my episodes
called green frogs on Mayor's marsh yep
and beautiful stuff if you're into
nature sounds really relaxing really
really nice okay okay you can go up yeah
good idea okay up there we go oh look at
the eyes okay look I got the bloopers
folks you don't get to see the things
that I have oh it would have been
quicker just to go down yeah what
alright PPT but unless you know it goes
up yeah oh I've got these crazy Tilda's
the backups neat okay ready image zero
perfect fit oh man and it's playing whoo
so I think we're going to get our
transitions this time yeah look at that
Wow beaut that's pro right there so
tonight we've learned about this device
we've learned how to convert a
PowerPoint slideshow into images and
then we've learned how to use modify in
order to modify the scale of these
images so that they're going to
perfectly fit the 720p or 1080p canvas
so that they display perfectly and the
transitions are provided for you so
there you go see 128 D and I was gonna
say we made see 128 be happy yeah I hope
that it makes all of your church
customers happy as well because here is
the probably the lightest weight either
way easier to install
I love Raspberry Pi okay don't get me
wrong but that is so easy to install and
if anything ever happens to it it's dirt
cheap to replace in there if there's no
moving parts no fans Shelley this has
been plugged in this whole episode I'm
just going to unplug everything from it
and I want you to tell me how hot that
is
very little any heat coming off that at
all not cooking an egg the Raspberry Pi
does generate some heat oh it feels like
it hasn't been on yeah yeah it just
feels like a and it's got a nice
aluminum kind of body here
plastic around here that's fantastic
that's great for people like I mean
you're talking about the Raspberry Pi is
great but if somebody doesn't know how
to deal with the coding side of
Raspberry Pi it can be done it's an
honor into the computer yeah this is
just it's a player you want to play
videos you want to play slideshows there
you go done
[Music]
[Applause]
