here's what's coming up in the category
five TV newsroom the Samsung Group air
arrested last year in a corruption
scandal in South Korea has been set free
that didn't take long someone has hacked
Amazon key and the lock that allows
delivery drivers to open your front door
and leave your packages inside lidar has
once again unveiled the lost city this
time with over 60,000 Mayan houses in it
Wow
UNICEF is turning to gamers in order to
raise money through cryptocurrency
mining stick around the full details are
coming up later in the show whether you
shop on ThinkGeek gearbest PNH
photo/video eBay or Amazon or even if
you want a free trial up audible you'll
find the best deals and support the
shows we produce by simply visiting the
shopping sites you already frequent by
using the links on our website visit
category-five dot TV slash partners for
the full and ever-growing list and help
us create more free content like this
show thank you for shopping with our
partners and thank you for watching this
is the category-five TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
with a slight linux bias i'm sasha
Rickman and here the top stories were
following this week a South Korean
appeals court has freed Samsung Group
heir Lee jay-yong and has reduced his
five-year jail term
dismissing a number of charges against
him in the corruption scandal Lee the
vice chairman of the Samsung Electronics
was handed a suspended sentence of 2.5
years by the Seoul High Court on Monday
after nearly a year in detention Seoul
Korea's Yonhap news agency reported the
billionaire was convicted in August last
year of bribing the country's then
president Park geun-hye with 8.2 million
dollars in return for government backing
of a business merger the 49 year old was
also found guilty of embezzlement hiding
assets overseas concealing profits from
criminal acts in perjury the case led to
months of mass protests and parks
eventual impeachment in December of 2016
a verdict in her case is expected in the
next couple of months liberal politician
moon giant was elected the new president
in May Wow
so how is the government and Samsung in
cahoots like how well how does that
happen you have to imagine like Samsung
is this massive massive company when it
comes to South Korea yes I mean one of
the biggest electronics manufacturers in
the world and will do a lot perhaps
under the table to maintain that I mean
this goes it doesn't matter what country
you're in this kind of stuff happens I
mean you look at even kids it's just
grand scale so it stands out because
like we're talking lots of money coming
in behind the scenes and being embezzled
through yes child yes so I mean there
was a lot of you know improper stuff
taking place but I mean it happens in
every kitchen mean you look like Canada
you've got these big major companies
they carry a lot of political weight
with the politicians if they go ahead
look you don't do this yeah sure we're
gonna pull out of the country I mean
look at the way that with Amazon's
second building you know how eased a lot
of yeah yeah there's like the last 20
cities that have been like shortlisted
in Toronto is the only Canadian city on
the list and so I mean Toronto's like
hey well bend over backwards any way we
can to get you here because that's huge
I mean this kind of political
interference happens worldwide but this
was on a nasty scale this is different
though because this is a case where
Samsung if you will or through through
Lee was giving money underhandedly mm-hm
- and who knows where it was going I
don't know but like - to have a massive
amount of money going through the
president's friends daughters equestrian
career right yeah yeah I guess it it
happens everywhere like but every once
in a while you get caught and it's you
yeah so so if you're embezzling billions
of dollars
do stop yeah yeah good idea that didn't
take long
someone has hacked the Amazon key the
lock that allows delivery drivers to
open your front door and leave your
packages inside the key is an
electrified lock designed to be disabled
up disabled using a one-time code a
facility that makes it possible for
delivery workers to drop stuff off at
the homes and businesses of Amazon Prime
members Prime members receive the gear
they ordered from Amazon without having
to hang around all day Amazon gets sales
it might not otherwise have made and
delivery staff get recorded by Wi-Fi
connected video camera to make sure that
they don't steal the family silver the
devices have already been shown to have
one nasty flaw when rhino security labs
found a way to flood the camera with
junk packets to stop it recording now a
hacker who calls himself mg has
demonstrated another attack on the key
which allows access to doors locked by
the key even after a delivery workers
one-time code has been used it's unclear
exactly how the exploit works but in a
video posted on M G's Twitter account we
can see it relied upon a Dropbox a
computer of some sort with Wi-Fi
connectivity that is able to control the
key the Dropbox can both unlock the key
or somehow leave amazon's device
incapable of recognizing that it's time
to lock itself again wow I that really
didn't take long yeah we were talking
about this like a conspiracy theory just
a couple of weeks ago like this could
happen right and it already has so this
was an ethical hacker yeah I believe so
I mean I would make that judgment call
because of the way he presented it so on
Twitter he showed this can be done but
then he showed how it can be done to
Amazon right right okay so yeah I can be
done and incidentally it turned out it
was the Raspberry Pi microcomputer that
he used - no way so you've seen the
Raspberry Pi it's just a little
microcomputer so but I think because of
the way he presented it to Amazon here's
how and there are
working on a fix and you know they're
they're downplaying it a little bit but
at the same time it's scary that it
already has happened have there been
critic can be happy that's true has been
criminal incidences at not yet with the
key because this is a brand new thing
yeah but I do remember a couple of years
ago what was it it was at Def Con in
2015 that one of the hackers there
showed a device that could open pretty
much any garage door oh yeah yeah yeah
and then two weeks no to two months
later or something like that somebody
who was at Def Con took that information
built their own and stole a bunch of
cars from locked garages 60 seconds
quickly just give my idea once again to
Amazon on how to fix this a good secure
like metal box it gets like drill to the
outside of a house same idea with a key
culture right but you don't enter a
house the only thing that they could get
away with if they hacked it is the thing
that was delivered exactly not access to
an entire house and we got talking about
that previously and how we used to have
the milk doors in houses and stuff open
the milk door and the milkman would put
in the milk bottles sir we have one on
the back of our house it's very clear
you go so if there was something like
that for Amazon if you were a frequent
shopper maybe it's worth your while to
install something like that in your hat
right yeah and you want to make sure
it's big enough I mean the amount of
packages I've learned from Amazon oh
you're not all just little boxes giant
boxes like this
National Geographic has reported that
laser touting archeologists have
discovered an entire Mayan city in the
Central American jungle that has been
lost for hundreds of years from the
report in what's being hailed as a major
breakthrough in Maya archaeology
researchers have identified the ruins of
more than 60,000 houses palaces
highways and other human-made features
that have been hidden for centuries
under the jungles of northern Guatemala
Wow amazing using a revolutionary
technology known as lidar short for a
light detection and ranging scholars
digitally removed this tree canopy from
aerial images of the now unpopulated
landscape revealing the ruins of a
sprawling pre-columbian civilization
that was far more complex and
interconnected than most Maya
specialists had supposed here's a New
York Times bestselling who here's New
York Times best-selling our author
Douglas Preston in an interview last
year in category five technology TV to
explain how lidar works well the radar
technology was they were using radar and
as a way to try to penetrate and see
through the jungle foliage but lidar
doesn't do that via lidar plane which
was used was brought down from the
University of Houston the National
Center for airborne laser mapping and it
has a $1,000,000 lidar machine which by
the way was built in in Toronto
thanks I mean this she Inc when flown
over the jungle a canopy fires 125,000
laser pulses a second down into the
canopy and then it measures the
reflections and the laser doesn't
penetrate anything it just bounces off
of leaf or a twig or whatever but even
in the thickest jungle there are holes
in the canopy yeah I mean if you go into
the thickest jungle and lie down on your
back and look up at the sky you will see
bits and pieces of blue sky okay but
billions and billions of laser beams
being fired into the jungle canopy um
find those holes and some of them reach
the ground bounce off the ground and
come back up and so what you get is a
what the scientists call a point cloud
which is an incredible three-dimensional
image of the rainforest with every
little reflection every pixel is a
reflection off of leaf or twig okay and
then using software you can remove all
those reflections from the trees leaving
just the ground reflections and voila
there you have a map of the ground in
quite high-res
the resolution is about 1 meter with
this more recent expedition Thomas
Garrison an ethical college archeologist
and National Geographic Explorer who
specializes in using digital technology
for archaeological research says the
lidar images make it clear that this
entire region was a settlement system
with whose scale and population density
have been grossly underestimated
garrison is part of a consortium of
researchers who are participating in the
project which was spearheaded by the
Pakenham Foundation a Guatemalan
nonprofit that fosters scientific
research sustainable development and
cultural heritage preservation the
project mapped more than eight hundred
square miles of the Mayan biosphere
reserve in Guatemala producing the
largest lidar data set set ever obtained
for archeological research ok I love
this story for two reasons one I spent
an entire summer in Guatemala oh yeah so
Guatemala is very near and dear to my
heart I did visit a lot of the ruins I
did a lot of humanitarian work there
between grade 9 and grade 10 so we're
talking many many years ago but to this
day I still think about Guatemala
anytime there's a story about Guatemala
it it's like it's it's like I said it's
near and dear to my heart but also
because it's lidar that what the
interview we did but the lost city of
the monkey god yeah we're light our
technology was used at another situation
that is by far the best interview I
think we've ever done I think about it
all the time I love the book I love the
concept of it I see lidar in the news
and I'm like so this story just I mean
gets my juices flowing it's so cool I
love it in that interview so you can go
to our website category 5tb search for
lidar Li dar and in that interview he
talked about some of the other uses for
lidar mm-hmm and it's interesting to
know how this works and realizing it's
being used for autonomous vehicles so
that they can detect where cars are and
things like that so there are other uses
for it as well but being able to see
from an airplane down into the
Guatemalan jungle and find something
like that like that is HUGE oh it's it's
amazing and I mean
I can't wait to see over the next 10 15
20 years how many other lost
civilizations or series of new
information we get about various
civilizations that have been lost to us
where we going this has rewritten the
book like I think it's so cool I I know
I get excited about technology but for
some reason this one is just like I love
it one questions coming is that
wondering if lidar can be used to see
through the ruins into like things like
buried treasure and I believe that the
that it's only possible to see the
topography and those kinds of things
like it Maps the topography but not it
doesn't go through things now leave the
other is a different thing altogether
yeah it's it's you know it's well you're
when you're in the trees and you look up
you can see some sky so it's come a B
that's it it's like triangulating
through the leaves well yeah because I
mean like the whole lidar it's sending
like millions of laser signals at
different angles as the plane flies over
helicopter whatever they they're using
but it is a good question about like
underneath the ground because I'm
thinking what's buried in like the
Sahara Desert that we don't know about
and could we find something there so
it'd be interesting to see if lidar
technology or some version thereof can
advanced to the point where you are able
to see through it well if if lidar was
to be combined with other technologies
great technologies and so that when
something is found now all of a sudden
it can go right into the ground and take
a take a image of inside the ground I
have no idea if that's possible in my
mind it's possible because I've seen a
lot of sci-fi what is that here we are
in the world and there's still so many
undiscovered places yeah absolutely
to think that it's been undiscovered but
yet is so obviously built up it's huge
huge very cool it was just October when
the co-founder of UNICEF ventures Chris
Fabian said the company would not shy
away from experimenting with
cryptocurrency and the surrounding Tech
and now UNICEF is asking gamers to
install mining software to raise money
to help
Syrian children UNICEF has launched game
changers in an effort to bring together
gamers from across the globe and to have
them unite their computing power for a
good cause the promo says to participate
in this operation all you need to do is
install claim or a mining software the
game changers website reads you'll be
able to start or stop mining when you
want and generate a theory am right in
UNICEF's electronic wallet game changers
mining efforts will continue until March
31st and you could find out more by
visiting changers dot IO that's changers
spelled CH a ing e.r.s that's cool and
it reminds me of what we are currently
yes as well here at category-five TV
because we have that capability as well
now where you can put our wallet in with
claymore or another mining software and
be contributing to us so for now do
UNICEF and then when they're done on
March 31st and come back and change the
the wallet ID to it to ours mm-hmm I
think it's a great cause and at first
when I heard this I'm going why would
you put an end to it why wouldn't you
just keep going but by having an end
date it kind of to certain degree
creates a bit of a psychological agency
it's like well I got to do this now
because I want to have it in by March
31st so there's more likely to be a
greater uptake on gamers putting that
processing power into it but knowing how
difficult it is to mine a single coin
yep a single aetherium coin for example
even the blocks thereof wouldn't it make
sense to just say you know for the next
year because then we might end up with
something I I don't I don't know yet I'm
very curious as things grow with our
cryptocurrency accounts how how long
does it take to actually I can't imagine
that in one month you're gonna see a lot
of currency if generate a video game if
it's a video game that makes this happen
no it's like it's claimed or okay but a
video gaming computer like which is more
powerful yeah that's why
and the question comes in and I saw this
question I'm sorry I didn't catch the
name it just flashed by just before the
show but well could you use older
hardware to do this so that we could
support category 5 and the fact is is
it's very GPU intensive so not CPU but
GPU so that graphics processor the 1070
that you put in your gaming computer
that's what you need if you have a
Raspberry Pi I'm sorry it's not gonna
work even if you stack 200 of them
together
there's no GPU power there so you're
just not gonna be able to mine anything
it's just gonna sit there running all
the time and never get any currency so
if you have a gaming computer that's
we're now installing claymoore or
another mining application putting in
the wallet ID and then generating
currency through the GPU while it's
otherwise doing nothing mmm that's
what's cool about it and that's what
they mean by hey you can turn it off
when you're when I want to use the
computer I don't want it doing stuff
with my GPU because right that's gonna
slow things down so I'll turn that off
and then do my thing and then turn it
back on again yep and that's gonna
generate revenue for UNICEF category 5
or however you're gonna do it so cool
stuff you got a gaming computer get out
there how about UNICEF all right
big thanks this week - Roy W - in the
Albuquerque turkey in our community of
yours for submitting stories to us this
week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news for the slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our web site from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Jeff Weston and I'm Robbie
Ferguson I am Sasha Rickman
[Music]
[Applause]
