welcome back this is category five
technology TV we've all heard of the
Raspberry Pi but there are other single
board computers out there so you ready
to take a look I certainly a.m.
alright so tonight we're gonna unbox the
pine 64 LTS now I've got kind of the kit
here I've got my trusty ruler so that we
can measure everything all right let's
get right into it this is now LTS in
this case for the pine a 64 LT s stands
for long-term supply that means that
they're gonna support this thing and
continue manufacturing it until at least
2020 where do I start
okay first of all let's get right into
the box of the pine sixty-four LTS there
it is the first thing that is
immediately striking about this board is
that it is significantly larger form
factor than than the Raspberry Pi that
we're used to let's get in here
there it is
so this is the pine a 64 LTS and it has
an all winner r18 quad core ARM Cortex
the 853 that's a 64-bit processor and
that allows it to have two gigabytes of
lpddr3 RAM so it's got about well twice
as much memory as a Raspberry Pi so
presumably we're able to do quite a bit
more as well it has a built in SPI boot
flash it's 128 Meg's and it's also got
some really great capabilities here that
we don't see on some of the smaller
SBC's first of all I'm going to flip
this over now we do have what looks like
the SD card reader here and that's about
it on this side over here we have I hope
you can see that all right that's an e
MMC input for a module of up to 128
gigabytes so that is essentially so if
you're used to single board computers
where you've got a SD card we know
that SD cards are not overly reliable
and they do eventually basically fry
themselves and you'll lose the the data
that's on them and that's part of SBC's
we know that SD cars cards are not that
reliable so we tend to have a backup and
be able to replace them on the fly
now emmc on the other hand it's a solid
state hard drive and it's quite a bit
more reliable and significantly faster
so this has that capability unlike the
Raspberry Pi but similar to the old roid
xu4 for example you can boot from either
or so you can boot from either the emmc
or the SD card which is beautiful you
can put the OS on there and you can
choose which one you want to use now if
you are a maker you're gonna notice that
it does have GPIO so it's got the PI 2
GPIO bus Euler GPIO bus and it's got
connections for other peripherals as
well
lots of interfaces like you are SPI i2c
so if you're a maker that you want to
you know you want to integrate some
sensors into this board or other
peripheral devices you can do that so
it's a perfect maker board it's gonna
get you up and going real good so this
one comes with a one-year warranty looks
great now I don't see a USB input for
power do you notice that but what I do
see is a barrel connector so I assume
that this guy over here is gonna be what
we're looking for so it is a 5 volt
board and this should be let's see we've
got a 5 volt 3 amp so 5 volt 3 amps and
it has the the barrel connector this is
a 3.5 OD over 1.35 IV barrel type or one
of the other there you go so just like
that so it's a barrel connector anyways
not a standard USB micro or anything
like that so you will need a separate
power supply for this particular SPC and
you notice again it's quite a bit larger
than a traditional SBC which might be
about half the size but we've got a case
for it so let's take a look at that
first of all I say it's larger let's
give the measurements here so we've got
three inches you see that okay sash hey
Ken
perfect three-point three inches and two
maybe three millimeters and this way
we've got five inches right on the money
so there you have it let's see what
we've got here
ooh they look like triple-a batteries
these look like like a type of riser oh
I'm excited about that that looks nice
okay let's get a look at what they've
got here
so we've got some PVC oh and it's got
the pine a 64 logo they're nice and
simple now it is it looks like it's
quite open-concept there you go so
that's going to screw so we've got a
couple of screws here I'm not gonna
actually assemble this but you can use
your imagining and you see that these
four screws will hold this onto the
riser plate and then the risers that we
have here that look like triple-a
batteries and they're about the same
size as a triple-a battery they're going
to give us a rise on that board as well
about this high so you're gonna have a
lot of airflow but a lot of potential
deaths getting in there as well so keep
that in mind you're gonna want to keep
that clean that looks good
okay now other peripherals that you
might need for your pine a64 LTS first
of all if you want to have Wi-Fi it does
support it but you're gonna have to get
a separate module and that looks a
little something-something like this
there we go and I guess that just snaps
right on here somewhere
let's see there we go and then just like
that it has Wi-Fi well that that is
Wi-Fi now and then I guess this is just
the antenna so we can stick that on
there and then yes you've got a Wi-Fi
controller built-in next up I've got a
16 gigabyte I mentioned the emmc
capabilities of this board
I love emmc in comparison to a SD cards
it's more reliable significantly faster
and that's all there is to it so it
looks roughly the size of a small SD
card but it's going to just simply snap
onto the board just like so so you just
place it on top find the spot and snap
it on and now that is a 16 gigabyte hard
drive on that mainboard perfect we've
got a heatsink for the CPU and just in
case I want to flash my own OS on there
let's say I want to put names Linna
sonot or I want to put a different
district Linux or Android or Windows or
whatever I want to put on there they've
included this extra peripheral which
you're probably going to have to buy
separately now we've been sent this by
pints a pint sixty four to two review
but this is a emmc USB adapter so now I
can just simply plug this into the
adapter and plug that into my computer
and be able to flash any OS on to that
that's compatible with this board
so speaking of compatible Oh asses now
this carries the a sixty-four markings
and it is the a 64 LTS so you might
presume that an a 64 plus OS will run on
this and that is not the case this will
run any of the so pine platform os's
and that is due to the to the RAM
configuration of this particular board
so that means that the a 64 plus
distributions of Linux or whatever it is
that you want to install will not run on
this board even though it carries the a
64 marking okay so you need the so pine
versions of those OS is so that's any of
the builds that are available on the so
pine platform so there you have it
I can't wait to fire that up I love
unboxings they're absolutely my favorite
favorite episodes
I love the single board computers and
how there are other brands that are
really on the rise the a 64
LTS is something that I'm really excited
about
[Music]
[Applause]
