okay welcome back to another episode of
new everyday my name is Carrie and my
name is Jen and on today's show we're
going to talk about part 2 of come and
follow me and I will make you fishers of
men but how much does it cost to catch a
fish
you
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat five dot TV / Linda okay
welcome back again and we're just going
to jump right back in last week we
talked about the verse Matthew 4 verse
19 when Jesus has come follow me and I
will make you fishers of men he was
calling his first disciples so he was
beginning his ministry he saw Andrew and
Peter in the boat and then he saw James
and John in the boat with their father
he says to them come and follow me and I
will make you fishers of men they
immediately dropped their nets yeah they
leave their family yes and they follow
Jesus yes so what's up for today jenn
well and that's what we want to talk
about is the cost of the come right
Jesus invites them to come but whenever
you choose to follow something or do
something there's always a cost well
because you have to leave something else
so if I chose to skip work and hang out
with you for the day which would be
great it would be great she's great I
would be gaining because I get to spend
time with you but there would be a cost
because you can lose your job so any
time you choose to follow something you
are considering leaving something at the
same time I took yes and so today we're
going to talk about the cost of catching
the fish or the cost of saying yes to
Jesus and what you said was so clear was
so very right to the point they left
their families hmmm like assignment and
Peter were with we're in the boat and
they left their nets
Andrew yes Peter and Andrew so we're not
really sure what kind of family life
they had but in the next part it goes on
to say Jesus continued walking down Lake
Galilee and he saw two other brothers
James and John the sons of Zebedee so
they actually have like he's filming
some context here right there they have
family they were in the boat with their
father Zebedee mending their nets and
Jesus told him to come and follow him
and immediately laid off the boat and
their father and followed him and we
were talking about this earlier how they
left the boat so they're leaving their
livelihood they left their father so
their family yes and they the two
brothers they likely would have had just
taken over their family's business right
the boat right because then they would
also be responsible for caring for their
family in in their parents old age yes
so it says I don't know if they had
other brothers or not but it says they
left the father with the hired hands so
maybe there was no other sons and then
really you don't hear anything about
their family in the future except when
their mother comes and asked Jesus a
question yes but it's very very
interesting what they had to give up and
there is a cost for following Christ and
jen i read a blog this morning by jeff
Bethke and it was about how the
traditional call of the Christian Church
kind of sets a stage where maybe there's
a certain emotional feeling going on
that you're called to come to the altar
to say a prayer and ask Jesus into your
heart so it's it's like this intangible
thing they don't really necessarily talk
about the cost of being rushed in right
right away and I don't know the the blog
headed a certain feel about it that
he wasn't necessarily saying that this
is bad because people do come to Christ
that way you know I came to Christ
initially just saying a prayer because I
believe the things that were in the
prayer that Jesus came that he died that
he rose again that he loves and forgives
me so that's not necessarily bad but he
was saying that Christians today don't
have a full understanding at least in
the West right of the cost of coming to
Christ right because often in our
families I know my family when I came to
Christ there was no cost it was like
okay great join the club yeah like there
was in my mind no cost it wasn't until I
got much older and had to then walk out
my faith on my own that all of a sudden
I'm like oh so when I'm with my friends
at school and I have a choice to you
know to do what Jesus would normally ask
me to do or to go and you know party or
skip school or whatever what am I going
to do there was a cost am I going to do
what the right thing is be honorable or
am I gonna you know disobeyed my parents
skip out on school be disrespect to be
disrespecting the people God has placed
in my life to teach me right you know it
begins that easy at home like if your
parents are serving Jesus the cost is so
small relatively speaking relatively
yeah and then all of a sudden you get
out into the world where they don't have
the same mindset they don't have the
same leaf setting up belief systems and
then you might even be inside the church
and you feel like God is saying no I
want you to do this and that are you
sure about that oh I don't know if we
can afford that I'm not are you sure you
do you realize how many people that you
know God that we would need to
accomplish that task and all of a sudden
you start feeling the pressure like okay
am I willing to actually stick my neck
out here say no I believe this is what
God has really called me to do or do we
sort of back away we're not willing to
fall full-on for Christ's so
we I find sometimes as I've gotten older
the cost seems to becoming more and more
like am I willing to to say yes to
Christ at the cost of no to other things
when I left my previous work and I
didn't have a job to go to right I just
left and yet people said what are you
going to do where you were you going
like I don't know Jesus just said go and
but this is the cool thing about Jesus I
said Lord you have me here in Canada
like I live in the middle of nowhere do
I need a place to stay that has heat and
I need a car to get around and I need
food to eat those are the three things
that I need to actually live where you
have placed me and wow did the Lord meet
those needs so I did not have an income
coming in I did not accept unemployment
insurance because in my mind you had to
be out looking for a job like I actually
read the speculations for to gain
unemployment insurance so and I wasn't
sick so I just genuinely was waiting for
God to tell me the next thing to do and
I'm like okay how are you gonna do this
but that was the cost of following him I
had to be willing to forget about my job
and then he called me to England I'm
like well that means leaving my family
behind right and I'm like okay Lord and
I sat down across from my mom my mom mom
I need you to release me and after you
know and she eventually released me but
I had to be willing to leave my family
right go to a place where nobody knew
who I was yeah um now it was a
discipleship school but I still had to
go by myself and it was just one of
those moments where am I willing to
leave my family am I willing to leave my
livelihood right you know my circle of
friends and a source of income I went
without money like I had no savings but
like I managed to I managed
the Lord managed to provide for all of
my needs including two missions trips
and I just sort of go he just took care
of idiot and he took care of the details
because I was willing to go great so so
in that sense I've had you know when we
talk about counting the cost are you
willing to say no to security are you
willing to say no to that job are you
willing to say no to those friends that
are like oh no we want to party later
and you're like no I need to get up
tomorrow morning because I'm actually
teaching Sunday School you know or I
want to be you know I want to spend time
in my in the Bible every morning and
that means I can't stay up late every
night like that's a cost like we said if
you choose every decision always has
something that you cannot do you can't
as my dad would say you cannot have your
cake and eat it too you can't hold on to
something and eat it and expect it to be
there that's what it means that's what
that saying means hmm light bulb moment
light bulb so yes that whole idea of
counting the cost was it actually going
to cost you to serve the Lord and if
Jesus says take up your cross and follow
me what does that really look like yeah
I just finished a book it's called
seeking Allah finding Jesus and it's by
Nabeel Qureshi and nabeel he was Muslim
and he became a medical doctor and
through his time through University he
became friends with a guy named David
and David was a Christian and David was
evangelizing hmm Nabil meanwhile Nabil
was trying to evangelize David and
trying to bring him to Islam interesting
it was it's a very interesting read I
highly recommend it spoiler alert as you
would say gin he does come to Christ
because that's finding Jesus but he
talks about the cost for a Muslim to
leave the faith also means that they are
disowning their family
because there's that the religion and
the the culture of Middle Eastern
culture is is highly dependent on shame
and honor so you bring honor to your
family by practicing your faith
accordingly right so if you turn from
your faith you're also dishonouring your
family and a lot of Muslims who have
turned to Christ have actually lost
their lives and in this case nabeel's
family kind of turned away from him for
a while he does talk about how God kind
of renewed the relationship but then
it's been rocky but he when he was
deciding finally when he looked at all
the evidence that David and other
scholars had presented in the research
that he had done into the life of
Muhammad what the what Islam actually is
founded upon and the claims of Christ he
knew that in making that decision what
it would cost him and so it was so hard
and it was a process over a number of
months after he finally concluded God
spoke to him in a number of ways
including dreams and visions he knew
that it was right but he couldn't just
jump on board because he counted the
cost and eventually obviously he did
decide to come to Christ but I do
recommend it actually if you want to get
the book you can go on to our website
new everyday TV click our partners page
go to Amazon and you can actually order
the book on Amazon and then some of the
proceeds from that will actually go to
supporting this show so excellent read
but really opened my eyes to what it
costs some people right to follow Christ
and Jesus says himself that we must deny
ourselves pick up our cross and follow
him like that's that's part of the
process we have to be willing to say no
to those things that we think are so
important or think that we can't live
without deny ourselves and pick up the
cross like it's I set it at church on
Sunday being a Christian is not easy in
fact
it's going to get harder for the most
part because you're going against the
flow right it's like paddling upstream
against um you know 40 40 mile an hour
wind and this past summer I went
kayaking with my friend Rebecca and we
had we decided we were going to go all
the way around the lake it was a
beautiful day perfect for kayaking and
so we get all the way down to the lake
and write the very farthest tip and we
turn and we're like wow the wind ever
pick up and so we were going against the
wind oh yes you're going again like if
we stopped paddling for a moment the
wind and the waves caught us and would
push us back and we're like we are at
the other end of the lake like beyond
Turtle Island yeah far so carrie has
gone kayaking with me at camp before so
we were like way down and I'm thinking
how are we ever going to get back but
that's what you know it can be so
overwhelming when you're in the midst of
it would have been so much easier to
just pull the kayak paddle yeah and just
go to the you know get on the edge of
the shore and just walk back it would
have been so much easier and yet part of
me says that's giving up that's not what
I set out to do I did not set out to
walk my canoe my kayak back um so I'm
just okay Lord you're gonna have to help
us and literally it was like you know
well I guess this is cut this is
canoeing it was like and I but instead
of this it was like laying literally
pulling it but then you're stronger for
it exactly yeah and so we got around
Turtle Island we got back up to camp and
made it in time for breakfast but I'm so
glad that I persevered through it cuz
now i'm like you're right you are
stronger for it and so in those moments
of surrender where we think I can't
possibly do this you gotta surrender to
the Lord say I can't do this so you're
going to have to help me you're going to
have to help me deny myself pick up your
cross pick up my cross and follow you
because I can't do it on my own I think
that's part of what the problem is we
think we have to do
on our own but if Jesus has come and I
will make you fishers of men that means
he's traveling with us through the whole
thing so he's going to give us a
strength that we need right to deny
ourselves he knows what we need just
like he knew that I needed gas for my
car he knew I needed a place to live and
he knew that I needed food to eat I
never you know unless I wanted to I
never missed a meal my get my car always
had gas in it and I was never cold like
like God totally met my needs all along
the way because I surrendered it to him
and said ok if this is what you're
calling me to you're gonna have to help
yes like and he did and so even though
it can feel like so tough Jesus is right
there along every step of the way giving
us the strength that we need to
provision that we need the love that we
need cuz maybe he's calling us to love a
person and you're just like oh is that
Mike Ross really Lord is that Mike Ross
that I have to love this person at work
who makes fun of me or it's just so
difficult really is that Mike Ross today
Oh could you not give me something else
and Jesus is like that's what I'm asking
you to do and I'm not asking you to do
it on your own would you invite me into
that situation and let me do a miracle
yeah that is part of the costs are we
willing to actually let go and let God
do it and sometimes the miracle is not
that you see someone else transformed is
that he transforms you yeah as you
follow him as you spend time in his word
and reading about how to love people he
says a new command I give you that you
love one another he says that in John
yeah so he will equip you to do it and
then you see the change in yourself yes
um that only love can transform a heart
yes and only the love of Christ can
transform your heart and help you to
have a new perspective of other people I
was sharing about this book actually
with someone I work with and she said
you know Carrie I really have a hard
time loving and people of it of of a
faith like Islam that you know in the
past has a history of being violent
towards other Christians
right just I just I just don't know what
to do I just really don't I can't muster
up any kind of love towards them and I
said that is like that's the miracle of
what Jesus does is that he can as we
pray and ask him to give us love for
someone else to give us understanding of
them and where they're coming from he
does it and it's crazy us is crazy yeah
so try it I just I just implore you to
ask God to say what are you calling me
to do who are you calling me to love ya
and listen and read the word and see
what Holy Spirit tells you maybe start
in your journal to write down some
things that you feel that he's asking
you to do asking you to love maybe it's
to start giving some money to an
organization that helps support people
who are trying to evangelize um and go
from there and see see what he does yeah
so when we talk about the cost of
catching a fish it really is everything
Jesus asks for our everything and when
he says come follow me that whole idea
is deny yourself pick up your cross and
follow me it means you are giving your
everything to what he is asking you to
do he asks you to do something are you
willing you willing to do it it says
that they will know like you said that
you are my disciples because of the way
that you love so as we follow him more
we should be becoming more loving yes we
should be yes yeah and the other day I
was with a family member and just did
not feel like I wanted to care for them
right and it was shocking like is that
my real self but then I reminded that's
my old self my new self is being renewed
in His image and being renewed to love
like Christ right and so we you know God
can enable you to let your passenger
your past and move on I agree so yay God
yay God so the great thing is that the
cost of catching fish costs us
everything but Jesus gives us
everything he or he already laid down
everything yes and shall we pray let's
do it Lord God thank you so much that
you call us and then you call us to lay
down everything actually that we might
truly experience everything and so
father we ask in your name that you
would reveal to us those times where you
have called us and we haven't responded
and secondly that you would reveal to us
what things are that we aren't laying
down those things that were you are
holding to so tight that we think that
we cannot do without and so father would
you convict us of that as well where we
want to grow closer to you we as Kerry
says that is the old self that that says
no because we are being made new in your
image so father help us to say yes to
you and believe that you really will
help us to lay these things down and
then you will really provide for all we
need according to your glorious riches
in christ jesus thank you for that hope
you are awesome and your name we pray
amen amen thanks for tuning in again we
do encourage you to go to our website
click on our partners page check out all
of our amazing partners who help make
this show possible including category 5
TV and Robbie Ferguson our Directorate
producer who edits the show and makes
this happen if you want to check out on
our partners page Dollar Shave Club and
they send you fancy pants razors for
cheap once a month at a time
it's only a dollar and so it's gonna
come and help you shape once a month
okay no that's not it but check it out
there's other great partners there and
we just look forward to seeing you next
week new everyday TV hope you have an
awesome week oh yeah yeah cheers cheers
Cheers
