here we are guys we are in probably the
best room in the entire VR conference
we're in the game arcade right and what
what do you guys have for us today here
well part of the game arcade is this
game called paper dude which is a
old-school revival of a I guess the 90s
game called paperboy
so we've rebuilt it using using virtual
reality and we have people sitting on a
bike and they're fully immersed as they
pedal they're moving forward and they're
using their arms to throw newspapers
inside mailboxes so basically it's our
homage to this old classic that's that's
amazing he's not wearing a helmet right
now so is it considered safe it's pretty
safe although it is pretty immersive
okay that's amazing so what what company
do you guys come from so like what do
you guys do at your studio like who are
you guys sure so we're a company called
Global core and we do a lot of
interactive installations and usually
they're featured inside exhibits at
conferences or at trade shows and
museums here it's awesome it's so like
what what do you guys see in VR moving
forward like do you see a lot in gaming
do you see like more interactive
storytelling what what do you personally
see in VR in the future I see a lot more
social like a lot more people in the
yard like inside of the experience
together so yeah a lot more like what
more like multiplayer kind of scenarios
that's awesome so like a more social
aspect into it right um so I could you
kind of cap off today before he gets too
tired here what's what's your favorite
experience so far in VR that you firstly
had like in the entire VR realm I've
been really into interactive
documentaries so there's a few that are
out for the Samsung gear they're pretty
good and yeah awesome I'm going to ask
you one more question
um so today we kind of have like a set
up with him riding on the bike so how is
this working I see you have an HTC vive
here you have some sensors behind me so
how is this kind of setup working right
now for you guys so right now we're
using the HTC volume just to reset it
and we're using the hand trackers so
these are trackers that are eventually
going to come with the vibe that allows
you to kind of put them on you know
different objects like for instance
these gloves so instead of holding the
vibe controllers we're allowing you to
still be able to hold on to the handle
bar and it just kind of becomes a little
bit you know a little bit more fun a
little bit more immersive yeah that's
awesome does does he get bonus points
for hitting me in the head
no okay no okay thanks okay thank you so
much guys
that is some really really cool tech and
it's really amazing to see such a such a
while implementation with it it looks
really cool so I can become believers
now oh my gosh oh so weird okay also
kind of like Rufus droppings earth you
know you told me about okay so that
you're like a sector like I think it all
right there and I can go like that and I
like my little safety zone here yeah
it's very fun unless I go cool I just
start piping with it go
yes oh my god you mean oh that is weird
so all these like different mailboxes I
have to like me out yes oh man
oh my god oh my gosh you can't oppose
diggin the goodness pepper powder yeah
did you do this instead of like your own
trims on your side the boys pick your
favorites
[Applause]
it's like the hardest shorty oh my gosh
oh my gosh I have a new respect for
olestra did the sense I get back
officially oh my gosh Pete over here
man that is cool and here we are yeah
[Music]
