it's Tuesday March 24th 2015 and hear
stories recovering this week facebook is
getting into the hosting game the worst
case scenario for linux users could be
on the horizon as Microsoft tries to
push hardware manufacturers to make
secure boot mandatory in time for
Windows 10 locking out other operating
systems twitch users are being told to
change passwords and mid hack fears
imagine tracking I imagine a tracking
device tiny enough to a fix to Abby it's
a real thing and it's being tested in
England hackers can use heat to steal
your data and these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere how would you
like to have cheap web hosting we've got
some for you go to cat five dot TV /
dreamhost use the coupon code cat five
TV and when you do for only seventy
dollars you're going to get a free
registration for your domain as well as
unlimited web site hosting and unlimited
email accounts amidst other things go to
cat five dot TV / dreamhost and remember
on checkout use the coupon code cat five
TV to take advantage of this offer back
to the newsroom Sasha I'm Sam victories
and here are the top stories from the
category 5 TV news room
early this year is Facebook lyst touting
its incredible growth as a video hosting
provider speculation began to mount that
Facebook would look to host content
beyond video would Facebook get
publishers to let it hosts their
articles it appears that such a plan is
now in motion the New York Times is
reporting that itself as well as
BuzzFeed National Geographic and others
are joining Facebook and testing a new
format that will see content hosted
inside a facebook so users won't have to
go to an external site the tests will
occur in the next several months the
idea behind this is that it takes too
long to go to an outside website and
wait for the page to load this content
could load faster particularly on on
mobile if Facebook just hosted it itself
that makes sense to me to be honest
Robbie because I will sometimes click an
article and let it try and load for
maybe two and a half seconds and then
I'm like oh I know no true cleaners it
was so impatient the society first of
all your show tonight is sponsored by a
web host so we have to tread carefully
the answer is no you would not host with
Facebook bad idea yeah but ya know I can
see just like the infrastructure of you
know of the way that the internet works
if you had it hosted on facebook it
would come up faster I mean you click on
a message or something that has been
posted and it's instant right but then
you click on an external link and it
takes forever yeah on the facebook app
why don't they instead take the approach
of building some kind of a proxy service
or something that free loads content for
links that have been shared on the
facebook platform oh that makes sense
that would be kind of good or you know
those kinds of technologies exist that
they could be doing more to to improve
the performance without I'm is their app
right yeah they want they want control
of everything no I control why wouldn't
they want control really mm-hmm
microsoft unveiled new information about
Windows 10 at its win heck conference in
china on friday and the news is deep
Lee concerning to anyone who values the
ability to run non Microsoft operating
systems like Windows 8 Windows 10 will
ship with support for the UEFI secure
boot standard but this time the off
switch which was previously mandatory is
now optional so that's bad news for
Linux secure boot is meant to protect
pcs from certain types of mal well
malware that are typically loaded before
the OS boot process has begun with
secure boot active the UEFI checks the
signature of any program that it's told
to look told to load including the OS
bootloader while multiple Linux distros
support the capability the problem is
Microsoft mandates that secure boot
ships enabled this causes this cause
panic in the open source community back
in 2011 because if an alternative OS
bootloader isn't signed with an
appropriate key on a secure boot enabled
system the UEFI will refuse to boot
drive Microsoft diffused the situation
back then by mandating that all x86
systems ship with the ability to disable
secure boot with windows 10 the
situation is changing those who build
their own desktops will be will retain
the ability to disable secure boot since
the manufacturer doesn't know what kind
of operating system you're going to load
on the board but laptops are a different
story some laptop vendors will
undoubtedly continue to ship a disabled
option on secure boot but vendors may
simply decide that closing the attack
vector is more important than user
freedom particularly when the margin on
PCs is so low to begin with support
calls cost money so eliminating the need
for such interaction is extremely
attractive but sad really right Robbie
like yeah I guess that's the driving
factory I mean money is really what it
boils down to it if you go into a
supercenter and buy a two-hundred-dollar
laptop any and they have to kind of
include support to some degree even if
it's not
I don't know I guess you kinda you have
to be able to pick up the phone and
contact the company so does that mean
that the safe for somebody who really
wants Linux right yeah I would have to
then build your own system that's kind
of what about that's the impression like
I wonder if we're taking this transition
if this happens back toward thinking of
the early days of mac for example where
there was Mac hardware and there was PC
hardware and PC being it could have been
UNIX it could have been Linux could have
been glauren it could have been windows
whatever you were running ms-dos dr. das
or whatever and QE mmm 386 are cute you
know all these I love reminiscing but
would we be transitioning now to windows
hardware so that now if I want to buy a
laptop there's a windows laptop and
there's an open laptop that is you know
i can install whatever LS I want on it
but you won't necessarily be able to
walk into a supercenter and get one for
200 bucks anymore right you have to buy
it some other place like either a
specialty store which means what to me
as a consumer more money yeah so I'm not
gonna save the money quite quite
possibly we'll make it work we'll make
it work will hack the firmware we will
hack the firm of them right here and
show you how it's done exactly if it can
be done it will be done then the
conversation becomes like I start
thinking what if for example we were to
sign up with verisign and get a
cryptographic signature for UEFI for
grub the bootloader that pretty much
every linux distribution use as well
that's that's putting in general but a
lot of big linux distros use grub the
bootloader so if they had a signature
couldn't you then distribute that
version of grub with signature but then
it comes down to well how secure is that
now because then wouldn't every hacker
create their exploits to use grub right
for example so there's there's this
really so that's why it's like okay so
how much power we giving Microsoft in
this particular thing how much control
does that give them over the hardware
it stores are able to sell because
stores simply won't probably carry Linux
laptops right there going to be windows
laptops knowing that someone may install
an ex but if that is taken away from us
the consumer it's more than just a
freedom thing it's the monopoly yeah its
monopoly is what it looks like hey well
here we have it users of the Amazon
owned video game streaming service
twitch have been instructed to change
their passwords amid fears the site has
been hacked twitch told users that their
names and phone numbers were among the
details fear to have been leaked it said
it had deleted passwords which were
encrypted and disconnected users
accounts from Twitter and YouTube but
the site came in for criticism after it
appeared to condone user setting week
replacement passwords after complaints
for some users that the minimum
requirement for replacement passwords
was too restrictive twitch lowered its
threshold required only eight digit
password no you don't give it you could
use no password pin 12345678 becomes a
legitimate password under these rules
wow that's not fat obviously prompted
criticism from security experts even
faction switch did not directly admit
that it had been hacked instead they
simply said there may have been on a
thrived access to some twitch user
account information well twitch goodness
gracious passwords why would we give the
end users control over the security have
you hard why do they yeah why do we
create restrictive passwords in the
first place for your safety so here's
what happened in my and how I understand
it so it was hacked so no no no they
have not ran that but they had to change
your passwords because of the security
intrusion is that what happened and then
people had to read
submit new passwords just up until now
it's been they've allowed only an eight
character password with low security Wow
and so if that makes it pretty easy to
brute force I think and services like
that who's watching the brute force logs
to make sure that someone's not trying
to guess your password would you know
would you know if someone was sitting
there using your facebook login and
trying to guess your password would you
know no you wouldn't know that you
wouldn't know that except in certain
programs I know my my blog it locks
people out after a certain amount of
password it sure does it does but my
Facebook doesn't Yeah right how is it
that we are more secure than Facebook oh
here's the best story no way yeah
there's more there's more a tiny new
tracker designed to monitor be behaviors
being tested by ecologist at Kew Gardens
in London it is made from off-the-shelf
technology it is based on equipment used
to track pallets and warehouses readers
used to pick up a signal are connected
to raspberry pi computers which log
readings the device has a reach of just
2.5 meters which is a huge improvement
over the previous generation which
ranged only one centimeter whoa crazy
small one centimeter is like the length
of the actual antenna on that be yes
really the tracker consists of a
standard RFID chip and a specifically
designed antenna which is thinner and
lighter than other models used to track
small insects which allows them to boost
the range the idea is to have readers
dotted around a hive and flower patch in
order to track the signals as the bees
move around freely in the wild the
engineer who is a technical director at
the newcastle-based tech firm tumbling
dice is currently trying to patent the
invention I love this I love though I
asked you earlier it's worker bees
they're putting these antennae on yes
not disrupting yeah you look at that
antenna you think the poor mating be who
gets jabbed through the heart exactly
all senator
praying mantis or something no nothing
like that these are worker bees so
they're not mating but they actually
glue these with some kind of crazy glue
or something takes they're probably just
like swaps off at some point right I
wonder if yeah but doesn't seem to harm
them it doesn't affect their flight it's
it's lightweight enough that they're
still able to go about their business
yeah there's no business it looks like
the worker bees have a new uniform is
that not like if they can make stuff I
know that this is only a what did you
say to meter yes range yeah so could it
not be used like if they I think of a
shopping mall we talked about shopping
mall and security of the cameras and
stuff it would you could place enough
rfid scanners to pick up anything within
a two meter radius no matter where you
are in that mall so for tracking and
stuff is it for stuff like that er
that's good you just take that into a
dark place I do that what just happened
I just I picture a bee and I and little
tiny cameras on in them and my the NSA
with a remote cannot slippery slope I'm
sorry I'm sorry but did you see this
thing I love this idea only because
there's such a problem right now with
bees dying off right there's and bees
are in charge of what we eat we are only
eating because of bees and their ability
to pollinate I saw the cartoon I know
it's true I believe it's true I didn't
see the cartoon but I think that I that
these are in charge of you know almonds
that's important yeah so if we can use
them and track what's going on with
their daily lives and find a way to make
them live longer and stop dying off in
such large wall those antennae might not
help them for longevity just realized
okay if it can be used for good it might
be done that and certainly that's what
they're doing exactly we just not for
good though here researchers have
discovered a new method to breach
air-gapped computer systems called bit
whisper which enables two-way
communications between adjacent
unconnected pc computers using heat
bit whisper bridges the air gap between
the two computers approximately 15
inches apart that are infected with
malware by using their heat emissions
and built-in thermal sensors to
communicate it establishes a covert
bi-directional channel by emitting heat
from one pc to the other in a controlled
manner this blows my mind according to
the researchers the scenario is
prevalent in many organizations where
there are two computers on a single desk
one is connected to the internal network
and the other is connected to the
internet bit whisper can be used to
steal small chunks of data passwords for
example especially the 8-digit ones and
they can use them for command and
control that is scary so I had this
great idea that we just put little
coolies on top of the towers I think
it's perfect no heat transfer at all
then I think that they could bring back
ice block delivery and we just set one
in between your two computers keep you
safe folks you know what this is great
for people in cubicles cubicle workers
can now ask for a larger cubicle you
want your computer to be more than 15
centimeters away from your neighbor's
computer you need your own office with
walls into emory China I'm on your side
for all your tech news with a slight
linux bias this is the category five dot
TV news room at newsroom category five
TV for the category five TV newsrooms
i'm sascha der maida
