for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
you
to episode number 286 of
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
the what is it the 12th of March pop in
the mouth yeah isn't it it is making me
wonder Oh quick calendar somebody quick
give me a calendar anything you got a
computer me look at that it's the 12th
it around the computer few 2013 so if
you're watching this in 2017 and
thinking and it's not March the 12th now
you understand have a guilty Abigail
Smith how you doing good excellent how
are you well I'm doing awesome feel a
lot better this week thank you folks
yeah how's everybody doing in the
chatroom nice to see Rev DJ Dave may do
jobs all of our folks watching us on
YouTube tonight Google+ Hangouts through
where else are you watching from you're
watching through mural internet TV if
you're watching after the fact you
watching on blip TV just straight for
YouTube first run TV off of our website
category 5 TV Roku have I left anyone
out you know I have we're everywhere
folks a big list it is yeah it's so good
to see everybody people watching on our
mobile website using em cat5 TV to
access the show how cool is that so
watch it on your mobile while you're
driving around accessing it through your
mobile internet stuff have you got what
do we got coming up tonight all right
coming up in the newsroom intel has
released the first public version of the
intel graphics drivers for looks expect
major delays of the border of SimCity
it's official Ubuntu gnome remix joins
the booty family no way and yes way and
turn your iphone into a 30 Jesus play
four hundred forty dollars we're three
minutes 20 seconds in folks and there is
the first inappropriate laughs we were
waiting for it but stick around because
these stories are coming up later in the
show Chris Reich you know what to do new
played well so joining us anybody
brand-new here tonight joining us in the
chat room fantastic to have you here and
a lot of people yeah Chris right buddy a
lot of people that are joining us for
the first time tonight nice to have you
here people hearing of us through our
syndicate first run TV and some of the
other platforms that that we're new to
so great to have you here let us know
how your how you're watching where
you're from and and how you found us as
well we'd love to hear from you I mean
go to cat five dot TV / ask and you can
submit a comment there now thank you
very much everybody for your request for
that cool feature on our website what's
happening this Sunday I'm Abigail I
don't know what's happening isn't me
sunday is is gonna be an amazing time
especially if you are a reasonably local
viewer or an extremely rich viewer who
has a private jet because here in Barry
we have a meet and greet with category 5
the crew people are going to be at
wiki's pub eight o'clock p.m. live music
is going to be provided by none other
than the infamous Eric kid there's no
entrance charge nothing to get into the
door I just come in have a drink have
some dinner late dinner whatever snack
and join us a wiki's pub which is on
Burton Avenue in Barrie Ontario so if
you're in the area make sure you stop on
by eight o'clock Sunday night you can
get more information cat five dot TV /
facebook if your Facebook user or cat
five dot TV / g plus if you're on google
plus and make sure you you just say
whether you're coming cool sounds fun
tonight we are finally doing it we've
planned it out we've talked about it
we've worked out the details tonight
part of me we are building that photo
booth
I'm so excited it's exciting do I look
excited I'm like I'm so excited no but
really this is her excited folks yeah no
I say i believe i believe i think i was
showing my excitement okay mmm anyways
your dad give her a sec we've received a
lot of new viewer registrations this
this week Abigail I think a lot of you
started registering just because we've
been introducing some cool new features
one of those on our website you can
actually receive the show by email nice
to see so many people who have signed up
specifically to receive that feature
make sure you go to our website category
category 5 TV and you can register right
there on the website it's totally free
and you can then subscribe to some of
those cool features like being able to
receive it by email every single week so
nice to have everybody joining us that
is a new registrants are website very
cool and also Linux tech show com is our
new YouTube channel check that out are
you insane oh it's just how does that
work wait that linux tech show calm down
see your youtube yeah it goes to the
YouTube channel but it's a specific
channel design it's not the full show
it's just clips okay so little itty
bitty clips they could be five minutes
long they could be 20 minutes long but
they're not the full hour this was
specific topics so if you want to Zone
in on a particular topic for example
tonight we're going to be building this
photo booth so you know when it's up on
Linux textual com you can watch just
that segment you can share it with
people and and follow through that way
no hmm awesome and catagory five dot TVs
a member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here and the
International Association of Internet
broadcasters things that we go you can
send in your postcards we love to
receive them category five technology TV
mailed them to p.o box 2900 nine in
Barrie Ontario Canada
l4m 7w 7 we've got to take a really
quick break and we'll be right back
after this don't go anywhere at eco
alkalines we believe you should be able
to trust your batteries not just here
but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance the rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference eco alkalines calm
this is category 5 technology TV welcome
back its category five dot TV John thank
you greetings to our viewers on
justin.tv on ustream TV so good to have
you here as well and everyone else
watching from all around the world check
out our website triple w category 5 TV
so avigail we started talking about
building a photo booth specifically for
your wedding reception yes kind of an
exciting thing what happened I mean you
you can rent a photo booth because it's
at least a thousand dollars what that
was until her as you know okay so let's
see what it's going to cost us to
actually do it ourselves we've kind of
run over some of the numbers ourselves
and and figured that we want to you know
we want to be much cheaper than the cost
of renting one because when you rent one
you only have it for what the day here
you get it the day before having i'm not
sure if they deliver the day of or the
day before probably i'm not sure but hmm
it's a lot of money regardless if it's a
day or two yeah exactly so if we can
build something for cheaper than what
the rental costs then automatically it's
paid for itself and possibly could you
maybe rent this to other people or share
it at least share it with other people
or use maybe we can you know that would
be up to you to think about maybe you
know you know somebody who I actually
know somebody who who performs wedding
ceremonies for example I wonder if I
could call him up and say hey would you
want to rent my photo booth for two
hundred dollars instead of a thousand
bucks I wonder if we could do that just
a crazy thought build a business out of
this one little build yeah well I mean
if you have the equipment you have your
little model made up then why not you
got that you've got the specs that we
kind of came up with and now Abigail and
kyle kyle is your fee on a fiance and we
actually sat down just a couple weeks
ago and started hashing out how we want
it to do this so really just talking
about okay well how are we going to
design it it's got to fit in the room we
know that the room is set up in such a
way that we want one of the walls of the
photo booth to be completely open we're
not going to build a door or any
like that just because of the way the
room is laid out it works for us to have
the the one wall completely open yeah so
what do we come up with here we've we've
come up with we decided to go with PVC I
know that we have the discussion on a
previous show with some viewers and and
you've been in touch with us on facebook
and on our youtube channel and email we
went with PVC it seemed like an
economical solution I think we ended up
with three quarter inch white PVC mm-hmm
which you can get at any hardware store
which is brilliant yep and it's not big
and clunky like it looks really light it
looks nice yes it's really really
lightweight tonight we're actually going
to show you the whole process of how we
came up with the components you saw
coming up with the design there just
sketching it out Abigail's a good at
doing the the kind of drawings and stuff
and i'll i'll show you that a little bit
closer in a little bit but we're
actually going to go step by step
through the entire process one of the
things that we had to determine was the
backdrop i had shown you like a
three-fold kind of room divider at one
point on the show and say well it's a
little bit dark we'd probably have to
paint it it's not quite as nice as what
you were looking for so what were the
kind of the decisions that went through
your mind what do we need to think about
oh well cost-efficient see something
that was gonna look nice yeah but that
wasn't gonna be like with the the three
folds like that probably would have
taken work too if we wanted to make it
right look more suited to the photo
booth depending on cuz i know we were in
one store and we saw one of those panels
yeah and i don't know it's just flip
Daniel awkward cuz they're easy to fall
over if they get kind of nudged or
something you could have them it's all
over it yeah to have something that you
know we wanted to have a photo booth
that was five feet wide and 10 feet deep
yeah and and when you think about a
photo booth there's they usually have
kind of like a curtain yeah even in the
doorway just yeah yeah yeah just
something like that is right so for
those who are wondering you know what's
the purpose in a photo booth what would
you say like you why do you want to have
a photo booth at your wedding reception
entertainment it gives people something
to do it'll be fun I'll have pictures of
all the guests and everything and then i
can send the guests pictures some goofy
ones and maybe some serious ones as well
but i think it'll just it'll be a good
memory of the wedding and right we'll
have fun doing it as well so you never
know what you're gonna come up with i
think after the wedding it'll be fun to
go through all of it and and be able to
see them yeah Reb D jank is wondering if
we're going to actually record audio
during the process as well and we
haven't really thought about audio we
talked about maybe having the video
record which we can still do we're going
to do everything with with real cheap
component we're going to use a webcam
we're going to use like I say the PVC
pipe and just a laptop computer that we
already have to make it happen audio is
certainly a possibility i mean that's
super super small you just install gold
way from gold wavecom press record and
let it go kind of thing so that might be
a consideration what would be better
video or just I think well it depends on
what you want to do the pictures are
really the keys things that wet it the
pictures make it easier to you know have
like a hard copy if you want to put it
in like a scrapbook or something and
then to send the guests as well yeah but
I think the video would be fun because
then they could leave you like a message
or something right it also be funny
because you probably get a lot of
unscripted little eclipse in there sure
yeah red bank mentions now Reb D jank I
should mention the Rev portion of the
alias probably has a little bit more
experience with weddings than any of us
here says they could maybe use that
opportunity to leave their blessings or
even to to sing a song or something
goofy like that yet might be a fun
opportunity for you to get some other
stuff so for tonight's feature i love
the ideas by the way rep DJ and thank
you for tonight's feature we're going to
be looking specifically at the
photographic end of things and we're
going to leave it up to you to get
creative with the rest of it because you
know we're going to start here and then
what you want to do with it from here is
totally up to you and we'll probably end
up changing some things too yeah and and
adding some features to it
you're messing around them and it's a
chance for us to kind of work out the
kinks as well so a lot of fun so with
thinking about okay well we've got to go
get some curtains to make this thing
work so here we go Abigail and Kyle
going shopping in downtown Barry here
and we found some pretty good deal say
like what did you end up spending on
curtains let's let's kind of think
through how much this cost uh they
really i think five dollars five bucks a
panel and you need it and we got in
panel seven there they are for 10 but i
think the two white ones were a bit more
money right they may have been 10 each
47 each yeah there's so many sales I
can't remember mm-hmm but I'm going to
iron the curtains john wants to know no
no no no don't you want you to say no no
no so we've got 25 bucks in the in the
darker curtains there they are because
those are five bucks a pop and how much
do you think the white ones were they
were either seven or ten I don't think
they were five but we want to say like
45 bucks incur invested in curtains yeah
okay so we know that we've got $45 where
the curtains well there's that that
three fold that you hadn't yeah had seen
me that it's gone down in price and
that's thirty dollars so we're paying
for sidebar for all the curtains yet cuz
that we would probably need wide like oh
yeah that was only about five feet wide
if you extended it but then it becomes
flimsy so you need like you'd need
several of those in order to make it
work yeah which I don't think would work
in this case so I think you're right
curtains are probably the way to go PVC
is definitely a a good idea one of the
concerns that you had was you know are
the other is the PVC going to fit
through the grommets of the curtain and
that's why we decided on three quarter
inch piping because you were thinking
along the lines of you know the the
plumbing PVC that I had in my mind that
hideous black yeah it could be it could
be six inches wide right it's the the
plumbing that you see if you if you go
into an unfinished basement you said
under all the toilets right that's what
she was envisioning so no no we're going
with a nice white PVC that's the
three-quarter inch
in diameter so very very fine and the
curtains fit through just fine as far as
the grommets go and things like that and
you can't really tell but the the white
curtains have a really nice texture to
them so they don't look like a shower
curtain they look like a night right a
nice piece of material ya know and I can
see them here definitely they do look
quite nice we visited our friends at
allendale home harder hardware building
center here in bury their 200 minutes
Point Road in Barrie Ontario encourage
you to go check them out there you know
i went in there because i know i've been
in there a few times and i've talked to
Sean in the plumbing department he knows
his stuff and he's not opposed to
thinking outside of the box and really
that's what we needed when we were
thinking about how are we going to build
this thing because we don't have a
prefab way of doing this and we want to
keep it cheap we want to go with you
know the whole idea of PVC versus going
out and buying muslin stands for example
that could be a hundred or two hundred
dollars a piece and you need to put them
all around you it could be very very
expensive to go that route and we had
talked about that as well so looking at
PVC I thought okay well Sean at
allendale Home Hardware building center
is going to be the guy to talk to so we
went over there and he was perfectly
willing to help us so let's let's hop
over there through the magic of
television we're going to go back in
time a little bit and to the other side
of Barry here we go this is allendale
Home Hardware building center
it's equal flights from you can walk
alliance com and this is full and happy
logic you can occur hey that's you now
that you're better he died on the head
like a horse just I everybody can I help
this hi no yeah we're here to fill the
photobooth out of PVC pipe with whatever
you help us sure most definite just
follow me and we want to see what we got
going on okay
go out of PVC formation as you say a
photo booth so it is just a is it a
free-standing stand it is yes we
connected at the corner basically the
sites are going to be will need may be
built 10 5 foot lengths okay let's cut
in half okay next we go from there you
go from there this is what we're going
to deal with today we're going to deal
with white PVC oh ok and I can also show
you where the pipe is so we can hit all
that sex manifold yes I do write down
here on the bottom on your right brain
just Stephanie in the insanity cabinet
okay and this is where we're gonna grab
all our our PVC pipe okay okay one two
three four five six seven eight nine
nine at five feet
and then we'll have two at the 10 feet
still like though this one is going
don't mean to be cut but this so we need
so that means this would be 22 times
that in five foot so we need for
slovenia 13 all together 5 feet 3 11 11
11 pieces altogether 11 10-footers know
this would be this is gonna use because
it's an odd number it's gonna use five
we're gonna have extra so we need two of
them can stay at 10 feet they don't need
to be cut for this and this and then the
other nine pieces will be cut so we'll
have to use 5 10 foots and then at those
and then we'll just have an extra 10 45
you exactly what she says
backcolor 5-footer sir then is it right
on the money
and more pieces skirt okay guys now
we're gonna have to do this to make this
corner if you actually did could we have
to make such an odd-looking corner
but ones like this to this I would get
in my corners you could actually because
because it doesn't go in you can just
put a screw right there we're all right
right right dead in the center there so
we will or so we'll make a 90 right and
it does not affect the pipe because the
pipe will not go into that corner okay I
just gotta go get a drill and a drill
bit so we can pretty drip pre-drill this
and we'll just put little screw into it
and we will assemble it not very safe
way I'm doing it it should be have
things a little vice or something like
that but right now we're improvising
this is here perfectly yeah I don't need
that link
so now we know that you are less than
five feet tall Abby that is not very
nice with its 3d job eighty percent
completely
port more game they're all your all
together are these all the same yeah
that is 710
this is category 5 technology TV i'm
your host Robbie Ferguson and Abigail
Smith real Smith so tonight we're
building a an actual photo booth and
starting from the ground up from the
design all the way through to completion
so thank you very much to the wonderful
people at allendale home hardware
building center at 200 minutes point
road in Barrie Ontario that just are
amazing helpful people there and and
really helped us to kind of envision the
design as well and and truth be told I
went in and talked to to Sean a few
times before hand and just kind of ran
down some ideas around him with him and
and he gave me some ideas as to how this
could be done so very cool stuff so as I
mentioned in the video you saw that we
were starting with I think like a
one-inch pipe but we went down to a
three quarter inch at some point during
during the planning and that had to do
with just making sure that we had all
the right joints and things like that
and quite happy with the three-quarter
inch pipe anyways because very very wet
yeah it looks great and I was amazed at
how easy they just play together and
ultimately literally literally builds
itself folks this is our studio we've
got it all put together there it goes it
just literally puts itself together so
uber simple
Wow and it it it works great it looks
great so we went with five all five foot
lengths so these are ten-foot poles all
cut in half and there we go all set
ready to go with our photobooth so are
you ready to try this out and actually
get a sense for how this is going to
work you're ready to use cheese cheese
my favorite programs I want to start the
segment tonight as we get into the
technology behind how this is going to
work I wanted to start with something
that's open source that's free that's
available for Linux and that's where
cheese comes in cheese is a really great
piece of software that will let us run
everybody's laughing cheese because of
what happened on the last episode of
category five if you missed it with
Abigail here when we were talking about
cheese it was a bit of a giggle fest but
we got through and we found that cheese
is actually a very viable software
solution to to making this work yeah so
I'm going to bring that up on my system
here in a boon to there we go the count
smile alright so there we go so with
cheese now kyle is of course on the
camera we are in the studio in front of
him so the first thing that I want to do
is I actually want to change this to
burst mode okay that's as we had found
in the one episode that that is what
we're going to do for to basically make
it operate like a photobooth you go
through preferences and make sure your
photo resolution is as high as it can go
now we have chosen to go with the
microsoft lifecam studio camera because
it does a full true 1080p 1920 x 1080
and that little camera works very very
well and is available for only 60 bucks
so I happen to have you know I always
have a few of these bad boys laying
around the studio there they are it's
like this and what's really really nice
about this for one it's 1080p true 1080p
but also it has a tripod mounting what
do you call it like I'm not there so
that you can actually mount that
directly on a tripod in this very
verbal because it it has the flex neck
here and it can go left and right and up
and down so you can really maneuver it
well but it's only about 60 bucks you
can get one from cap five dot TV / cam
that's see am short for camera make sure
you go grab yourself one of those for
your photo booth like I said I already
had a couple of them laying around so
our cost we didn't have to add that but
i'm going to add that just for you so
that we know how much is this costing so
another sixty dollars to our photo booth
okay so on cheese just set up you know
things like countdown is important to
our photobooth fire flash is important
to our photo booth just for the effect
and how many photos you want it to take
and how much delay between the burst
photos so I've set it for for photos
with delay of one second so Abigail what
I'll do is I'll get you to actually step
over there with Kyle and I'm going to
come over and set up your camera for you
yeah I will get there eleven minutes
later alright so let's get this all set
up i'm going to give you guys some light
over here now this is the other thing is
that we have studio lighting here that
that you may not have access to at home
you can buy these from pretty much any
photo store but you can use just a like
a table lamp or something like that will
do as well get like a flood lamp or
something along those lines which you
could also get at allendale Home
Hardware your your local hardware store
I'm gonna switch back over to to the
webcam there and hit f11 to make this
full screen and we'll just kind of
adjust the the location of the camera
now I'm limited in this particular
environment to the length of cable that
i have i would probably want the camera
to be a little bit closer to you so
there's a little bit better cropping
there now if you could hold up the green
button that that we have there just to
show the viewers at home what what you
have this is the USB USB button from
literally the USB button
calm and this device is available for
under thirty dollars and it is in fact
I've got it set to Greenwich is your
wedding color so do you want to just
give that a quick tap the others I don't
think it it properly here you go do you
see it it went purple did go purple it
went purple push that for me there you
go okay it says taking pictures to 10
again yeah it takes four of them one
second intervals there we go so that's
that's cheese and that's really where
cheese gets you to so cheese doesn't now
I've lost part of my light so you
understand why that is cheese doesn't
show you the photos on the screen so in
order to actually see them you have to
then go over to your computer and you'd
have you probably have to do this
because we're doing this without having
a mouse anywhere near the computer
because we don't want them to be able to
click on things or anything like that so
I go into webcam and I can see that
there are the pictures in there and
they're really good quality there you go
and those will all make it to the show
notes and our Facebook and Google+ pages
so that works pretty good thoughts about
cheese it's free let me tell you that
she's the software is free it's
available for you in the repositories of
your favorite linux distribution so
definitely recommend they check that out
if you're looking for you know really
cheap solution the next option abigail
is to actually step things up a little
bit and go with some commercial software
so what i was thinking about doing is
you know possibly looking at some of the
options that were out there and one of
them that is probably the best that i've
been able to find is called spark booth
and the disadvantage to spark booth is
simply that it requires microsoft
windows if that can be considered a
disadvantage and as a linux user i would
say that it kind of is but that said i'm
able to boot up virtual machine using
Oracle VirtualBox which is free software
so if you have a windows seven license
or Windows XP or anything like that you
can install it
into linux you see that i am indeed
using linux but i'm using microsoft
windows as my the operating system is
booting up right now so that's an
interesting use case but of course in
our situation we're going to be using a
laptop and that laptop already has
windows 7 on it so we're happy to to
simply go that route so I'm just going
to load right into the windows system
here and open spark booth 3.7 which I've
already installed spark booth is a
commercial application as I say but
there is a free version that's available
for you to download and try the software
itself if you want to purchase the full
version is sixty dollars if you're going
to be using this for your wedding or
whatever then I would suggest if this is
the right you're going to go as opposed
to cheese sixty dollars is not a lot to
spend and to add to the bill and it does
a really really good job as you're going
to see so just going to load that up
again it's called spark booth you can
get it at cat five dot TV / spark booth
SP AR KBOO th now one of the things
that's neat about spark booth is that
it's thema below so you see this Abigail
it's I've already set it up as a just
married and it's kind of cute it's in
your wedding colors and it's it's
basically built for your wedding mm-hmm
at this point very customizable there
you go so well let's let's before you
actually push the green button let's
bring up our settings and and see what
kind of settings are available here in
spark booth because I'd like you to see
the difference between cheese and this
and they are pretty stark this is a
commercial application sixty dollars
gets you a really good high-end
commercial tool to be able to do a photo
booth so we're going to bring up the
settings here
it's common smile for us guys so you can
see that well out as I'm not sure what's
what's going on there that hasn't
happened before but that's okay you're
laughing over there there we go there
okay the settings are up now because I'm
running this as a virtual machine I'll
just note it's not as good as a native
environment as far as if i were to put
this on the laptop itself with windows 7
as the main operating system i'm using a
virtual machine because here on the air
we don't have a windows system that i
could actually run this on so this is a
really really good kind of hack around
so in the settings window which have now
come up you can find you know photo
layout so i'm going to do a 1 by 4 strip
just because that's kind of traditional
sound good Abigail awesome all right do
do you want sound absolutely do you want
to hide the mouse cursor probably yeah
because you know we're using a touch
button as opposed to a mouse the theme
that you want to use and we've got I've
already set it to the wedding the photo
preview preview how you want it to
actually come out you want it to be
random or slide in or photo drop or
whatever you want it to do we'll just
leave it as random just for fun how long
you want the previews to last and so on
and so forth keyboard shortcuts spacebar
is is going to actually take the photo
or enter so keep in mind that with our
USB button from USB button com we've
already programmed that to be a space
bar so that's how this is able to work
for us so that's very very cool now you
can go through each of the settings
configure all this stuff up photo
effects feel free to go through I'm just
skimming through add your own voice so
you can be like and now it's time to
take your photo that would be cool if I
tinges everyone hearing from behind the
curtain and now did you photo it like
that yeah
absolutely absolutely so you know how
you want the guests to be prompted if
you want to include a keyboard you can
have them prompted for their name for
example for their email address you can
ask them if they want to print it you
can have a printer connected and you see
under printing we can actually set this
up to automatically print as soon as
their photo session is done which is
kind of a nice little keepsake for them
but then under saving I've also said you
know what I'm going to save this in a
folder and documents called spark booth
and I've said I want to save not only
the for the one by four soon sometimes
messes up when I'm doing there okay not
only do I want to save the one by four
but i also want to save the individual
photos that's what I've selected there
so that we've got the full resolution
really nice thing is that here's another
great feature for you do you want to
automatically upload the photos as
they're taken if your computer for your
photo booth is going to have an internet
connection check this out you can
automatically have it post the photos to
Facebook or to Flickr or any of these
right isn't that cool so twitpic have it
automatically post but if you're you
know you're having your wedding you can
automatically have these photos going up
on your facebook wedding page for
example during the actual event as
people are taking them I think that's
pretty amazing so you can see already
that how this is quite a step up from
cheese as far as feature set goes you'll
notice that I've changed the starting
text to say press green button mm-hmm
that's not by default I know that I'm
putting a green button in front of them
so I want to make the description really
really easy Abigail and I you we had
talked about maybe we need to put up a
sign or something right yeah I'm gonna
create a sign sign that's cool but here
on the screen I can actually give the
instructions and I can say press green
button or press the spacebar if you
don't have a green button for example
yeah don't press the red button yeah so
everything is there I've changed it to
widescreen as well because I've got a
1080p web cam I want to get the best
resolution out of that as possible so
i'm not going to crop it to square i'm
going to give me the the full widescreen
mode so let's close that and make sure
that's the active window and
this is ladies and gentlemen your actual
photo session so Abigail sitting in the
photo studio with her husband to be Kyle
let's press the green button shall we
great mm-hmm let's see how it works yeah
pressive ok now the flicker I believe
his boot is due to the virtual machine
as well oh I'm sorry okay now press it
again ready that's my fault go ahead go
again yeah 40 and another so angry one
more I moved too slowly
and there you go so that unlike cheese
your guests are actually going to get to
see a preview of what their photos
turned out like oh alright so that is
that spark booth that is from cat five
dot TV / spark booth and then it there
you go your welcome is done and now you
can step out and it's the next person's
turn kind of idea so Abigail if you'd
like to join me back on the studio set
here this is category 5 technology TV
welcome back welcome to the show
category 5 TV Abigail if you could just
turn that light for me as you come and
that will bring us some light in the
studio here nice and dark well just turn
the head of it no you don't need to move
this down there you go perfect I'm gonna
get blamed that's like your eyes there
you go tell me oh yeah that's looking
yeah I need to test you for my issue if
you don't have studio life's like that
for your photo booth all you need to do
is just like I say get a like a student
lamp or something that you would get for
your desk one that you can put a flood
light bulb in and just set it back far
enough that it's not going to be you
know creating huge amounts of glare off
of the people that are getting their
photos taken mm-hmm that's good what you
doing I don't know what I did yeah it
hurts it's like pressing into the back
of my head thinner all right exam again
so what do you think it was awesome I
really like the house its bark bark
carpet yeah I really like that because
it shows you the pictures and it talks
to you my kind of thing yeah um however
cheese is free sixty dollars is a fair
amount compared to you know when you
think about all of our drapes for $45
yeah so sixty dollars to add that to the
bill I think it's nice because it gives
the guests a chance to see the pictures
cuz maybe they want to take them again
cuz if you notice there are some
pictures where I was like I wasn't ready
so if they have the time thinking like
but you the other thing is that with
with that you can set it up to print so
you say about how it's nice for them to
be able to see their photos on the
screen but even being able to just plug
in a photo printer which are dirt cheap
these days and have it spew out on photo
paper yeah and then they can just cut
them out afterwards or whatever to get
the crop lines right or whatever hmm and
I think there's lots of different ways
that you can different options that you
can do for the photo booth depending on
your event or what you do how fancy
shmancy you want it to be here exactly
so where are we at so we've got well no
I mean we're not moving on just yet okay
we spent forty five dollars on the
curtains sixty dollars on a camera we
send a bit from cat5 TV / cam at home
hardware yeah we spent a boat i believe
is 67 PVC piping and all the accessories
that we needed from there sixty-seven
dollars was there anything else that we
got from there I don't think so that was
it was literally just the the pipework
them separate yeah okay so um and what
else have we invested in this so far
that's really you know the USB button at
thirty dollars yeah well I did shame
though sir yeah and they're not really i
don't know if you can see on camera but
I did pick up just behind the lamp on
your right there you see a couple of
hooks I don't know Kyle if you could
just pick one up and show those hooks I
just picked up at a dollar store or
something in there they're pretty great
just so that you can oh yeah if you want
to hand one to me just so they what the
thought was is well you'd like to be
able to put Christmas lights or
something around the outside just to
make it look nicer so I just picked up
some of them even to hang a sign that
says like photo booth or something right
signage or whatever just makes it easier
to the time is sold on it I don't think
it well it's awfully solid it really is
and I think that's because of the the
u-shape design of it and the as you saw
the joints in the corners the three the
ones that we needed to have Sean screw
the the the
and on their solid like they're not the
stuff can't turn or anything like that
it's it's a solid kind of connector so
okay so you want to add this up and
figure out okay so we've got figure out
how much we've actually how much this is
costing to build a photo booth there you
go math is not my subject so this is the
this is as you would have really the
moment of truth folks we had budgeted
about 200 bucks yep I believe so yeah
originally and what and 60 when you say
67 was that taxing that was a taxon I
think okay I think this was before
that's inflated by thirteen percent
mm-hmm cuz that's Ontario alright so
we're literally at two hundred bucks 202
dollars after tax with the for the PVC
because she added the thirteen percent
in in there so that's really really good
it so from a thousand dollars for a
rental to two hundred dollars for build
it do it yourself mm-hmm I think it's
good did we pulled it off what do you
think folks how's that look to you and
you think that that's a usable design
what we're going to do I'm actually
going to post the design specs
everything like that in the show notes
of episode number 286 as well you're
going to have access to those through my
blog at bald nerd com everything like
that and it is actually there were seven
three quarter inch pipes all cut in half
so third it was 13 yes I usually it
wrong I calculated correctly 13 pieces
all together and then all the joints and
stuff so will actually draw that out for
you and post that for you if you want to
build something similar but I mean it
was so easy to to put together and build
it take apart and it's so compact when
you like it's gonna be so yeah yeah you
wrap it up yeah the pipes are like this
and they weigh like 5 pounds and you
just throw it in the back of a car it's
only 5 feet and all of the all of the
ends and joiners and everything all fit
into it like a shopping bag yet so I was
worried that it was going to take a long
time to set
up the night before and oh my god I was
just one more thing but it's like five
minutes tear down we're gonna be airing
it down after the show tonight so if you
want to watch on that either backstage
pass or Google Hangouts you'll be able
to see how easy this is to tear down
very cool stuff I'm pleased for that you
pleased with that I am yeah it's great
I'm excited yeah cool alright so now
yeah there's an idea Reb D Jenks says
hey you could use that for puppet shows
later yeah the short ideas yeah yeah I
think that looks really good no exam ago
he's a fun project yeah if you have
likes my back any thoughts for us email
us live at category five dot TV we'd
love to know what you think and also
join us a category five dot TV love to
have you there right Abigail hey digger
away I Terry trying to laugh is 10 this
is a serious this is very serious it's
intense it was a serious show here my
throat even is that serious so in
category five TV newsroom tonight on
Thursday the Intel open source
technology center released the first
public version of the intel graphics
drivers for linux it currently supports
ubuntu 12.04 and 12 point 10 and fedora
17 and 18 and the source code is also
available for those who are little more
daring the Intel linux graphics
installer allows you to easily install
the latest graphics drivers for your
intel graphics hardware this allows you
to stay current with the latest
enhancements optimizations and fixes to
ensure the best user experience with
your intel graphics hardware cool i'm
gone on own going problems with the
latest version of SimCity led amazon to
stop selling the game just two days
after it was released SimCity has always
been a standalone game but EA has added
the requirement of an internet
connection to infuse the title with more
realism now cities exist as part of
online regions and share some character
Ock's stick characteristics of those
virtual environments such as pollution
crime and essential resources
the online requirement is also seen as
an attempt to curb piracy of the title
as a web connection is required even if
a player shuns the chance to connect
their cities to others hmm however the
requirement for all players of the game
to be connected has led some to wait 30
minutes or more to play yikes that
wouldn't be fun no the server problems
have led to sluggish response times
crashes and other bugs to lighten the
load on its back-end servers EA turned
off some features including leaderboards
and achievements it has also been
removed it has also removed the option
to run the game at its fastest setting
known as cheetah speed instead all
cities will now run at the lower speed
of llama speed llamas be i literally
just pictured some higher up at Matt I
don't know who makes that now EA i guess
i was gonna say maxim simcity saying
we'll let you play but you cannot
achieve anything well have you seen this
game though I mean it looks spectacular
wow wow crazy I remember playing since
anyone is like the little dots unhook it
though it Larry was a crowned little
dots remember pac-man that's you know it
when when SimCity first came out I was
one of the first players and loved it
well I only first Slayer it's 3d it is
you were the first player there it is so
if you can get in after a half hour wait
what they were saying though is it
what's interesting is that people who
would make the wait we're enjoying it so
much that they would not sign off and
that's why there was so much draw on the
servers because people were playing it
endlessly which is understandable right
you're building yeah your city and your
building all of these 3d that's it's
crazy Wow come so far sure has Oh next
in news xubuntu gnome has officially
accepted has been officially accepted
into the boon to family this is exciting
to me I prefer gnome over unity for sure
becoming an official flavor means that
the project will now benefit
it from access to infrastructure support
and technical publicity from canonical
canonical canonical pick up that
particular friggin slur made me together
and the beauty community originally
called non boon to the boon to Nome
project aims to provide users with as
pure a gnome experience as possible on a
boon to nice the next release expected
in April will be based on known 3.6
though gnome 3.8 will be available for
installation from a project maintained
PPA very cool amongst all the latest
generation technology it's interesting
to see once spring up that uses optical
concepts hundreds of years old the
palmtop theater is an iphone case that
turns smartphone videos into a miniature
3d viewing experience the peripheral
utilizes three small dropdown displays
the rear is a full mirror with two half
mirrors in front reflecting images from
the phone's display creating an illusion
of what appears to be a
three-dimensional object and according
to those who have seen it firsthand the
experience quite stunning in order to
create the 3d effect a propriety video
file format is required which splits the
displayed image or video into three
parts a converter app is provided to
allow you to create the effect on your
existing videos the palmtop theater is
available now for under forty dollars
really it's that cheap really really but
what we all want to know is will it
bring Tupac back it sounds exactly like
the technology that they're using right
it's almost like a it's almost like
using parallax in or some some sort of
multiple leveled screens but I wonder I
noticed that in all of the snapshots and
everything that I've seen of this thing
everything is kind of like these figures
and things nothing is a real movie and I
wonder if if an actual video wouldn't
work or if it's really just these kind
of fractal looking things so that that
would be interesting interesting to see
I guess is it was more popular than
filthy more yeah and and it's certainly
a bit of a gimmick right I mean how many
people need to be able to sit there
watching a 3d movie on a little it looks
like it the way that it goes your phone
goes in live off there huh I know but
look at the way that your phone goes
into so it's not the width of your
screen mm-hmm it's the height it's it
goes this way so I'd what is that an
inch and a half maybe two inches yeah so
my screen is literally like a couple
inches wide yeah I guess I guess you'd
be addressing to see just for even just
little clips yeah like a smaller portion
it would just be neat to see what it
looks like like the technology but it's
a bit of a fad like I would think that
yeah oh wow that's really really cool
and then it would sit on a shelf
somewhere yeah and it was you know but
for 40 bucks I mean you go to the movie
a couple times and you've already spent
that but that's that's kind of a neat
little gadget anyway hmm oh cool you can
get the full stories at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category five dot TV news
room is researched by roy w nash with
contra contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a new story you
think is worthy of an on-air mansion by
me or someone else email newsroom at
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm Abigail Smith Thank You Abigail
hey check out quarterly electric quarter
eee electric com they're one of our
sponsors tonight and they provide our
electrical work here at category five
and we suggest that if you're in the
very area make sure you check them out
because anywhere in central Ontario
they'll be able to do some electrical
work for and they're fantastic bunch of
guys also netflix cat5 TV / netflix you
can get your free one month trial and
encourage you to give that a go and i
guarantee you you're gonna love it
absolutely and no strings attached right
you can cancel at any time also
tonight's show is brought to you in part
by nettalk duo fight it more about them
a cat five dot TV / phone and I
encourage you to check that out there's
more information there you've seen it on
the show for the past couple of weeks
but certainly a great way to save money
because this replaces your phone service
and allows you to call anywhere in North
America
Canada the United States absolutely free
and you can't beat that save like up to
a thousand bucks a year so that's
nettalk duo and do a Wi-Fi dual Wi-Fi
from cat5 TV / phone all right loads of
stuff to cover tonight it's it's been
fun so far I hope everyone's having fun
at home what do you think I I don't know
if some of you have already noticed I
see Chris Reich yeah buddy some in the
chat room are noticing as well that I've
switched to Lubuntu mm-hmm and this is
twelve point 10 and I did this because I
was having some trouble with compiz
anywhere else and strangely enough right
lubuntu would be the one that solves all
the conference problems but out of the
box bhuntu didn't really have a lot set
up for it as far as compiz effects or
anything like that which is cool we can
we can fix that so just wanted to you
know one of the things that we do here
at the show that's really really
important to us is being able to zoom in
on things right if I bring up a website
and people have said to me to me before
well how do you do that because you know
if you're watching this on your little
3d iphone for example and it really
really helps that i'm able to do that
for you because i can make that text
readable on any device sure if you're
watching this on a 52 inch TV you can
see it like that but for those of you at
home who don't have that ability that
really helps so that's called enhanced
desktop zoom it's a feature of a boon to
if it has comp it's a feature of linux
with compiz it's a plugin for campus
which is compositing manager and desktop
effects and windowing manager and all
that stuff it does a lot of very very
cool things but unfortunately it's kind
of an end of life and so we're starting
to see different applications of Linux
that it's really really hard to get a
good working version of comp is these
days it's unfortunate but with ubuntu it
obviously works but out of the box there
is no
no enhanced desktop zoom we really
needed that so I figure that you may
want that as well easy way to activate
that in the boom to 12 point 10 is to go
into software Center and we're going to
install something called compiz configs
compiz config settings manager and
that's going to allow us to modify the
settings that we need to modify so just
do a quick search for comp is config and
you'll see it there highlight it and
click on install and literally takes
just a moment to install not going to
take long at all and this application be
very very careful with it you can break
everything I'm going to show you
something that's not going to have the
possibility of breaking things this is
not one of those cases where I'm going
to say click around an experiment you
don't want to do that with compiz config
settings manager so now launch it the
first time you launch it I've already
launched it before so you'll you'll get
a warning but it warns you that is
dangerous go do a search for zoom and
bring up enhance desktop zoom and you'll
see that it is enabled down at the
bottom left there but zoom in is
disabled so we're going to enable that
and we're going to click on the super
button that's the Windows key on your
keyboard and change the drop down to
button for that's the up scroll wheel
and then hit ok now for zoom out we need
a way to zoom out as well click on
disable then go super button 5 which is
the scroll wheel down button and now
we've got the ability to zoom in and out
just by holding our super key our
windows key and using the up and down
scroll wheel so that's fantastic one of
the things with ubuntu is that when you
hold in the windows button sometimes it
brings up that helpful dialogue that
shows you all the hotkeys so we're going
to actually change that behavior type in
unity into the search and go to
experimental and scroll down a little
ways you'll see one that says down here
somewhere enable shortcut hints overlay
we just have to turn that off
there we go and that's literally all
there is to it we're good to go and now
we've got that very very cool effect
that allows us to zoom in and out on our
desktop and works really really great
for doing what we do because we want to
be able to zoom in yeah yeah people
would say oh well we don't really need
comp is anymore but there are use cases
and we're one of them where suming in is
a really really helpful tool another
really good use for enhanced desktop
zoom which is available in comp is in
wayland is for accessibility people who
have really poor eyesight there are
magnifying glass tools that allow you to
have a little will you know little
section of your screen dedicated so that
as you mouse over stuff it would zoom it
in there but you can see that the
usability of this feature being able to
actually physically zoom in on your
applications is much more useful from an
accessibility standpoint as well so I
think it's going to be hugely missed but
in the meantime 12 point 10 a boon to
we've got that work and just fine really
easy to set it up cool yeah any
questions in the chat room we love to
we'd love to hear from you here category
5 TV where I can't believe that the
timeout on how did that even happen
Slyke we hit a time warp folks I hope
that you had a great time tonight I sure
did you know fun of course they did yeah
we're talking about cheese cheese say
cheese folks hope they have a fantastic
week next week we have Rachel shoe
joining us back here in the studio it's
been a long long time since we've had
her as a co-host on the show she is is
back from her time away so don't miss it
we're gonna be talking with bogdan autos
and we're gonna be talking about his new
company that allows you to communicate
with your customers in real time through
their cell phones so if you if you own a
company this is an opportunity for you
to get a really cool app that your
customers can just scan QR code and be
able to provide reviews of your services
and things like that
so everybody have a fantastic week
Abigail you help me tear this thing down
yes I don't know all right no I'm just
gonna leave you to do it all by
yourselves take an easy everybody thanks
Abigail nice crowd and thank you too to
allendale home hardware again as well
take care of buddy
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcast live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chat where
category 5 is a production of quantity
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
missy
thanks for tuning
