tonight I am taking the KC 1000 for a
spin this comes to us from Kingston and
what they've done is brilliant now you
know about SSD drives they're fast right
we used to use these spinning hard
drives in our computers they would
basically be the bottleneck of our
computers we got to the point where
technology grew in such a way that
central processing units were no longer
the bottleneck Ram was no longer the
bottleneck we've got 32 gigs in our
system and we've got four gigahertz and
we've got all this power but we still
had spinning hard drives at 7200
rotations per minute so it was slowing
down our system so then along comes SSD
on an SAT a bus that's what you plug it
into they look a little something like
this
and they plug into your computer like
that and they are fast super fast like
10 times faster than your average hard
drive so you pop one of those in and
instantly you've got better performance
you've got a much much faster computer
it's a great upgrade to go with SSD now
here we are it's 2017 we've got a
technology that has been available for
awhile called M 2 and M 2 is a new take
on storage because chips have evolved to
the point where those chips are super
fast and what was the problem with them
before they were small they didn't have
a lot of capacity well nowadays chips
have gotten to the point where on a
single m2 which is a replacement for
your hard drive it's a little it looks
like a ram module it's about that size a
little bit smaller you can have a
terabyte of data easily you want a 240
260 gig MDOT - it's no problem at all
now Kingston of course has the KC 1000
which is a one terabyte solid-state
drive it's an m2 on a controller card
now I'm going to show you that so why
have they brought this out what what is
so exciting about this for for us in a
technology you know great it's a new new
type of storage and m2 is faster
here's the thing your motherboard may
not have an MDOT to controller which
what it does is it bypasses the SATA
controller so we think about that so the
hard drive is no longer the bottleneck
the memory is no longer the bottleneck
the CPU is no longer the bottleneck the
hard drive itself the storage is very
very fast but the cable that connects
that hard drive to your computer or that
solid-state drive to your computer's
motherboard is called SATA serial ata
and it is fast but it's not as fast as
the chips can handle so along comes m2
and says ok we're gonna take this we're
gonna make it so that it no longer needs
your storage to be on the SATA
controller we're doing away with that
need altogether and we're saying ok
we're gonna put it on a new controller
for EM dot - it's so much faster we're
talking four times faster than a
standard SATA hard state drive that you
would consider to be fast so if you've
got a computer that doesn't have MDOT to
capability it doesn't have that port for
that new chip along comes kingston and
says here you go we've got an answer now
i've got an overhead camera i'm just
gonna fire up here we're gonna see if i
can get you a shot i want to show you
what this is going to look like let's
see if i can pull this up ok
so with my trusty mouse and touchscreen
display there we go
bring this up and there okay you guys
can still hear me you can see me
fantastic ok so here we go with live
unboxing of this card and what makes
this so special so get her in the focus
here there we go
so the kingston casey 1000 is an x4 card
on the PCIe bus so we're doing away with
the need for SATA but we're setting it
up as a card in your computer that has
an MDOT 2 on it that's the quick and
dirty way to understand it anyways oh
and they've also included a low profile
here in case you want to put it in say a
1u server this would be amazing storage
for your server but here's the thing
about the card itself this is part of
how Kingston is getting around the
bottlenecks of your system giving you
the world's fastest data storage the
card uses what's called nvm e or nvm
Express and that allows this particular
m2 to work even faster than normal by
utilizing the throughput of not one but
four PCI Express 3.0 lanes now nvme also
has a queue depth that's more than 2,000
times that of AHCI meaning that it can
do more stuff in the same amount of time
I happen to have an X 16 in my computer
that is not being used fantastic so
we're gonna we're gonna see about
putting that in there so let's get let's
get under the computer here and I'm
gonna see about plugging this bad boy in
alright got a camera under the desk
alright so you can see my X dot 16 there
I go with the dot my X 16 there the blue
port so with the KC 1009
now X the the PCI Express slots if
they're bigger so this is an X 16 you
see that it's a big slot it can take
anything up to x16 so you could have an
X 1 in there with the X 4 I can just pop
it right in there we go ok so just put a
thumb little thumb screw in there to
hold it in now do note I've got the
computer powered off I've got the
computer the power supply switched off
and I've waited for the power to come
out of the power supply and I have
grounded myself as well so do keep those
things in mind as you're working with
internal components like this all right
now let's get back up here and so that's
all done so that's installed I'm going
to boot up my computer and let's get a
look at what this is going to do for us
so first thing I need to do now on this
particular computer
I am sitting on Windows 10 that's
because we use this for Telestream
Wirecast broadcasting so on Windows 10
what I need to do is I now you know it's
it's not telling me anything but it is
ready to go I all I need to do is
actually partition this hard drive I've
got to set it up with a partition table
so I'm going to go with GPT and once
that's initialized I can just scroll
down to that hard drive and we're gonna
format that NTFS the NT filesystem so
that's not going to take long I'm gonna
do a quick format and we're just going
to call that the KC 1000 so that we know
which drive we're looking at when I look
at my computer okay so now I've got a
couple of screenshots here I want to
show you first of all let's do a quick
comparison of my standard hard drive I
saw a solid state hard drive versus the
one that that we're installing right now
so I'm gonna just jump onto drive here
now keep in mind why is this important
to us here at category 5 technology TV
so Telestream Wirecast has this
incredible feature called
iso recording have you ever heard of
that what iso recording does is it
allows us to record from every single
camera simultaneously think about that
for a second so from a broadcasters
perspective Telestream Wirecast is able
to take not only the mix so I can take
this I can do this and I can go like
this and I can go like that and I can
switch cameras but what it can do is
record to disk all of the cameras
simultaneously so I get a feed that is
mixed like this and I get a feed that is
individual recordings one for each
camera why does that matter now from a
broadcasters perspective that matters
because now I can take those full HD or
even 4k recordings from my recorder the
ISO recorder and Wirecast and put them
into my editor and I can start putting
them together and do better production
values than I can live
so that's incredible but it takes a
boatload of resources so you think about
now we broadcast at 1080p you think
about the fact that we also have a mage
well 4k capture card in there we could
be capturing at 4k from a 4k camera as
well so we've got that capability but we
don't have the power to save it to disk
simultaneously all at once because our
hard drive can only write at a little
more than 500 megabytes a second so we
need to have something a lot faster so
we're gonna benchmark these these kind
of in a head-to-head comparison you're
gonna see my SSD which is a good one and
you're also going to see the KC 1000 as
well so that we can get an idea you know
is it really as significant of a boost
as we're hoping for as we're expecting
and will it work really really well for
Telestream Wirecast iso recordings so if
you're a broadcaster check out Wirecast
it is cat5 dot TV slash Wirecast
and this as I said can record all
cameras to disks Immelt aeneas lee so
you have to have very very fast storage
in order to do that we're gonna learn a
little bit about the difference of you
know how data is written to our hard
drives tonight but essentially when I
think about Telestream Wirecast it's a
very good example broadcasting in
general a very good example of
sequential writing so even if my hard
drive my SSD my m2 was not super fast to
read as long as I've got super extremely
fast writing speed and it can handle
very very fast sequential writes it
should do pretty well now that's because
when I hit record on Telestream Wirecast
I'm recording to disk baby I don't care
about what size of the blocks are I just
want it to record straight to the disk
like my old analog recorder press record
let her go so my original hard drive the
one that I normally use and the one that
I'm using tonight to record too is is
also a kingston hard drive now i've
brought it up on new egg doc see a just
to give me a look at what it is what it
looks like and that is the HyperX
see if I can bring up my oh I can't
bring up my laptop I haven't plugged in
the HDMI so give me one second I'm just
gonna fade to black I'm gonna come back
I'm gonna plug in my laptop so that you
can see what I see and you won't even
know I've been gone and we're back and
there you have it HDMI is plugged into
my laptop so now I can show you okay so
this is the hard drive that I normally
record - it's a small one it's 120 gig
sh 103
s3 from Kingston it's the HyperX and
it's super fast so how fast is it if I
get in here let's get a look so max
sequential read is up to five hundred
and fifty five megabytes per second do
you see that there and max sequential
write is up to five hundred and ten
megabytes per second so of course this
is an SATA hard drive SSD and so the
speeds for what it is are extremely good
really really nice and fast let's get a
look at what Newegg says about the one
that we're putting in today the KC 1000
from Kingston so just gonna pop over
there according to the specifications
now this is the 240 gig model Kingston
Kingston has up to the I believe that's
the one terabyte the one that I have but
Newegg does not they have the up to the
240 right now that will change so max
sequential read you ready for it
2700 megabytes per second max sequential
right on the 240 gig model is up to 900
megabytes per second so that's almost
twice that as far as writing goes as my
SSD even though my SSD is a very very
good one now if I actually check the one
terabyte model it's faster so if we go
to Kingston dot-com and this card in the
one terabyte model is actually faster
than what we're seeing there on Newegg
with the 240 gig so I don't know if it
says it on the box for us that would be
handy our internet seems to be going a
little bit wonky there that's okay it
does okay my apologies so as soon as you
hit the 480 gigabyte model it it jumps
60
hundred megabytes per second and it's
the same for the 960 the one terabyte
model as well the one that we're using
here tonight okay so with that in mind
we now have storage that reads and
writes like exponentially faster than
what we're used to even with a good SSD
so I've run some benchmarks here I've
got crystal disk mark which I'm gonna
kind of explain to you how this works
but crystal disk mark allows me on
Microsoft Windows to do a really easy
test of the speed of the hard drive so
what I've done is I've got it
up and going for the my F drive which is
the solid-state drive that we're
normally recording to and you see that
my sequential reads the the forth green
icon down here sequential is 269
megabytes per second read and 189 dot
six right and that's in in these tests
so what I've done now crystal disk mark
what I've done here is I've set the
repeat of the test to be five so
typically with anywhere from three and
up you're gonna have a pretty accurate
result so it retests up to five times
and I'm using a two gigabyte file
because I'm usually working with a
fairly large file anyways and I've run
that on that hard drive the the SSD so
those are the speeds that I'm getting so
280 1.6 sequential when I've got a queue
depth of 32 and the four case of the
block size being 4k which your operating
system may do dia is when it breaks it
up into smaller files if you will so
that it can burst them to the drive and
it you know on the old hard drive that
makes sure that you don't have a
well I guess I guess what it does is it
makes it faster in in some use cases but
here I really am interested in the
sequential read and write especially the
right so and I don't pretend to be a
brilliant genius when it comes to this
kind of stuff but I do want to share you
with you the results so I've got the two
hundred eighty one point six read and
191 write and it's pretty close to the
same without the Q depth so to explain
the difference there so I'm looking at
mainly the sequential is what I care
about sequential queue depth of
thirty-two so basically what that means
is that it's doing 32 operations at a
time your computer will try to do
multiple things at a time as its reading
and writing to a disk so that it doesn't
bottleneck it doesn't hold things up
otherwise if you were writing a 10 gig
file to your hard drive everything else
would freeze if all of the the queues
were dedicated specifically to that
operation so your computer breaks it up
into in this case the test is a queue
depth of 32 threads so you've got 32
things happening at once and the speed
is pretty similar to that of just a
straight sequential single stream to the
hard drive 270 megabytes read and 190
right now let's look at the KC 1000 huge
difference on sequential so my
sequential read speed with a queue depth
of 32 is 1373 1373 megabytes per second
now my write speed I've told you that's
what really matters to me as a
broadcaster my write speed on that card
is thirty one thousand three hundred and
eighty megabytes per second so you think
about that now so we've got almost well
what was it
we had 191 sequential on the SSD and we
do pretty well with that so five times
no more than that like so much faster
we're talking an exponential jump like
ten times the speed for writes and it's
even though they don't match up quite as
closely you can see that the the
sequential speed on just a single thread
is very very impressive as well 1023
megabytes
read and 1086 write very very impressed
with this card oh boy
you imagine this in your gaming rig Wow
okay folks chat room what do you think
do you have any benchmarks of your
system have you ever taken a look at
this the actual speed of your drive I'd
love to kind of have a little bit of a
comparison as to you know how fast is
your SSD compared to the KC 1000 so from
our perspective now we're able to turn
on that ISO recording feature which I
hope to do over the next little while
we're able to introduce more cameras and
be able to record them to disk
simultaneously thanks to the speed and
the incredible throughput of this card
and thinking of throughput the one kind
of final thing that I want to just
mention is the fact that hey we also
have to look at consistency that's
pretty important right so I actually
threw it on flash bench as well and now
this is the my SSD my SSD you can see
look at the left hand side there 265
megabytes per second so that's the
starting point and it kind of drops and
it has some peaks and dives and and then
it has a pretty consistent tapering off
near the 16 K block size so nice and
fast up here at 265 megabytes per second
but then it drops off but these valleys
are what kind of Concerned me that means
that we're we're not having a very
stable speed it's dropping off and then
coming back and then dropping off and
then coming back that would concern me
when it comes to recording video so
looking at the KC 1000 now on the left
hand side you see that a starting point
is 1.2 gigabytes per second
a much much higher starting point and
we've got a better consistency here so
our reads and writes are both really
consistent the tapering off is very
smooth very consistent and tapers off at
about the same point but actually tapers
off around the same speed that the SSD
starts at two hundred and fifty eight
megabytes per second so we're seeing a
really good throughput they're really
nice consistent result and a really nice
clean tapering off of the speed of that
drive depending on the block size again
I'm mostly interested in sequential
writes that's my thing but I think we've
proven that the KC 1000 is screaming
fast it's it's consistent I'm gonna
really you know I'm gonna let you know a
year from now how things have gone in
the server feel free to ask because
we're gonna be able to improve things
with that improved performance so now
that somebody says to me where's the
bottleneck now so if storage if SATA is
no longer our bottleneck what have we to
bottleneck our system and I think it is
gonna have to go back to the CPU what do
you think so is the central processing
unit now going to become our next
bottleneck again so we're going through
the cycle of you know everything has
gotten fast now I can't think of another
component in there that you know we
haven't seen the same gains but CPUs are
making improvements as well and we're
really starting to see some pretty cool
stuff coming out so let us know let me
know what do you think what do you
predict is going to be the next
bottleneck now that kingston with the kc
1000 has done away with the bottleneck
of the SATA bus so that is the kc 1000
from kingston you can get them at
kingston calm or go through our shop it
would be a great way to support the show
go to category 5 dot TV and click on
support us and you'll see shop with us
or shop in our online store and you'll
be able to find that product or look at
the links below and those are our
partner links which just simply help us
out by giving us a small Commission on
the sale sold ooh predicts that the
bottleneck is now the human operator
[Music]
[Applause]
