hi everyone and welcome to new every day
my name is Kari and my name is Jen and
never you ever had to be honest with
someone over a really tough situation
and it just breaks your heart because
you don't know how to say things
honestly Jen we have to talk about this
honestly this is new every day with Jeff
Maggert and Kari Webb
[Music]
hey everyone thank you for tuning back
into new everyday and we're honestly
going to talk about another
communication life hack from the book of
Proverbs about being honest and telling
the truth and sometimes it's just not
fun oh it is so hard to be like truly
honest sometimes and what's interesting
is one of the ten commandments is do not
lie yeah and we often you know now men
it might not happen as much with you but
when the ladies are trying on clothes
maybe it has happened to men but and
they the lady comes out and says to her
husband so what do you think what do you
think does this make me look fat and the
truth is it does but you would never say
that to her yes that makes you look
handsome no because then that's why you
shop with friends I am fat he just told
me I am fat I wonder if he thinks I'm
fat all the time I am fat I wouldn't
have to lose it I'm done shopping we're
just going home it is you just totally
histrionic everything's blown out of
proportion
well that's why you shop with friends
and you ask friends honestly so I got a
new pair of glasses I was like Jen what
you think of my classes she's like I
think you look like my grandmother do
you remember that I was like you know
what I'm gonna be grandma so I'm gonna
be a cool grandma and that's I'm cool
with it these are not those glasses by
the way in your case you're wondering
those glasses don't make her look like a
grandma because these ones go to one day
you'll see those these aren't the
grandma glasses but what's interesting
is that style is back in yeah and so
what the but she wasn't up at the time
so she there's no those glasses was on
my grandmother's face and so that's why
when I looked at you I went through the
second first so it wasn't my grandmother
me and she's old but this is a new style
yeah just trying to backpedal
and there we go you know what should we
take a break now no I just do you think
it's like it was one of those moments
where I'm thinking do I be honest and
tell her now there have been times where
I've come out wearing something in
Jenna's like that's really not good
do you always wear it like that so my
okay my mom came home with a short
haircut one time and she asked my dad
like what do you think of this and dad
was like oh no she's like do you like it
and he's like do you like it which there
was a whole lot packaged up in that
question it was honestly I don't like it
yes anyways what do you do with that
that's a whole other conversation that I
don't know that's that's superficial
stuff but proverbs 15 is proverbs 15 4
okay I have new King James and it says a
wholesome tongue is a tree of life but
perverseness in it breaks the spirit yes
and so mine says but a deceitful tongue
crushes the spirit hmm because the tough
thing about being honest in
communication so we've already two weeks
ago we talked about team horns and
listening so to be able to listen to
that person to wait till they finish the
sentence
and then last week we talked about
kindness and the importance of asking
the Holy Spirit to wrap around our words
so that there's truth and love and so
they're received well not for it
necessarily so you know we get our way
but when words are wrapped with control
and manipulation then it feels really
awful what when things are wrapped in
kindness then it's for the good of all
those involved yeah because when we
choose to listen when we choose to be
kind then it can help us in being honest
because those are our first two
motivations are to listen so we're going
to seek to understand by listening yeah
but then secondly we want to be kind
yeah because honesty then comes because
something is up
and it needs to be fixed and you aren't
honest then things can just go on and on
and on because you can say well does
this bother you no it doesn't bother me
I'm fine
and but the truth is that person isn't
fine and and they've been ruminating
yeah and kind of on the flip side of
that you know maybe not being honest
with the other person is I know and I
think I've probably shared it on the
show before is that I have the greatest
propensity to be dishonest when I'm
afraid that the truth is going to make
me look bad and I'm going to be
perceived poorly by the other person and
maybe lose credibility or like lose a
friendship or lose some kind of dynamic
within the relationship that's going to
be in me and harmful to me so it's
really it's it's a selfishness and it's
a fear thing and proverbs 26 28 says a
lying tongue hates those it hurts and a
flattering mouth works ruin so like if
I'm lying like I'm trying to preserve
myself but I'm not loving them I'm I'm
hating the other person but we can oh I
can I can do all this mental gymnastics
that says like oh it's actually better
if I just you know trot around the truth
and it doesn't it doesn't work out that
bad and oh I can even feel the same
feelings that I when I've done that in
the past I can feel those same feelings
even now and I just
that's not my that's my old self and I
know I always say that but I want to
remind myself that I don't have to walk
in that way anymore
but when Jesus says he's the truth and
he lives inside me he can equip me to
speak the truth and be honest yes and
and also I also think John that I don't
or blah it's sometimes awkward to be
honest about the wonderful things about
people okay how in that how readily do
we give an honest cop
probably not as frequently do you know
what I mean like if God sees this person
and he he loves these attributes about
them I also want to be honest and like
building that person at like building up
other people and not building up myself
as much you know what I mean see I got a
roundabout way but like yeah see I'm
honest communication often find it more
difficult telling someone what they're
doing is wrong well yeah that's true
seeded that's also turn a pause I want
you to think about that for a moment of
when have you struggled with telling
someone something that's really
happening hmm but you know you gotta be
honest
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequents
by using the links on our website visit
category-five TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching hey and
welcome back to new every day thanks for
staying with us if you go to our website
new every day TV and click on our
partners tab you can see the
organizations businesses that make this
possible you will be supporting category
5 TV and we sit under the umbrella of
category 5 and they make this show
possible
that is so true so we took the break and
I said have you ever had to say
something honestly to someone and he
just didn't know how to say it and I've
honestly just avoided it okay because
I'm a pastor and I'm the high man on the
totem pole which option makes me think
that just means I'm at the top of the
ladder or realize the buck stops with
you at the buck stops with me so often
it's like well could you say something
to them or I feel the responsibility and
say something and I'm like you don't
want to pass the buck to someone else
because that's not fair passing the buck
to someone else when it really is your
responsibility to say something is not
fair so you're not being kind hmm so
I've had to say something like this I
need to have an awkward conversation
with you like do you preface it like
that yes because that way they know that
this is awkward and I really don't want
to say what I'm about to say but I know
I have to say it and this actually
turned out quite well okay because
they're prepared for the awkwardness
they're prepared cuz actually then I
have a little bit more confidence to say
because you know what if I have and I
don't if I have a problem spending that
means don't have each other we don't
have a middleman
not usually let's say you Shelly can you
text Jen she's in a room right now and
just tell her yeah Oh angry on you
because what happens is if something
honestly is wrong
like with Bob Kerrey
I know we're having a problem with Bob
this is what the issue isn't it and we
are in agreement and then we're like so
are you gonna tell him no are you gonna
tell him I don't know I'll be like I
know and the thing is we would let the
situation with Bob go on and on and on
because neither one of us has the guts
to be honest to say what you're doing is
not right see even there I was like what
do I even say because we don't want to
hurt the other person but yet it says
you know when we don't speak honestly we
actually crush that other person's
spirit because they think what they're
doing is perfectly fine and a few weeks
ago Kerri and this is this is a simple
example but Kerri was about to leave the
house and what she was wearing was not
exactly the right combo and so I simply
said is that like you said is that what
you is that how you normally wear that
shirt and she said well actually no I
wear something else with it I'm like
dizzy better change and she's like I
should change I'm like yes you should
change you're not representing well well
we know each other's well stuff that but
even then it was so awkward because I'm
like I it's for her betterment but then
that's that's a trust thing because like
yes it is you know I'm your friend and
I'm gonna say yes tell me the truth yes
but sometimes people don't want to hear
the truth
because that means they're going to have
to change or what they were once doing
they're not they can't do anymore mm-hmm
and that's why it's like it is hard to
be honest it's hard not hmm - I want to
say coat the truth a little bit yeah
because we don't want to hurt the other
person and so we just we let things
carry on and the thing is you can have
doubt that door and made an impression
on someone
that you did not want to make and I've
done the same thing to where I've walked
out and curious like and it would have
been very easy for her to let me go out
the door because she didn't want to say
anything and then I would have made an
impression on someone and that I didn't
want to make and then you know they're
thinking about me in a way that they
shouldn't be thinking about and I'm
singing just I couldn't have been honest
right off the get-go and it's so hard
because we don't want to be rejected for
being honest and you don't hurt see we
think we're hurting the other person but
really we're protecting ourselves yes
it's so true we're protecting ourselves
yeah and I'll and I appreciate in the in
proverbs 15 4 that says a deceitful
tongue crushes the spirit and there's
another verse that says the spirit of a
man can sustain him an illness but a
crush spirit who can bear yes and like I
I don't want to be responsible for
crushing someone's spirit I want to
speak words of life like a tongue that
brings healing is a tree of life and
like life a tree actually like supports
other people so like if I am healthy and
speaking honestly and I think what do
you think about this viewers and Jen
like does that actually start with being
honest with the Lord yes and being
honest with yourself what do you mean
well why do I want why do I not want to
say something because will that reveal
something about me does that if I say
something then that means I'm taking
responsibility for what I'm saying so
does that mean that I have to man up and
do something now if I say something or
do I need to repent of something because
I let it go for so long like that's part
of the problem when I think we're not
honest because then we have to take
there's an obligation there's an
obligation so it's like when your friend
comes out of the change room when you
look at it and you go oh yeah you're
fine because as soon as you say oh no
you need to change then and if she says
what would you help me find something I
was like man
I really thought we could be done with
this by now and now I because I was
honest has gotten me into so much other
problem or or it's like what if you've
just witnessed an accident hmm now
you're if you give a statement
now you're committing yourself to
walking with that person through because
they could call you in as a witness
right where it's sometimes easier just
to walk away and not say anything yeah
but you're not being honest you're
withholding the truth
yeah and that's something that's so
important to remember by withholding the
truth still does not mean that you're
being honest hmm can we often if I don't
say anything it'll be okay it's like no
withholding truth that needs to come out
you're still being dishonest in a way
you know I can think of an example in
the book of Acts when Paul confronted
Peter when Peter he like refused to eat
with the Gentiles Galatians there you go
yeah he refused to eat with them yeah
and Paul was like I rebuked him to his
face out of love because he knew that
what Peter was doing wasn't in keeping
with what the best Jesus had planned for
this awesome family called the church
that was going to integrate all the
people groups and this little seed of
segregation could just destroy that so
out of love he removed Peter and I I
think that's where the wrapping up and
kindness in choosing to be honest calms
gen is that the ultimate good of Paul
intervening there was for the healthy
proliferation of the church and and for
Peter as well to experience the fullness
of the love of God and what he was doing
was going to hinder that yeah and I
think as we begin to close up today
don't turn off your TV or your or your
iPod iPhone galaxy whatever you're
holding or whatever you're holding the
key to to speaking honestly is actually
asking yourself through the powerful
experience am I am I willing to receive
honest communication hmm
because if you aren't on ready or
willing to receive honest communication
then you're not going to give it yeah
and good point and so because sometimes
we can just sort of close ourselves off
and and not want to hear the truth
and so then we aren't willing to give
the truth either and so that's that's a
god moment that's a Holy Spirit moment
that's a dear Jesus please help me to be
willing to hear the truth to receive the
truth to make the changes that comes
from hearing the truth hisses and then
you will know the truth the truth will
set you free
but if we aren't actually willing to
receive the truth then we can't truly be
free and so it's really think
communication is well I'm going to tell
Carrie the truth so she can be free but
then but really it begins in our own
heart hmm am I willing to receive
truthful communication and I'm willing
to make than to receive that truth and
making necessary changes so I can truly
be free or do I just want to live in my
own little world filled with lies and
untruths and just try not to stir the
pot but then you're forever stuck in
mediocrity yes and you're actually in
Chains because you found yourself and I
don't want to live that way if there's a
more full way to live jesus said I have
come you've moved life to the life to
the full and walking in truth and that's
what I I really want yeah we pray for us
Jenn sure if your Lord Jesus helped us
to receive truth help us not to be
afraid to receive truth because we truly
want to be known truly want to be
accepted and that comes by receiving
truth and when we receive truth about
ourselves then that actually helps us to
be kind to others and it's sharing the
truth with them and so father help us to
communicate well both to you to others
and to ourselves we pray this in
amen thank you so much for tuning in
honestly we're really grateful and we're
gonna see you back here same time same
place next week Cheers
unless you're going to be at a different
place and that's okay we'll meet you
there too
see ya cousins if they're in the car
that's fine what happens if they're at a
coffee place what happens if they're at
their mom's what happens if they're
having a Bible sleep this is what
they're watching they just turn on the
cellular device catch a new episode of
new every day every Friday morning at
new every day
dot TV we're also on Kody Roku Plex
YouTube and Facebook or if you're in
Southern California tune in every Sunday
morning at 6:30 Pacific on channel 33
television for the high desert
