it's Wednesday October 19 2016 and here
are the stories were covering this week
firefox and chrome are constantly
writing to disk which could be
shortening your SSDs lifespan a newly
discovered systemd vulnerability could
cause instability in linux systems say
saya a high school student from Japan is
computer generated but you might not
realize it to look at her UK youth UK
officials plan to ram drones into
passenger planes on purpose Verizon's
4.8 billion dollar takeover deal for
Yahoo may be doomed and a drone related
injury could cost the Cleveland Indians
the World Series these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere Jeff
Weston Yemen you're building a brand new
beautiful website what are you all right
you're terrible actor what does we're
acting comes into play I don't know
where I think you're supposed to act
okay I'm building a really cool website
are you building a really cool website
you need hosting one of the things about
a hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
that's true how much hard drive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV / dreamhost
for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the roots are your own com
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
still competitive papers are just don't
do it but hey I
it's a great deal folks best deal you're
going to find five dollars and change
per month go to cap five TV / dreamhost
I'm Sasha terminus and here are the top
stories for the week of October 19 2016
it has been discovered that modern
browsers including Firefox and Chrome
are writing excessively to disk even
when you aren't that your computer the
problem it's quite possibly shortening
the life of your drive we don't need to
go into details about how magnetic hard
drive works in comparison to a solid
state or SSD hard drive but instead
let's focus on the simple fact that your
web browser is adding unnecessary wear
and tear Firefox and Chrome have a
fantastic sometimes life saving future
session restore the browser constantly
saves the current browser state such as
how many browser windows are open number
of tabs what urls you are on and the
contents of each of those pages if the
browser crashes or you reboot your
computer with the browser still open it
simply reload all the content from the
session the session in store as if it
had nothing as if nothing had happened
the problem is that Firefox is saving
the state every 15 seconds and
unfortunately it's not doing so
inefficient manner it seems to simply be
saving everything each time whether
anything has changed or not and it's
saving the actual contents of the page
if you have a large page with lots of
images on it the session restore feature
will write all of that over and over
again to disk it's even saving this
information when the computer is idle
the person who discovered this left
Firefox open with a few browser windows
and tabs open and found Firefox writing
about 10 gigabit gigabytes of that at
each day and it turns out chrome is
writing even more up to 20 gigabytes per
day that is an excessive amount of
writes dear SSD to be fair when the
session restore feature was implemented
most people were still using traditional
magnetic hard drives however now that
SSD has taken over the world this
clearly is a problem while a number of
users are changing the interval through
the browser settings we don't recommend
this if you rely on the session restore
feature instead you can either move your
browser's temporary storage to a
magnetic drive a separate perhaps
cheaper SSD that you don't mind
replacing if wear and tear takes it out
or just hang tight until the browser
authors come up with a better solution
such as checking if a session has
changed before saving it to disk funny
little story about this actual news
story is that while I was pre reading
the news today hmm um I had just
recently done an update to my chrome on
my laptop and chrome shut down
unexpectedly Oh which was kind of ironic
and awesome because then when I opened
it again it said did you want to restore
a nose there you go it's like oh in
touche news yeah one for the news hmm
linux users are being warned about a
recent recently discovered systemd
vulnerability that could shut down a
system using a command short enough to
send in a tweet if left on patch the
flaws could allow a remote attacker to
crash the system or retrieve delicate
information update your systems
immediately ssl mate founder and linux
administrator Andrew ire spotted the bug
which has the potential to kill a number
of critical commands while making others
unstable i er said a vulnerability like
this shouldn't be possible in such an
important operating system component and
wouldn't be possible if system d were
better designed he added that there is
cause for concern especially as system d
replaces more and more components of the
linux operating system a patch has
reportedly been released on github and
canonical and canonical announced a
series of patches that can immediately
be applied to a Bluetooth based these
distros
so that's good news also good news that
it came out in the news so quick so
thank you because now we can we can fix
it then and quick all right japanese
high school students aya has flawless
skin shiny hair and her uniform is
always clean that's not surprising since
your parents or computer graphics
artists who work together to design
their own virtual child when SIA was
first unveiled about a year ago by
creators Terry you tear Yuki and you got
ashaka she blew viewers away she's so
realistic from her perfectly crafted
features and the ultra high detailed
skin to the way the light catches each
individual strand of hair people were
scratching their heads in amazement this
month has seen saiah get an upgrade of
sorts bringing her into the moving world
this video size shown at this year's
seatac or combined exhibition of
advanced technologies shows her smiling
and nodding at the camera it is said
that SIA CGI designer parents have
effectively bridged the uncanny valley
the term refers to our natural sense of
unease around things that are almost but
not quite human like robots or CGI
children for that matter the parents
have created a character that's both
appealing and fascinating to look at and
I agree she is incredible and has
perfect hair and great posture and when
she actually does turn around at the
computer or at the commuter at us and
and blanks it's not that creepy weird
blink enos like that I don't know I'm an
uncanny valley victim I find myself
completely creeped out by things like
badly implemented the CGI from when I
was a kid yeah there was that one there
was I was like a christmas movie and
there was a train and there were people
that looked almost oh yes you know where
those things are terrible the poor
animations oh yeah you know that when I
tell ya
the one that had yeah Tom Hanks you're
talking yeah Tom Hanks the Orient
Express oh yeah was it whichever one it
was I gave me nightmares sleepy yeah the
uncanny valley is not my friend not so
much with Messiah though SIA pretty real
yeah I I would be proud to call her my
daughter okay except you'd be crazy well
she has parents right parents yeah I bet
you she likes are in movies and stuff I
wonder if right because if she's a model
quite literally a 3d model then you
could just import her into movie sets
and why don't more video games and stuff
I'd be neat should be a superhero and I
want her to do anything I wonder to H
also that'd be so much work oh my
goodness ok after a number of close
calls in recent months UK officials are
committed to safety testing drones that
share the air with passenger jets by
crashing them into one another
mid-flight committing more than 250,000
pounds or 304979 5,000 square miles of
restricted airspace in snowdonia wales
dr peter downer of the ministry of
defense says we are conducting mid-air
collision studies for the CAA to look at
impact of aircraft with unmanned
vehicles there is a series of trials
about the security risks and we need to
continue this with a commercial study
there will be further studies of midair
collisions of drone impact with fuselage
and windows according to the national
air traffic service there are now more
than two million drones competing for
airspace in Britain many more are set to
come online in the coming years and
testing on empty flights is an attempt
to learn more about the potential
ramifications if one of Britain's
reported 23 near misses over a six-month
period were to actually make contact
Wow the next web calls it a toddler
mentality of ramming things together to
see what happens can I just say yes if
those are unmanned planes that they are
ramming the drones into yes does that
not make those unmanned planes drones
the world's biggest most expensive
drones I guess so hmm I like the idea of
this only because you not only because
it's awesome cuz it's awesome and you
can only what if so much until you watch
it you flew a teeny drone in a school
lunchroom right yeah you have to do it
to see ya Oh c128 d is so going to
comment I hate you yeah I like this I I
think we should do this more we an
experiment I got lots of drones yes fry
them in the den that's our new YouTube
channel flying drones in the thigh
actually think I would fail miserably at
this you know how hard it would be to
actually hit another flying drone with
your drone unless it was him yeah like a
passenger airplane yeah what if it hits
the window what if it hit let's aim for
the window then I've got you a really
fun job to have okay just so you know
the drone would explode the plane would
probably be okay pretty sure yeah pretty
sure they make those reasonably strong
mm-hmm verizon in july said it would by
yahoo 44.8 three billion dollars and
merge it with AOL since that time yahoo
has faced a lot of bad press earlier
this month news reports said the US
government had yahoo surveil user emails
for intelligence information and last
month yahoo disclosed hacker swipes
personal information associated with at
least half a billion yahoo accounts
marking the biggest data breach in
history
now verizon's general counsel has told
some reporters including the Washington
Post that they are leaning toward
declaring Yahoo's huge data breach a
material event that likely means verizon
wouldn't have offered as much money or
made a bid for Yahoo at all had it had
known about the hack earlier the
Washington Post said Thursday the
decision is likely to will halt the
acquisition smart move verizon General
General Counsel's Craig's silly man said
I think we have a reasonable basis to
believe right now that the impact is
material and we're looking to yahoo to
demonstrate to us the full impact if
they believe that it's not they'll need
to show us that but the process is in
the works a verizon spokesman when asked
if a material find and kill the
acquisition said that statement stands
on its own nothing more I really
honestly think that when I heard about
this breach I thought is there any way
they can backtrack and get out of this I
really hmm then I guess I'll either is
if there's a material I don't know what
exactly sure but Yahoo bye-bye yeah your
biggest asset is your users yeah which
you don't have anymore bye-bye Yanks
goodbye all right yeah the weakest link
yeah goodbye off the island okay
baseball has been played for more than
150 years but Monday night marked a
historic milestone the first time a
professional player has to leave a game
due to a drone injury Trevor Bauer a
self-described drone fanatic and one of
the top pitchers for the Cleveland
Indians had to leave game 3 of the
American League Division Series just
after after just two outs and 21 pitches
into the first inning after the pinky
finger on his pitching hand started
bleeding profusely
Bauer cut his finger on a drone rotor
last week he was originally scheduled to
start Game two on Saturday against the
Toronto Blue Jays but was pushed back a
game in hopes that the injury would heal
enough that he could play on Sunday
Bauer brought the offending drone to a
news conference in Toronto where he
explained what happened saying so it
plugged it in like I've done thousands
and thousands of times and for whatever
reason it was just sitting like this and
I was plugging in the battery and my
finger just happened to be right here
and for whatever reason these three
propellers didn't spin like they were
supposed to and this one's frets that
spun up to max throttle it never
happened to me before I have no idea why
it happened and my finger just happened
to be in the way of the prop and it cut
me unless you can heal quickly his drone
javi could have a huge impact on the
Indians chances to win their first ever
World Series since nineteen forty eight
though cleveland won monday's game
Bauer's injury will force the team to
rework it's already injury-depleted
pitching rotation hmm I am a big fan of
the Toronto Blue Jays so cut them up
with drones those Indians I'm like your
finger just happened to be there because
the Blue Jays deserve first of all dude
that is a homebrew homebrew drone so if
something went wrong probably your fault
yeah you built it yourself yeah I'm
pretty sure that in his press conference
the way I read it anyway he was
definitely blaming himself he was
definitely admitting yes I've done it
thousands and thousand and it just so
happy I'm just glad to see I am glad to
see that the props are actually a fixed
to that drone because as soon as I heard
this story my first thought was why
would you fire up your drone with the
props on because at least typically you
would fire up a larger drone with the
props off right the motors spin up but
there aren't any propellers on them
right so it wouldn't cut you yeah well
maybe that's his next upgrade maybe this
is what the Blue Jays needed because
it's been looking good well there are 3
and 0 against the Indians so the Indians
are winning by a landslide up until the
show started yeah but they're playing
right now right so yeah yeah I don't
know I don't know either I'm glad that
we don't find out actually well we're on
arabic yeah and I just somebody out
there probably knows the results the
game unless is still long please don't
tell me it's real life yeah big thanks
this week to Albert to Albuquerque
turkey Roy w nash and frank / brittany
and our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us if you found a
new story that you'd like to send email
at to newsroom at category 5 TV for all
your tech news with a slight linux
biased visit the category 5 TV news room
at newsroom category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room I'm Sasha
through made us
