welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 506 for Wednesday
the 31st of May 2017 nice to see ya in
tonight we're going to be continuing our
series two part series mind you on
encrypting and external device for our
backups for whatever we want but it
keeps our files private and unaccessible
to other people but tonight we're going
to learn how to make it so that on our
computer our trusted computer we don't
have to enter that password every time
we just plug it in and it works just
like normal so stick around for all
about how that works
Sashadhar made us what do you got for us
tonight well here's what's coming up in
the category 5 TV newsroom a new found
next point in Windows NT FS
implementation will crash the machine by
simply including a short string within
an image tag on a website a French
school is using facial recognition to
find out when students aren't paying
attention a newfound malware on Android
devices could be on your phone and Intel
has already surpassed AMD's thread
ripper stick around the full details are
coming up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV our
live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in live every week on roku
cody and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV Flash TPN and the International
Association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV /ia IV welcome to the show I'm Ravi
Ferguson nice to have you here cash
would remain us over here hello Jeff
Weston hi and directing tonight you
can't see him but he's there Henry
Bailey Brown hi Henry
your inspiration yell loudly I
[Music]
hey we've got a fun show planned for you
tonight first of all let's get into it
finally made the step what 100% Linux at
work really awesome how do you him I
know so what was hold me back
you know what Photoshop right yeah you
Photoshop that was the one thing that I
needed a Windows virtual machine for and
so I booted up and I would do my
Photoshop and stuff and the reason for
that as you remember if you watch the
show a couple weeks back do a little
quick search there is Photoshop has
really good
scaling right jimp traditionally has had
very lossy scaling so when you resize
images they get very blurry now with
gimp 2.9 point five they got it right
really fantastic it works great I love
it
and I uninstalled Adobe Photoshop oh and
you feel free oh yeah but more is just a
like it was like a statement to press
that uninstall button yeah it's like are
you sure because then you won't be able
to use Photoshop okay yeah I'm sure that
it's fully my expense but that is what I
am here for so do you still have your
windows vm or is that gone too
no I still have the windows VM but I
don't need it for work stuff now oh I
mean we still use it for various things
so don't cut that cord man yeah no
that's a good but I don't I don't need
it in my day today this is what I do
kind of life
okay I'm strictly just booting up in the
Linux only like you're holding on to the
past no come on now still no not no I'm
totally not so that was a good feeling
yeah huge oh yeah this week we also made
a big change to our patreon page right I
don't know if you saw this or not but if
you're a patron maybe you did we've made
some tweaks there now I've had this idea
kind of cultivating in the back of my
mind where I want to do more than just
category-five technology TV on patreon
but I realize most of our patronage
probably comes from patrons from
category-five viewers yeah so from
yes 100% over paginated on PageRank oh
yeah 100% it's true and so that's why I
did the poll a little while ago saying
you know why are you here and I think
almost everyone said category five
technology TV right a couple that are
that are there for new every day and a
couple other shows that we produce here
category 5 so I was trying to figure out
okay well I can't I can't post new every
day and have the patrons billed for it
and then post category 5 technology TV
and have them build for it and array the
pixel shadow and have them build for it
because then all of a sudden you've got
this big bill on the weeks where we
produce a lot of video so how do I get
our other content onto our patreon page
right so starting last week I guess with
our with our most current show now once
a week once everything has aired our
patron our patreon page will be updated
with all of the shows on one post so
it's still jokes still just one billable
post per week and that is going to it's
going to mainly feature category 5
technology TV because that's our big
show our flagship and then it's got the
category 5 TV newsroom yeah it does have
new every day it's got the pixel shadow
when we produce that and it also has
individual clips from category 5 tech TV
so for example when we do an interview
if you want to share just that interview
you can just grab that one clip you
don't have to share the entire video of
the one-hour episode so I think that
should help them a lot I do welcome your
feedback I'd love to hear from you what
you think about the new format it's just
you know it's going to evolve over time
and it's something that I'm really
working on to try to bring you more
content if you if you don't know what
the new format is you become a patron a
patreon patron on patreon I know it's so
confusing you do that and then you will
know what we're talking about for what
it's worth I noticed the change and I
was like oh it normally doesn't come in
like this right I like to get a one app
yeah I liked it it was nice to see more
stuff on I realize I'm biased but still
that's me and all those clips look what
I have nothing to do every day whatever
I wasn't on that but no I did enjoy it
was nice to see I was like oh look at
that there's a new
or Matt oh yeah yeah cool very cool good
way to get more of our content out there
for absolutely and thank you to everyone
who has been supporting us it's the last
day of the month if you want to throw a
little extra in the tip jar to help us
with rent tomorrow please do you can go
to donate dot category-five dot TV we've
had some additional expenses this week
and this month in particular and some
unexpected expenses as you know and we
are donation supported the advertising
that we have here it does support us in
in some ways and chomping through our
partners is a great way to support us as
well you go to category five dot TV
click on support us and you'll see all
the different ways that we have there in
order to pitch him I'm going to do that
I'm going to buy an electric toothbrush
it's going to be amazing
yeah and then I'll bring it in and show
from it probably don't want to see an
Elmo yes Michael refresh electric so
what's special about this toothbrush
that you're going to order it online
well it's it's Bluetooth compatible see
your toothbrush yes or what do you
download an app and then your toothbrush
gives you feedback on how well you're
doing like the food girl hydrosis yeah
are you kidding me come on no I'm not
kidding you and it's really expensive so
I couldn't do it just as a regular
purchase so it's a reward purchase so I
sold my car and now I've learned it to
just bite my dress I'm not sign my car
for tooth fairy
my teeth are starting to decay I got to
do something about this sell my car so
it's a my congratulations so you'll see
that pop up so this is like this is
Sasha's robotic toothbrush so now I have
to get out of bed or does it do
everything fixes so caps on and brushes
my tea is this an effort for you to like
send a report to dances and say I'm kid
I don't need to get my dentist actually
suggested and does not get any money for
their the recommendation that I get one
you do yes because I brush too
aggressively so this toothbrush will
tell you thank you if I set the
sensitivity and if I brush too hard it
shuts it down and then it gives me like
a bad reader I usually shamed so I don't
want bad feedback for my good brush if
you brush
your Fitbit hand yeah that give you
steps hidden now see when you said it
was Bluetooth I was thinking it syncs up
for music so as you're brushing your TV
just like music in the through the
faster you drive or you know impactful
the song is there also slow brushing of
the climbs you do it'll be like yeah
just wait my T's are going to be so
white and pearly and shiny and clean
will stay very good alright tonight we
are looking back at our secure backup
Drive now I want to reiterate we use
this Kingston DataTraveler USB Drive
just for the sake of the demonstration
my actual reason for choosing this is
because it's only 16 gigs I'm stuffy so
it's hard to say 16 gig Howler's each
exam it's only 16 gigs so it was really
really quick to pull together a
presentation we didn't have to wait to
format a terabyte drive kind of thing so
that's my reason for choosing it but you
may be using an external hard drive you
may be using something over ESAT a it
could even be an internal hard drive
that you're that you're doing this with
it doesn't really matter but for our
demonstration we're using this USB Drive
I just want to be clear that it can be
anything as long as it's a partition in
your Linux system so tonight what we're
going to learn as I promised last week
is how can we now set this up so that it
is accessible on our system without
having to constantly enter the password
so what it boils down to is hey we want
to backup our server for example good
example from this perspective we want to
have a drive that we can back up all of
our server files to and then unmount it
take it somewhere put in a safety
deposit box so if it gets stolen along
your data sticks me a lot of video
because of category 5 right pause a box
well it's just an example let me do the
example thing here Jeff so I'm put these
out again someone's going to go oh yeah
that's a good idea because you know
here's why you've got all your family
photos on this you've got them on your
computering you feel confident that hey
I've got two copies and now it's my
computer fries I'm safe right on the
house burns down
and you don't ever want that to happen
obviously but having this somewhere else
is a really good plan
right if it's well away from everything
else so now so looking at the server
idea if I have a server set up that I
want to back this up on my linux server
that's my backup and it copies all the
files over and then I can take it and
it's encrypted so if someone steals it
or it gets lost they can't open the file
so it's still person that's still
private but the thing is is if I plug
that back into the server maybe it
doesn't have a monitor right and I can't
type the password or I can't do those
kinds of things I want it to
automatically mount to that system or at
least be able to just to go sudo mount
dash a and it will mount it and I don't
have to manually enter the password
every time when connected to that server
but then still have it so that if I
checked it from that take it home plug
it into my home computer I have to enter
the password there right for safety
reasons right yep so tonight we're going
to learn how to take this and make it so
that we do not have to enter the
password on our system that could be the
server that could be our comparable
notebook or whatever it is Jeff I'm
sorry we are going to have to look at
some loops dumps tonight you know what I
think I got out of the right system line
you got it okay yep you watched back and
you laughed hysterically a couple times
to show the kids I showed the kid yes I
showed my wife
I spent time just having giggles to
myself watch it like four or five times
we all like yeah I showed get out
of my system because I knew we were
going to be talking about yes like
desensitize yourself I showed Dave and
he's like I need to spend more time on
the show like he wants to come watch
live now and every time he comes I'm so
nervous I never say anything like oh
yeah yeah it was so much fun yeah okay
but it's out of my system we're all good
so that said if you haven't seen it yet
this is part two and it is very much
part two if you have not seen part one
yet please go back I've got the the link
up there if you're watching on YouTube
or of course you can go to our website
category five dot TV and you can
watch episode number 505 make sure you
do that first okay otherwise none of
this is going to work none of it's going
to make sense
so get your saying is this is the
episode that's Luke and WH you 2.0
number 2 nigga
link number 2 be a sec okay here we are
on my computer you can plug in the USB
flash drive here and it should ask me
for the password great right I'm going
to say forget password immediately
because we don't want to have to log out
every time here on the air so I'm going
to enter my password and if it all went
well
there we go no typos tonight my friends
okay so what I want to do is make it so
that I no longer have to do that I don't
want to have to enter a password every
time I plug it into this computer so
let's see what we can do here so bring
up our terminal we're doing everything
to do with this particular tutorial in
our Linux terminal cool so I'm going to
create I'm going to create a super user
login by typing sudo su on my debian are
on my Ubuntu system on Debian it would
just be su as we learned last week so
first of all if you go into / root you
see there's nothing in that folder there
might be I don't care but I just wanted
to show you that there is currently on
my system nothing there I'm going to
create something now I'm going to
actually create a random key file so
it's a big long crazy binary string
that's going to be used as a key
literally like an actual key to unlock
this drive and we're going to add that
piece like that on the screen now I
don't know maybe we'll see it depends on
your GUI but we're doing this in the
terminal Jeff oh yeah all right so we're
going to create that file so we're gonna
go DD that's like disk destroy or disk
duplicate or whatever you're doing with
it it can do both in file equals slash
dev slash random
pardon me dev slash u random because we
want it to be ultra random actually does
not mean that it just is a good way to
do it but a good way to remember write
ultra random
it's the better randomness okay so out
file oh pardon me Oh x equals and we're
going to go I'm in the root folder but
just for the sake of being accurate
/root slash and we're going to call this
my USB key let's just do that now we're
going to say BS how much BS do we want
this file to have a lot of BS yeah we're
going to give it a whole lot of BS
that's 1024 is what we're going to do
and then the next count equals four and
then hit enter and what that's going to
do is is actually going to generate a
thousand twenty four bits of data within
this file check it out I'm going to cat
it USB key it's already created it was
instant so you see how much gibberish
that is that's actually our key so good
luck remembering it
good luck typing that in if you're
trying to hack into my flash drive I
don't even know how to pronounce those
boxes yeah you know like something that
you would actually put on the newsdesk
Godwin old from yeah you had yes to
pronounce that tonight he does things
like that go you can get that yeah
that's the name of the guy who invented
so with that key now we're going we
learned last week at the end of the set
of the show that we have when we create
a Luke's dump right crypt setup Luke's
dump slash dev slash SD I'm assuming
this is still s DB oh I may have to I
unmounted it so it may be
I may have to unplug it and plug it back
in again because the dev is actually
gone LS dev slash SD star now as DB one
is there so okay so if I do a Luke's
dump sorry Jeff
so like I said I've set up instead of my
system is it okay good good he's not
snickering we don't you're holding
something in your hand and you're
squishing it no it's I have to ditch it
I'm a fidgeter so a USB M that's your
fidget spinner thank you yes yeah
SERP setup Luke's dump remember that
from last week I do
remember that do you capital D and
/dev / SBB 1 enter okay so what we
learned at the end of this segment last
week is that we've got key slot 0 that
is the actual password for our device
that's when I plugged it in and asked me
for a password that's key slot 0 ok key
slot 1 is currently disabled so what I
want to do is I want to actually add my
key file which I've just created USB key
- key slot 1 the way I'm going to do
that is crypt setup remember I am super
user right now Luc's
ad key dev slash SD b1 in my case it may
be different for you don't forget that
okay and then the key file is root / USB
dot key enter this is asking me for my
existing password now because guess what
encryptions not going to let me add a
key file that allows me to decrypt the
drive if I don't already know the key
right otherwise where's the security
someone said in on some forums he said
I've lost my password can I add a key
file so that I can open the drive well
you lost your password so how how secure
would it be if that was allowed right
because then there's no security at all
anyone could just add a key file and
boom they open your drive just a little
bit of know-how so this was a lot more
secure than that enter your existing
password I only have the one so that's
why any existing password is D password
right so now it's actually uploading
into the headers of that partition that
key file so now if I do a Luke stump you
see key slot 1 is now enabled so I can
now open that drive decrypt it using
either of those two key slots my
password is key slot 0 and my key file
is key slot 1 so those are both now a
trip
to that drive I can open it with either
or okay so now what I need to do is I
need to heard of a UUID a unique
identifier for a drive a partition we
need to know the unique identifier for
our Luc's partition our encrypted
partition so the command is a little bit
different it's not VLK ID instead what
we're going to do is crypt set up luke's
UUID slash dev slash SBB 1 and that
gives me the unique identifier for this
particular drive so I need to grab that
I'm lucky because I'm actually in a suit
sort of a pseudo terminal window here so
I can actually copy and paste and grab
things into my clipboard because I'm
going to need that there are other ways
around that if you don't have a
clipboard I'm sure you can figure it out
you write it down as long as you're very
good at typing because you're going to
need to put it in verbatim ok so now we
need to edit our Crypt tab notice it's
equipped tab not a FS tab so we need to
first set up that the cryptography
decrypts this drive so that FS tab our
filesystem table is able to mount it
automatically
okay so /et c / crypt tab it already
exists so I can just hit tab to enter it
but there's nothing in that file so I
need to type USB in my case I'm going to
call this what I'm actually doing there
is I'm assigning at the name USB so
that's what this is going to be referred
to from now on and then the device UUID
so slash dev slash disk slash by - UUID
just like you'd see in an FS tab and
then I'm going to paste in the UUID that
I copied from earlier and then the
location of the key file so /root slash
USB key now notice it's called USB and
my device is also called USB that could
be anything I want it to be called it's
not related at all ok and then at the
end of the line
Luc's and that's that's all we need
right it out ctrl o and then ctrl X to
exit I could reboot my computer now if I
want those changes to take effect to my
crypt tab but I can also just
start the the drives as well and that's
going to make it it's going to make it
happen without having to reboot so crypt
setup no it's not crypt setup actually
this time it's crypt disks start
USB is what I call this one encrypt
disks underscore start there we go crypt
disks underscore start USB so now USB is
in fact started so if I go let's just go
into CD slash home slash Robbie that's
my home folder I'm going to make a
folder make derp and I'm going to call
this one USB decrypted just so that you
know what it what it is you can call
that whatever you want it to be you
might call it backup for example so now
I'm going to go into that folder we've
learned this command before but watch
what happens this is a folder on my dry
on my computer and it doesn't currently
have anything mounted so if I touch
something now that file exists so I
don't want that to be the case because
if I accidentally write something to
that folder while the drive is unplugged
and unmounted it's going to then make it
so that it can no longer necessarily
access the mount point or I'm going to
get confused thinking that it's mounted
to this not because there looks like
there's files right so instead I'm just
going to make it so that remove that
test file that I created to the folder
is empty I'm going to go CH attr plus I
dot and the dot represents current
folder because that's the folder that
I'm in so did nothing to the folder but
watch what happens if I touch test again
setting times of TAS no such file or
directory LS there's no file it made it
so that I cannot create files in this
folder now once I mount the drive on it
now I'm going to be able to place files
on the drive because it's not going to
have that chatter okay so let's open our
FS tab this is where things get fun
folks FS tab here we go so now we're
going to be using our our mapper that is
called USB so we don't need to know the
the UUID anymore that's all done through
crypt
now what we're going to use is the
mapper slash USB so it's going to be a
little bit different here so we're going
to in our line here slot you can comment
if you want but I'm just going to go
slash dev slash mapper slash USB
I keep wanting to type backup because
that's usually what I call it and then
where I want to mount it so we're going
to go slash home slash Robi and this is
going to be different for you USB
decrypted I believe I called it and then
space ext3 is I believe what we
formatted it last week ext3 and ext4 are
interchangeable so it's not going to
hurt anything if I got it wrong between
the two that's okay and then here's
where things get a little bit complex
folks defaults alright that seems pretty
generic no fail that one's important to
me the reason is if this drive is not
presently mounted to my system and I
reboot that system if I don't have no
fail in the mounting line on the FS tab
it's going to keep trying to mount that
drive and it's going to hang up the
system and it won't be able to boot it
may timeout after a thousand minutes or
something but you don't want to have
that happen so no fail says you know
what if it's not connecting just move
along folks move along and so that's a
good thing to include on the line then
comma RW because we want it to be
readable and writeable comma user comma
X - system D dot device - timeout equals
five do you notice that that works
alongside of the no fail as I was
explaining and this says hey if it does
not connect within five seconds move on
thank you very much and we do not want
to scan it so we're just going to put
the zero space at zero okay hit ctrl o
to write that out and then hit control X
and then type mount - a keeping in mind
that again I'm still super user
so I can just press can mount - eh I
don't need to use sudo and I'm going to
hit enter this is the moment of truth
folks are you ready for it we need some
yeah ting music here here we go
did nothing absolutely nothing no I did
something because there was no error
okay I'm just joking
that was a was a joke os nothing it
thank you I'll be here all night
ah touch test no such file or directory
okay so it's not mounted mount let's see
what's happening
dabbe / mapper / USB mounted as ext3 on
Robbie USB decrypted that looks right
you mount USB decrypted let's look at
the permissions here root root okay
mount - eh nothing changed there we go
Irie what happened there notice now
there's a lost and found so now if I go
into it
touch task now it works and I'll show
you why that was I was in the folder
when I typed the mount - a command so
it's it's like when something is locked
and it can't do anything with it because
it's currently in use I for the sake of
the demonstration I was in the folder
you won't be when you reboot your system
so that's why it didn't work there so by
going up one folder doing the mount - eh
again now it worked so did you notice a
couple of things here I'm going to I'm
going to cruise my my host here what was
different about this time when I mounted
it versus the first time tonight did you
catch it
no and I plugged in the USB Drive the
first time what happened it asks for a
password ask for a password when I type
mount - eh what happened there was no
password you'll pass the requirement my
friends yes - the cheat sheet yeah
cheechee homebody all right so there you
have it folks of that drive is now all
set so now CD dot you mount USB
decrypted now if I look in there there's
not going to be any
file okay so now I'm going to physically
remove the drive okay and we're going to
plug it back in to my computer error
unlocking that's interesting I wasn't
sure what was going to happen from the
GUI perspective interesting so I think
the GUI in this particular case kind of
messes with the drive let's take a look
here
wrong FS type what do we format it last
week the xt4 maybe actually yeah I think
it was girl was the xt3 was it three
yeah so let's just see here so it
doesn't want to mount it in the GUI oh
you know what I did you didn't take a
look stone I didn't need to but what I
didn't do is I didn't stop the
cryptography on the drive and I
unplugged it so we got to think we got
to think in terms of now there's two
parts to this we've got cryptography and
we've got mounting like that as a drive
right so what I need to do is crypt
disks underscore stop USB you mount okay
so now now that that's done I'm going to
just zoom out just in case I don't think
it's melted not mounted unplug I've got
it unplugged I do plug it back in now
crypt disks oh-oh-oh-oh I need you have
to start it no it just popped right up
okay let's try that again folks eject
I'm just going to eject that just going
to unmount it just like a normal USB
Drive so yeah this is what's fun about
that everybody there's a password
required in order to unmount it all
because it's route obviously there we go
okay can I
okay cancelled cancelled cancelled
alright let's close everything there we
go
we're back at square whoa I'm having a
camera guy there's the flash drive okay
we're going to take this now after our
two-part demonstration and I go plug
this in to the computer in three two one
it's in huh
very she'll there's my test file did not
ask for a password and we're good to go
so now this Drive anything that I put on
this drive now it didn't ask me for a
password on my computer what is going to
ask if you plug it into your laptop
Sascha it's gonna ask you for the
password you're able to open it very
cool there you have it folks
I hope you enjoyed this this two-part
series this is a great way to protect
your data I always fear you know if
you're doing backups if you're keeping
private stuff and it doesn't have to be
private like you think about private and
it's you know private secret stuff well
no I don't want someone getting their
hands on a drive that's full of my
family photos it's kind of clean right
like it's not there's anything there
it's what it's kind of creepy applies I
mean you don't want anybody to be just
picking up a drive and checking to see
what's on it so you might as well know
you know and and this way I don't have
to really worry about what's on it like
it may have a spreadsheet with some of
my passwords in it it may have a
spreadsheet that has some accounting
data or something like that and I just I
feel a lot safer now that my drive is
fully encrypted so it works on my USB
flash drive perfect it works on your
external USB Drive it works on your
internal hard drives it works on your
eSATA removable drive that your hot-swap
and it works on anything that you're
going to be storing your data on on
Linux so check it out this is category
five technology TV thanks for tuning in
tonight this our website is category
five dot TV Sasha can we head over to
the newsroom we I know what you've got
for us tonight absolutely all right here
are the stories were covering this week
the category-five TV newsroom a new five
exploit in Windows and Kiev s
implementation will crash the machines
by simply including a short string
within an image on a website a French
find out whether students find out when
students aren't paying attention a new
found malware on Android devices could
be on your phone and Intel has already
surpassed AMD's thread Ripper these
stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Weston Gellin
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website
what are you no all right you're
terrible actor what does where acting
comes into play I don't know what Isaac
you're supposed to act okay fair enough
I don't really cool website are you
building a really cool website you need
hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roof of your own
con dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site five sign up cap 5 GB flash
DreamHost
still fulfill the papers on it just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're going to find 5
dollars and change per month put a cap 5
dot TV / dream host
I'm Sasha tomatoes and here are the top
stories for the week of May 31st 2017
it's been a bad month for Windows 7
users the widespread wanna cry
ransomware hit a ton of Windows 7
machines and now a new bug has been
discovered that will slow down and crash
Windows 7 and Windows 8
the bug allows a malicious website to
try and load an image file with the
dollar side an MS key name in the
directory path windows uses a dollar
sign MFT for special metadata files that
are used by NTFS file system and windows
7 and Windows 8 fail to handle this
directory name correctly the bug has
been tested on Windows 7 PC with the
default Internet Explorer browser using
the file named C colon slash dollar sign
MFT slash 1 2 3 in a website image the
test cause the machine to slow down to
the point where you have to reboot in
order to get it working again some
machines may even blue screen eventually
as the file system looks to that file
and all other apps are unable to access
files the strange bug doesn't affect
Windows 10 users and it's similar to an
old problem in Windows 95 and windows 98
where references to C : flash con flash
con would crash a machine the NTFS bug
appears to have been discovered early
last week and have been reported to
Microsoft it's not clear when Microsoft
will deliver a fix for the problem but
it affects Windows Vista which is
unsupported Windows 7 and Windows 8
machines Wow
that's do we want to like see how easy
it is for someone to compromise this in
like two seconds flat I'll just show you
what we're talking about here so I'm
going to go to our website category 5
dot TV alright so on our website you see
let's say our logo up at the top here
right so if I inspect that you can see
that that is image class default logo
and then there's this file HTTP colon
CDN Zechariah
Khanh flash image / p7 love a lot that's
our actual logo so what they're saying
is is by simply replacing that string
that is our logo URL with this simple C
colon slash dollar sign MFT slash
whatever it will actually bring this
system to a halt unbelievable that is
just being discovered now yeah but then
again who would think to do that who
would think to do it but now that it's
known and not patched right so many
images anyone can put that onto a
website it's just an image tag so sasha
was asking okay well do I need to click
on it do I need to do anything in order
to have that exploit happen remember
that class yeah and no the answer's no
it's just like when you go to our
website there's our logo it shows up you
didn't have to click on it to have it
all of a sudden load on the screen now
I guess the initial question that most
people would think of is why would you
make your website something that crashes
people's computers because you're
malicious right specifically because
you're malicious why do websites
distribute malware well exactly but what
I'm wondering is could somebody
theoretically take this and say you know
what I'm going to put this code in my
image so that nobody can steal my image
and if they do it crashes their osan
it's not an it's not part of the image
it's in the image tag that tells it
where the location of the image file is
I get that but you couldn't throw that
like because I know a lot of times you
get websites will link to other images
could you put that in there you know is
that I guess across from your site to
know you oh yeah you it would crash your
site you could someone could hide it
through JavaScript where someone could
make it so that a legitimate image
becomes this string if the user has a
certain criteria they could have it
detect if the user is using Windows 7
and they are located in Barrie Ontario
through geolocation changed the logo to
this string and therefore crash their
computer right so they could do that
yeah through JavaScript that would be
easy enough Wow mm-hmm it is crazy do
you have better news for us I do
Wow
depends on here a student Business
School in Paris will soon begin using
artificial intelligence and facial
analysis to determine whether students
are paying attention in class
the software called nester will be used
in two online classes at the ESG
Business School beginning in September
LLC a learning the company that created
Nestor presented the technology at an
event at the United Nations in New York
two weeks ago the idea according to LCA
founder Marcel Fawcett is to use the
data that Nestor collects to improve the
performance of both students and
professors this the software uses the
students webcams to analyze eye
movements and facial expressions and
determine whether students are paying
attention to a video lecture it then
formulates quizzes based on the content
covered during moments of
inattentiveness professors would also be
able to identify moments when students
attention waned which could help to
improve their teaching ok I was
wondering where this was going I was
thinking you know what's to stop them
from having it running in the background
and just be watching a YouTube video
right but then and what is still to stop
them because they may be attentive to
that but because it quizzes them right
something you said there is interesting
though it it quizzes them on the
questions that were covered during the
moments of unattentive Ness yes so very
smart super sneaky so it's the system
the AI thinks oh they're not paying
attention right now generates a list of
questions how far how smart is yeah if
you get those dollar-store glasses that
look like those really big open eyes cuz
you just need to upward here considering
you can like break into two-factor
authentication with a picture right yeah
I guess oh yeah wow that guy's really
watching your eyes so you've got a but
people would learn it's like the lie
detector test and people who have been
trained to overcome it you couldn't you
just like learn to be like right
thinking about stuff and just it's like
what you're doing right now but the
first question that comes to my head is
are these tests gradable and if so
that that in turn create a legal
liability where somebody I don't even
know if that's the intention no Jack no
maybe not but like imagine rolling this
out it's a law school sure tomato so
right we're right but they're going to
test you all his stuff the test in it
it's not an examination it is did did
this lesson sink in right like if I
could go back over tonight's episode and
quiz you on the things that you you know
went like this while it was happening or
the kids are in the room and distracted
you and then I quizzed you on that it
would be a oh I need to learn that
because it calls you on it but does it
factor in things like ninety percent of
what you hear doesn't be entertained
I'm sure yeah yeah I just I am okay with
this in the classroom I would be really
sad if they brought this into the
workplace or into my home life what
exactly husband's everywhere going yes
don't bring it into the house don't
bring it in a really interesting idea
though I think as an educational tool
yeah yeah yeah if it's all surly for the
purposes of improving lesson plans or
making things more dynamic I could see
that but sure but does a factor in or
like if somebody's bearing their head no
I don't know like I'm a questions guy
but I like to question you need to add
on the question I fighting back to an
episode that we did a couple weeks ago
where we looked at the sessions of our
web viewers say the users were on our
website we actually watched it like a
video and so by doing that it gave us an
opportunity to see oh that could be
improved on our website so could we then
look back at our what our show if this
was in the educational programming that
was being watched
C and C oh well hello Henry's fidgeting
right now so you know this is whatever
I'm saying is how how heartbreaking
would that be actually like in part when
you think about a way if you're the
teacher say we could see it and you're
like oh every time I talk they look away
every time I say something they take a
drink did you become the drinking game
yeah exactly
okay a new malware called Judy is now
infecting millions of Android
smartphones globally close on the heels
of the wanna cry holding pcs at ransom
according to security solutions firm
checkpoint the malware Judy uses
infected devices to generate large
amounts of fraudulent clicks on
advertisements generating revenues for
the perpetrators behind it the total
spread of the malware campaign on Google
Play Google's official app store may
have reached between eight point five
and thirty six point five million users
checkpoints said in its blog the auto
clicking adware duty was found on forty
one apps developed by a Korean company
however it wasn't clear which countries
have been impacted by the Judy malware
some of that some of the apps that were
infected we discovered resided on Google
Play for several years but all were
recently updated it's unclear how long
the malicious code existed inside the
app hence the actual spread of the
malware remains unknown it added after
checkpoint notified Google about this
threat the apps were swiftly removed
from the Play Store said the blog well
that's good Intel has unveiled a new
x-series platform up to 18 cores and 36
threads AMD announced its new high-end
desktop platform h EDT their 16 core
3232 threads thread Ripper a couple of
weeks ago now at Computex in Taipei its
Intel's turn to update its HEV T
platform and it is one-nothing AMD in
the process the Intel platform
consisting of the new x2 9 9 chipset and
new x-series processors will go all the
way up to 18 cores and 36 threads the h
EDT segment is aimed at gamers video
streamers and content creators with deep
pockets or an insatiable desire more
concurrent with more concurrent starts
the mainstream processor segment has to
offer the value proposition for the
segment is always a little skewed with
the chips being as much prestige as much
prestige parts as anything else
straightforward gaming workloads may may
struggle to make full use of the chips
resources but serious twitch streamers
for example can make good use of the
extra cores software developers are
another group that can make good use of
all those cores the sky like X the sky
like X Kip's will also expand Intel's
numbering system Intel is adding a new I
9 branding that slots in above the i7
branding for the high end processors
don't worry there will be some
entry-level X chips as well starting
with Intel's eye 5 line of processors
the 7 640 X boasts 4 cores and is under
250 dollars the 8 core 16 thread Intel
chip costs 599 dollars whereas AMD's
corresponding part part is 499 dollars
the Intel chip does have twice as many
memory channels so it's not exactly like
for like but we'd expect that you'd be
paying at least a little more for an
Intel processor and an Intel motherboard
then a roughly similar AMD system thanks
for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom i'm
sasha diretor
thanks Ashley this is category 5
technology TV and it's episode number
506 and you'll find our website category
5 dot TV great place to find other
content that we offer you and all the
past five hundred and six hours of Tech
Center video with a slight linux bias
make sure you check us out all right
we've got a couple of messages from
viewers Jeff do you wanna take the first
one for us sure so it's from old salt a
old salt and also asks hey Ravi
do you have an anti-virus program on
your Linux machines if so why and if not
why I know it's unlikely to get a virus
on Linux but it's not impossible is this
Linux users should consider I do have
antivirus on mine just in case I think
it's better to be safe than sorry
and certainly on my servers I do and I
just use on my servers I do tend to use
Wyatt does the name escape me it's like
the the main antivirus looks available
in the in the repositories goodness it's
going to heart me old salt Linux auntie
is not a fascist oh my goodness me and
McAfee somebody did I somebody tell the
chatroom I feel like I'm with you on the
slide note even note I did note same
clan clan Navy clan maybe yeah hey maybe
thank you the group that was good guy 98
good guy 98 well done sir
so what this question should not have
caught you off guard wrote it down to
the show no no I just copy and paste and
print that's all I do
so yeah clan maybe is what I put on my
servers but that is really just because
I am I don't know if cheap is the word
I'm more like frugal frugal budget
minded I'll tell you what here's the
thing old salt if on my computer so my
desktop computer which is Linux I do
have the ESET product there's a couple
reasons for that
so we've got to kind of backtrack a
little bit with the whole antivirus
argument because five years ago or
beyond that the whole story behind
antivirus on Linux and this is why I
still just use claim maybe and stuff on
my server because that's it's headless
and I don't ever you know I'm not
sitting in front of it using things
antivirus takes care of viruses so on
Linux this has been the argument forever
Linux is not susceptible to traditional
viruses because you're not running is
the root user in the normal environment
if you are then you're doing it wrong so
because of that to have antivirus is
really a protection for your windows
using friends and your windows computers
on your network things like that the
true story
these days though old salt the the fact
is is that the whole architecture of
online threats has changed so viruses
are not the problem in my eyes on Linux
so yeah you can put antivirus on it
that's not the problem where there are
there are some great products out there
I I use ESET probably because I'm
familiar with it
and it is very very good use because I
sell it and so you know and I say that
kind of as a disclaimer because they're
you know they're not a sponsor in the
show and and and I'm not you know I'm
not impartial to it it's just that's
what I use it works really well and so
to explain that it is not just antivirus
I think we touched on this on the show
before and especially in our interview a
couple weeks back the the thing that we
need to consider is we need to protect
ourselves against other threats
ransomware exploits software exploits or
things like when a rootkit was possible
in Linux because there was an exploit in
NTFS 3G like in the file system for fuse
and so people who had a Windows hard
drive in their computer were susceptible
to a rootkit and these kinds of things
are those are software exploits they're
not viruses things like phishing scams
because users are dumb and we click on
things and we see a link and we think
it's legit and we click on it and we
give our password or so long I mean
you're not over in England with a broken
foot and you need help you get back home
I'm not I like you I will take your
money though oh can I just break this to
tell you a small thing I did today ok
we're going to digress here old song ok
I did this but I didn't do this alright
I did you're wrong why I stopped before
I went too far I went a little far
though so I want wait for Sarah at work
says to me I got this 75 dollar coupon
for shoppers Drug Mart I'll forward it
to you so she forwards it to me in
facebook Messenger yeah
and I opened it and it said we just want
to ask you a couple of questions a short
survey and then you get your coupon and
then it says ok now you click here to
share
it and then you'll get your coupon and
then when I went to go click to share it
said you need to login to Facebook well
I live in Facebook already the Pyramid
of coupons nice call you were already in
Facebook why is it asking me for my past
exactly so then I just closed it and
thought oh I hope I didn't already get
in trouble but I didn't do anything warn
Sara that she needs to change her
password yes thank you I said Sara I
think you and all of your loved ones are
at risk and the problem with something
like a facebook exploit that's
completely unrelated to Linux no I now
by problem with that kind of exploit is
that when something is able to
compromise your facebook profile its
able to then spread to everyone on your
friends list right the point to that was
how stupid people can be and it's just
the fact that I was you get easily
swayed by things sorry Sara I was ok ok
I just fill that out she's crying she
never tried to redeem the coupon she
just forwarded to me I was trying to
redeem it yeah it was me absolutely but
it's so true and I'm sure I'm guilty of
it as well I click on ads like crazy
because I see deals and I want them
right that's just me so that's the thing
old salt we have to think about
protecting ourselves not against viruses
necessarily on our Linux machine that's
a perk of a good security suite like the
ESET offering I think it's called file
security for Linux something like that
but that's not the main focus of why we
have it that's not why I have it
installed on my desktop computer it's
because it protects against things like
phishing scams it protects against
rootkits
and exploits in other software other
software that's the key thing if I open
a PDF file which has an exploit that
works its way into a Linux version of
the PDF reader then it will protect me
against that that's the whole idea
behind a security suite so no it's not
necessarily about antivirus really on
Linux it's about the other things that
you're protected against
and it does help your Windows users
it'll stop things like you know if I get
an email that looks legit if I get that
coupon it will stop it
so that I don't then forward it on to my
friends well actually stop it by
scanning my email as its flowing in
that's cool yeah so there there are
other protections there that are that
are good so very good you see a question
can I take the next one please yeah
awesome this is from Sandra and marki
who has some food for thought for Jeff
Sandrine
Sandrine all right so Jeff why should we
give a shovel to workers when we can use
a spoon to create more jobs okay well I
think you need to get some background on
what this questions about Sasha robot
feel this is robots okay I feel a
Robocop from last week robots are
stealing our jobs folks this is stop
jack ongoing hate for robots all right
so what's going on here - okay could you
read it just like Sandrine I don't I
don't do French accent a orange because
it doesn't I know I can't
I could I could try for a moment right
now because it doesn't work like that
if we were listening to you we should
stop using printers and we should hire
more secretaries to write everything by
hand because printers are stealing jobs
hmm if we were listening to you I love
how this is written if we were listening
to you we should stop sending email and
send snail mail instead if we were
listening to you
we Hollywood should stop producing
movies
Sandrine is from Hollywood so people
would have to go to theaters because DVD
blu-ray and streaming services are
stealing jobs hmm at some point it is
getting ridiculous
can I just yeah okay can I just say yeah
I'm glad I'm not you because Sandrine
sounds test actually I think Sandrine
hmm I'm being unrealistic yeah yeah and
and clearly a supporter of technology
and the advancement of technology which
to be clear good points though
absolutely there are good points
I love the advancement of technology I'm
all for the advancement of technology
and new things to you
and try and yes there's going to be an
element of changing the face of what we
do with technology I mean we could have
had character sketches of this show and
mailed them out to everybody but we have
technology that allows us to produce
this video and things like just thanks
Andrea of all the jobs that we have
disposed of by having a couple of DSLR
cameras one guy over there and three
people over here in a little room that
we rent right don't need a studio we
don't need now I get where you're coming
from but my point was it's it's robots
that I struggle with it's not robotics
I'm not driving although me Jeff they
will always win but it's the idea of
like we as a human race we haven't
proven that we're responsible enough to
use technology in a way to to properly
use it going forward there's always
somebody out there going how can we
screw around with technology now we want
to take jobs like police and hand them
to a robot robots can be hacked
I realize that police can be you know
derived and all like there's things that
happen but the point is when it comes to
robots replacing human jobs I don't
think as a human race we're there yet
from the trust factor and that's where
I'm coming from where I don't see it is
an Greene's point though like thinking
about the nanobots and you know floating
through the Jefferies tube they're tools
right yeah they're now our BOTS are not
sentient and our bots are not they don't
have minds of their own
that we're not where we're at
technologically are they just tools so
like the printer replacing the jobs of
the secretary or the car replacing the
jobs of the wheel mix so we just say
enhancing the jobs cuz I feel like
nobody loses their job completely no
there are jobs that are lost as a result
of technology but then by making the
technology there's new jobs that come as
a result of it yeah yeah yeah yeah so
now and we have this example in sandrine
I'm going to promote to go back over our
episodes about 3d printing because we
have this discussions yeah 3d printing
we'll chill rock the world with the name
of the episode you remember such a good
interview and we talked about how okay
so we've got we've got horse-drawn
carriages and when the automotive
automobile came out now all of these
horse-drawn carriage people
manufacturers and service people and you
know blacksmiths and all of the trades
that are associated with these
horse-drawn carriages the people who
rear the horses and take care of them
those jobs are no longer needed so were
those jobs lost or now are we
manufacturing cars are we manufacturing
the automobile are we you know
mining resources to create gasoline and
and these kinds of things so is it a
transition versus a cancellation so but
long that vein is a robot police officer
replacing police officers or
transitioning them to a different role
in this case it's possibly a less
dangerous one well I'm not going to get
shot if I'm in the field when a robot
has taken my place right but if you
remember this story this robot is
nothing more than a service bot so to
speak like there's right now you know
there's a screen on it's direct
completely they're not sentient they're
not yeah it was a very minimal impact
but it's the idea that you know we could
have that interaction like yeah I teach
my kids hey you know what if you see a
police officer there's somebody that
generally you can trust I realize that
there's some people who like to pull
stands out there but generally if you
see police officer yeah if something's
wrong if you if you can't find mummy and
daddy and you see a police officer go
talk to them right yeah absolutely but
if I go up to a robot police officer I
don't know it has the thing been hacked
is it getting very proper information I
don't like I struggle with the idea of
in particular replacing police with
robots even if it's just adding a value
added service there's a lot of things
that come with it that I'm going I don't
think we're there yet yeah I don't think
as a human race we've shown enough trust
with the technology to make this
worthwhile I understand and appreciate
your
your fears and judgments on yeah I'm not
I get it I get it
I'm not just I'm more only a goal but
context it's not the point it no exactly
like this with the police I think we're
there
right it's just like a self-driving cars
love the idea of it I don't think I'm
interested in having a fully autonomous
uber fleet next year of self-driving
cars I don't think we've gotten far
enough went ready that's right we're not
ready for it there's there's still bugs
that need to be worked out when that
happens great sure because then there's
another element of transitioning work
that we deal with but we're not there
yet and that's where I'm coming but this
police bought this particular one is not
meant to enforce the law it's meant to
enhance the police force by taking on
more of the humdrum situations where
it's like by law infractions right but
that's still enforcing the law and
that's so in part of my comment last
week we're bringing up the legalities of
it does a robot have the legal authority
we're very centered on the police bot
right now that's where this comment came
from but it couldn't be from the robot
that makes lasagna I flippantly met
Sasha's grandma yeah
robot grandma absolutely there's also a
robot in the hospital's aisle better I
think a pepper I think yeah sure but you
were concerned deeply loved all of that
robot making a lasagna was going to
replace Sasha's good chefs and - is
grandma buddy what it's just it's not
the same I would I like I'm sorry you
cannot take Gordon Ramsay and replace
him with a robot you it doesn't have the
pallet it might have the tech doesn't
have the language well that's that - but
so that's where I'm coming from with
with the robotics with the robot end not
robotics the robot end okay because it
has to do the backend programming in the
user I just I don't get it I think
there's two very distinct sides to the
argument I would encourage you please
comment below let us know your thoughts
is Jeff Wright is Sandrine right is
there some kind of happy
medium in between is is this we're both
right maybe it's just you know a my my
comment that it's just a tool it's just
something to assist us humans so that
I'm not doing back-breaking work when a
robot can be doing that for me I eat I
can be mingling with my guests while the
robot makes the dinner
exactly I love the robot kitchen please
PLEASE wrong we've got one here from red
if fusion music and by the way syndrome
thank you very much for the message
ready fusion music responded to our
episode about want to cry Brian says
what's pretty scary about most of the
ATMs in Scotland anyway is that they run
anything from windows 95 yes really
Windows 95 to Windows 98 and XP embedded
which I've personally witnessed this is
Rediffusion music I've personally
witnessed quite a few of them lock up
whilst cashing out the local new ATM
near me uses a UNIX based system and it
is the easiest and fastest machine to
use ever see this is good
ever that sounds like a good machine I
remember pulling up to the Royal Bank
drive-thru bank machine and it was a
Windows 98 blue screen of death this was
that literally several years ago and our
ATMs here in Canada have seemingly been
upgraded they've done away with
envelopes and stuff so now you pop in
your check and it's some kind of
proprietary system it's probably windows
driven embedded OS or something like
that but you never see it you don't ever
I've never seen a VSO be one of those is
95 Windows 95 that's not that's really
old
dr. dangerous hmm our ATMs
interconnected mmm is Windows 95
susceptible to malware oh wow
wowsers scary stuff dude yikes
I would suggest keeping your cash in a
basket under your bed safer
there's been the show folks can believe
time shows is just flying by but thank
you so much for being here thanks to
Henry for off Indiana and directing us
tonight that's a bit of an experiment a
man that feel kind of neat we've got a
pretty neat setup and we've got like
picture-in-picture for Henry so that you
can see the different cameras and and
then I've got foot switches so that I
can swap back and forth between
different camera shots without having to
reach out and distracts after all the
time as I'm going like that square you
know that when I notice the subconscious
muscle memory though both 3 3 2 now you
touch the green three quarters of the
show I had to touch the screen I have to
touch the screen for the computer shot
okay fair enough I want to bring up the
laptop I have to touch this okay that's
what it was that I was like I only have
used a foot pedals man I only have three
foot pedals so I've got I've got the
main shot I've got Sascha shot and
Sasha's new shot but no Geoff shot
those are my three pedals no he's got
this Geoff shot you can zoom in on you
well we can absolutely Henri our
director tonight wants us to raise the
point that we have an amazing prize
treasure chest that is ready to rock so
we've got all kinds of awesome prizes
that we're going to be giving away and
it's a treasure chest we have a really
cool promotion for you I can't really go
into all the details of how it's going
to work but what you need to do is send
us an email contest at category-five TV
let us know what you love about
category-five technology TV how long
you've been watching what is good about
it what you what keeps you coming back
those kinds of things
and that's your ballot to participate in
this contest so what do we have we've
got a plug power energy mirror which
allows you to monitor the usage of any
of your 120 volt devices so you plug
your fridge into it and it will tell you
in one day it will tell you the the
usage overall in it like per day cool
and it doesn't only do that it breaks it
down by cost how much is this actually
costing you based on kilowatt hour it
helps us to cut down on our expenses by
knowing what devices are that's true
like I am lowering our pan what else we
got we've got some collectibles from
category five that's right we have the
photo booth and get
in fact affordable and super photo with
affordable and Amazon giftcards
definitely
so I mean hey if you're in a 240 zone
you may not pick the 110 120 measuring
thing that you can pick an Amazon gift
card and get yourself something nice
I'm excited about the stick spots green
dickwads yeah get out more a lot of time
we go to your door now my kids even like
that's the thing that was on categories
right if I so want it no my favorite
bird baby quiet we've got everything
from micro drones to to chapo' lows
which are a lot of eligible rocker
device so if you lose your wallet a lot
just stick one in your wallet it's the
size of a coin and then if you lose your
wallet you just bring it up on your your
phone and you don't bring your wallet up
on your phone you bring the app up on
your phone and it will show you on a map
where your device is where your wallet
is and if you lose your phone you can
shake your wallet or give it a squishin
it'll actually ring your your phone as
well okay cool so there are all these
kinds of things so how does it work you
send in your ballot contest a category 5
TV if you win you're going to be able to
open that treasure chest and pick which
prize you want that's how it works so
definitely going to be a lot of fun
we've got some great things there for
you nice if you want to say the chat
room says Thank You Henry yeah let us
know what you think because we're always
looking to improve the show this as I
said was a bit of an experiment with
that with having Henry behind camera
because we had Jeff is here tonight and
so good opportunity for us to to play
around with that with people all around
sash made a suggestion hey maybe we do a
rotation where sash is on camera one we
can look at the sign Bobby's on camera
the next uh-huh so unfortunately you'll
have to wait to the summer because I'm
oh hot available so this is it this is
the one episode where we can get extreme
close-ups on Robbie's forehead that's it
super funny so you're not here again
until I will not be here for the month
of what are you here for just the two
episodes two weeks the two Luke's and
episodes I was here for both of Luke
stump and a nice thank you
then I'm Luke's dumps its personal
chance oh yes
for Luke stumps and I will I will be
gone for the month of June oh not by
choice right of course
yeah well we'll miss you alright folks
well thank you very very much and I look
forward to seeing you again next week
we're actually be looking at that device
that is going to show us how how much
electricity we are you using with our
later stuff in our house so make sure
you check us out next week at
category-five TV we'll see you then bye
