here are the stories were covering this
week in a category 5 TV newsroom a
security vulnerability has been
disclosed for a flaw and run C docker
and Q Burnett cuber Nettie's kubernetes
container front makes up these names
which can be used to attack any host
system of running containers canonical
has released a new kernel update for
boon to systems to address a regression
introduced by the last kernel security
patch spacex is seeking us approval to
deploy up to 1 million earth stations to
receive transmissions from its planned
satellite broadband constellation
raspberry pi has opened its first bricks
and mortar stores in Cambridge these
stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories
slave Linux bias Jeff Weston Yemen
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website
aren't you your terrible actor what this
where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host I'm Sasha Rickman and here
the top stories recovering this week a
disclosed for a flaw in run seed docker
and kubernetes container runtime which
can be used to attack any host system
running containers one of the great
security fears about containers is that
an attacker could infect a container
with a malicious program which could
escape and attack the host system well
now we now have a security hole that
could be used by such an attack run see
is the underlying container runtime for
docker kubernetes and other container
dependent programs it's an open source
command-line tool for spawning and
running containers docker originally
created it and today it's an open
container initiative or OCI
specification it's widely used chances
are if you're using containers you're
running them on run see security
researchers discovered the vulnerability
which allows a malicious container with
minimal user interaction to overwrite
the hosts
run see binary and thus gain root level
code execution on the hosts the level of
user interaction is being able to run
any command it doesn't matter if the
command is not attacker controlled as
root to do this an attacker has to place
a malicious container within your system
but this is not that difficult
lazy cysts admins often use the first
container that comes to hand without
checking to see if
the software within that container is
what it purports to be besides run see
the problem can also attack container
systems using LXE and Apache mace hose
container code so yes if you're running
any kind of containers you need to patch
ASAP Amazon Web Services has already
made a patch available for Amazon Linux
and patches are being rolled out for
Amazon's ECSE KS and AWS Fargate
services hmm hmm it's happening in the
story we say that a lazy sysadmin
could be susceptible mm-hmm and I you
know I think that we need to recognize
how this could potentially happen you
think that you're not susceptible
because how would a hacker install a
compromised docker container on your
system mm-hmm but then back up and say
what about if I went on the internet and
downloaded a pre-built container because
or an OS that was already compromised
that could compromise my containers
because am i lazy system in no I don't
know if that's really the term it's
there's a lot of pre-built
stacks that are available for you so you
think you're you're just you're not
being lazy you're just kind of taken the
path of least resistance because you
think it's already available right to
you yeah why reinvent the wheel if you
know if something like something simple
like a lamp stack you know why why do
you really need to have a turnkey
solution for that you can just deploy it
yourself and it's not that hard to
deploy but something more complex you
know something that or something that's
custom mm-hmm that could be a real issue
and so you're putting a lot of trust in
the developers too and I think about how
you know I develop NEMS Linux and
you know how terrible would it be if
somebody were to do something similar to
what I do and make it malicious and yeah
I mean perfectly doable mm-hmm so you
know they my users are putting trust in
me and I would never violate that but
but others may others may right and so
how would how would somebody know right
like for example like you're like NEMS
is is amazing and it's good and it's
Thanks yeah and but you're trustworthy
source but how would you be able to
prove that you were right yeah somebody
I'll have an advantage because of the
credibility that I have just as you know
being exactly all nerd but but like
anybody off the you know any developer
yeah I like developers spread up all the
time and bring out stuff we see it on
WordPress how it you know a new plug-in
is available I pulled a plug-in this
week because the developer injected gdpr
popups on my website that led out they
had exit links to another website and I
said I gave them a one out of five star
review and I said this is not acceptable
you don't ever post exit links on my
website without my permission and and
certain it wasn't even related to what
their plug-in was meant to be doing so
so to me it's like they violated my
trust they violated my users trust as
well it's hard because I mean even even
the case like if it's free then you
think to yourself okay
maybe there's something about this right
but then there's like you never know
sometimes it is I download like free
watch faces to my Fitbit well really in
truth this Fitbit is connected to a lot
of things right so that could there
could be something it's even worse when
a developer could inject malicious Ness
and charge you money for it right which
is also a case so yeah we do hear about
those things happening too yeah so I
think it boils down to be careful who
you're downloading stuff from mm-hmm and
not just like sources because my
WordPress plug-in as the example
came from the official wordpress plugins
repository like it came directly from
WordPress com
so but it wasn't developed by them and
we've heard of WordPress having injected
code sometimes and so people who have
those those plugins get that injection
so similarly if you're using docker and
you're getting containers from
third-party sources and you're not
building them yourself then you really
really have to be wary and careful this
is just a perfect example of you know
yeah why why you have to be so careful
exactly canonical has released a new
kernel update for a boon to systems to
address a regression introduced by the
last kernel security patch after
patching and nasty Linux kernel
regression in the aboon to 18 point 4
LTS odd operating system series
canonical now address another regression
affecting the Linux 418 kernel packages
of a boon to 1810 and a boon to 1841 LTS
systems which was introduced by an
important kernel security update
released last week the kernel security
update that canonical published on
February 4th was available for a boon to
1810 abouttwo 1604 LTS and a boon to
1404 LTS systems but only a boon to 1810
machines were affected by a regression
that could prevent them from booting
when certain graphics chipsets are used
the regression effects not only of them
- 1810 systems but also a boon to 1804
LTS machines running the Linux 418
Hardware enablement kernel from a boon -
1810 which is included in the new a boon
- 1804 - LTS point release if you're
running Ubuntu 1810 or a boom - 1804 LTS
with a Linux kernel 4:18 you are urged
to update your kernel packages
immediately if you like I just throw a
bunch of numbers at you
well I feel like you know if this is you
boon 280 10 18 point oh four oh four
point two that it's Colonel 4.18 right
just make sure you up-to-date folks
exactly because this problem if it
affects you could stop your system from
being able to boot and yeah and we hate
when that kind of thing happens and that
can happen for any developer canonical
is a good example of a company that we
do trust hmm to develop good software
and and not just good like good but good
like we're not we're not worried about
them doing crazy stuff no I like that
they have released this patch yes I feel
kind of like a pro star with all of
those numbers I feel like that all right
it started to get a little jumbled and
confusing but essentially if you're
running ubuntu 18 point oh four or 18
point 10 yeah make sure you update to
the latest kernel because four point one
eight is impossibly afflicted with that
issue yeah stop you from being able to
boot your computer right it would be the
most heartbreaking thing yeah you just
type sudo reboot and it won't come on so
easy to run an update right like as far
as updating and applying packages it's
so easy so just do it apt update yeah
upgrade and apt dist
- upgrade will do it for you so easy
peasy your system
Ubuntu is primarily a GUI based system
sort of like a desktop environment so
you probably get a notification but
there's an update ready for you and then
easy peasy just do it just do it folks
SpaceX is seeking us approval to deploy
up to 1 million earth stations to
satellite broadband constellation the
Federal Communications Commission last
year gave SpaceX permission to deploy
nearly 12,000 low-earth orbit satellites
for the planned StarLink system an
application submitted February 1st from
SpaceX services a sister company asks
the FCC for a blanket license
authorization operation of up to 1
million earth stations that end-users
end-user customers will utilize to
communicate with space axes non
geostationary orbit constellation space
X job listings describe the user
terminal as a high-volume
manufactured product customers will have
in their homes
SpaceX Services seeks authority to
deploy and operate these earth stations
throughout the United States Alaska
Hawaii Puerto Rico and the US Virgin
Islands each user terminal will
communicate only with those SpaceX
satellites that are visible on the
horizon above a minimum elevation angle
the application says SpaceX asked the
FCC for quick approval to support the
company's ambitious timetable for
launching satellites and deploying
broadband services SpaceX wrote granting
this application would serve the public
interest by helping to speed broadband
deployments throughout the United States
by authorizing the ground-based
components of SpaceX's satellite system
spacex hasn't provided a specific
availability date but a Reuters report
in October 2018 said SpaceX is goal of
having Internet service available in
2020 is pretty much on target with an
initial satellite launch by mid 2019 SEC
rules require the launch of 50 percent
of satellites within six years of
authorization and all of them within
nine years unless a waiver is granted
SpaceX has said it's broadband broadband
satellites will provide gigabit speeds
and Layton sees as low as 25
milliseconds similar to cable or fiber
systems holy cow this is the future this
is weird as you're as you're telling the
story sash I'm thinking about how this
is also the same company that is
apparently going to take us to Mars
right so you know is this like a
pre-emptive like let's get this thing
going so that we can open up
communications with another planet that
is cool a moon base
example that kind of stuff mm-hmm
obviously that's more in line but with
those kinds of Layton's he's like really
really fast and really really low delay
for Internet connectivity
telecommunications radio broadcasts
video broadcasts all those things can be
done through this kind of interface I'm
excited about finding out how this
actually pans out like mid-20 90
thoughts soon right there it's gonna
happen and we'll have reports quick Here
I am excited about Mars
I know but realistically this is a
better internet than I have right at
home or here like that's like gigabit
speed I get about on a good day like my
cable provider its boasts that it's
Gigabit Ethernet now I might get 50 mega
and 200 down on a good day right well
last season here we had such Internet
problems we were on LTE which is the
kind of the current standard for for
mobile mmm-hmm we were getting about 20
20 which was good but LTE in and of
itself is what it is it's a wireless
cellular technology that it doesn't do
very well with large packets and things
like that so this would be awesome I
would like it I will like it let's see
what happens is it we don't have as you
say we don't have long to wait so let's
see if they get the approval that is
they have to have they only have six
years to get 500,000 base stations
installed I can't imagine that that
would be difficult you're installing a
base station that's it on earth home
denied right so it's kind of the
impression I'm getting but is it like a
wireless modem or is it like a tower
just like a wireless modem or something
and I feel like you drive down the
street and you see those old disk
satellites and they're still up on
people's houses there's definitely like
50,000 of those out and about you know
like I feel like you you sell it to
somebody they'll install it right it's
not gonna be that difficult I have faith
in you I believe that we're gonna so in
about six months time we're gonna
a video of Sasha installing SpaceX
Internet and then a clip if not that
difficult
that's confidence raspberry pi has
opened its first bricks and mortar store
in Cambridge the foundation behind the
credit card-sized raspberry pi single
board computer said it hopes the store
would help people get hands-on with
technology try their hand at programming
and see some of the projects being
powered by pi the shop located in
Cambridge is grand arcade shopping
centre is in the city where Raspberry Pi
was founded and is still based as we
asked raspberry pi kit eyes for
raspberry pi kit o as well as PI kit and
peripherals the shop will also sell PI
merchandise and magazines to coincide
with the stores opening the foundation
is also releasing a new Raspberry Pi
starter kit which includes the latest Pi
3 model b+ as well as a keyboard mouse
SD card power supply unit HDMI cable
case and a book explaining the basics of
Pi the kit will only be sold in the
physical store for the time being but
will be rolled out online in the coming
weeks founder and CEO even Upton says
the shut the shop was the next big step
to persuading more people to catch the
Raspberry Pi bug he says the shop
provides potential customers with a
chance to learn about Raspberry Pi while
at the same time giving us a chance to
learn more about their needs previously
the majority of Raspberry Pi units and
accessories were sold online as well as
attracting new customers Upton said the
shop could also become a way of better
interacting with and developing the
online PI community founded six years
ago the Raspberry Pi foundation has gone
on to sell 19 million of its low-cost
single board computers raspberry pi
isn't the only online only brand that's
moved offline Amazon has been
experimenting with bricks and mortar
stores since 2015 and in January 28th
it opened its first cashier las' grocery
stores to the public this kind of
happened out of the blue like did anyone
see this coming maybe if you're if
you're local to them I feel like
raspberry pie we happened out of the
blue it's only six years old like me
that blows my mind in itself and now to
have a bricks-and-mortar
I like it what I love about what they're
doing is like you think about the whole
stem and steam movements as far as like
educating kids and not just kids but
adults too because a lot of adults
didn't grow up with hands-on tinkering
with computers and and technology but
the store is set up in such a way that
you can you can work on your devices
right there you can learn and and
potentially I would imagine I mean
they're across the pond from us so I
haven't been able to visit but I would
imagine that they have staff there that
are knowledgeable about the product as
well and and how to use it how to code
it how to use the GPIO and can and can
kind of teach a little bit as well yeah
and I get that impression from from the
the statements of their founder where
he's kind of talking about we can gauge
we can learn from the people who come
into the store right how we can do
better how we can evolve the product and
and so I think there's going to be more
interaction than just walk in buy a
Raspberry Pi and walk out exactly here's
your cat here's how you set it up here's
what you can do and here's a book to get
you started I love it I mean that'll be
online as well but I love that first
it's gonna be just in stores yes I do
have a huge favor to ask I feel like I'm
talking to just a cup like just a few of
you because I know we have viewers
everywhere but if you're close by please
this weekend go to the store and just
take a couple of drinks and shots let us
know either your category-five shirt at
the Raspberry Pi store that would be
cool yeah let's take a quick look at the
state of cryptocurrency according to
coin gecko this week as of 1800 hours
Eastern Time on Wednesday February 13th
Bitcoin
is the big gainer up two hundred and two
dollars and seventy seven cents per coin
and is sitting at three thousand six
hundred and five twenty-six litecoin
gained also eight dollars and eighty six
cents which doesn't sound like much but
being the last week it was only thirty
two dollars and seventy two cents that
brings it up to forty one fifty eight
aetherium is at one twenty one fifty
seven us Manero at forty eight dollars
and eighty cents so everything's on the
rise stellite the little guys gained
point one ten thousandth of a cent at
gains again yep
one point eight Oh turtle coin is the
only one that went down this week that
we are monitoring anyways there are
thousands of coins at this point it went
down to point nine to ten thousandth of
a cent per turtle coin but they're so
easy to mine they're still so easy to
get and so economical so I mean who
knows where it'll be ten years from now
yeah nobody really knows and do keep
that in mind if you are looking at
cryptocurrency the market never closes
and it's always volatile big thanks to
Roy W Nash in our community of viewers
for submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
I'm Sacha Rickman and I'm Robbie
Ferguson thank you so much for being
here with us again this week looking
forward to seeing you next week
take care
[Music]
[Applause]
