it's Tuesday November eighteenth 2014
and hear the stories were covering this
week NVIDIA has released the beta
version of a huge update to their linux
drivers the US government is reportedly
collecting cell phone data using devices
aboard their aircraft russia's
presidential library wants to create a
replacement for wikipedia a
five-year-old boy is now a microsoft
certified professional thursday's world
of warcraft expansion has been Laden by
server bugs and Facebook's new messenger
service reaches 500 million users these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere operation christmas child is
of the great stories it's unfolding in
our lifetime
we are only seeing just the beginning of
this project and these children will
change the world
I'm Sasha dramatis and here are the top
stories from the category 5 TV newsroom
a new nvidia beta linux driver has been
released this is one of the biggest
updates in a long time there's so many
improvements in the driver that it's
hard to pick out the most important ones
for example the vp8 video streams
usually found in internet browsers are
now played through the NVIDIA GPU nvidia
settings is now available to take
advantage of GT gtk+ 3 the performance
has been increased measurably and limit
on the maximum number of opengl frame
buffer objects has been removed while
only in beta if you aren't afraid to
break your system you've got to give
Nvidia's 346 point 16 beta drivers a try
according to The Wall Street Journal
devices that gather data from millions
of mobile phones are being flown over
the US by the government the dirt box
devices mimic mobile phone tower
transmissions and handsets transmit
their location and unique identity data
back the report claims while they are
used to track specific suspects all
mobile devices in the area will respond
to the signal The Wall Street Journal
said it had spoken to sources familiar
with the program who said Cessna
aircraft fitted with dirt boxes were
flying from at least five US airports
the US Justice Department refused to
confirm or deny the report that is the
scariest new story I have heard in a
long time Robbie yeah what kind of data
could be collected be on your location
information and whatever communications
I but to me that's enough to me just
knowing that if you carry a cell phone
on you you can be tracked no matter
where you are that's true that is enough
of a breach of I don't know privacy and
individual freedom and maybe I've been
watching too much person of interest but
could that data now be transmitted to
other devices for surveillance because
if if I know your location by GPS
tracking or by cellular tracking try
or whatever is being used am i able to
then pinpoint the surveillance camera
because we know that governments are
known to install surveillance cameras at
traffic lights and things like that so
could they activate the one where you're
walking this is completely theoretical
and almost conspiracy theory 'used by
you wonder if I love the fact that
they're calling them dirt boxes dirt
boxes yeah that's exactly what it feels
like it is like just a little bit of a
spy tactic uh anyhow Russia is planning
an alternative version of Wikipedia the
country's presidential library has said
a statement said the initiative is
aiming to provide better information
about Russia than is currently available
on Wikipedia analysis has shown that
Wikipedia does not have enough detailed
and reliable information about Russian
regions and the life of the country it
said some 50,000 books and documents had
been collected to portray Russia
objectively and accurately given
Russia's recent political issues I
wonder if this is sort of a la North
Korea where some of the information may
be skewed a little bit eh yeah uh he's
looking at you kind of funny there I'd
be intimidated if I was you right now I
bet I have a Russian name so maybe I'll
just blend into the background can I
just can can I just say okay if it
really was about Wikipedia do you not
understand what Wikipedia is it's a
community-driven project of knowledge so
if if there was information there that
was inaccurate hmm then that information
could be edited by the public and then
it goes through the you know if it's
found to be accurate then it stays up if
it's found inaccurate they'll ask for
cited sources and so on and so forth
wikipedia that's how it works that's why
it's such a great platform because you
kind of think that it's fairly accurate
with regards to the information that it
has
it's the world's and it's the world
encyclopedia really it's not accurate
enough for Russia I Russia has not is it
an accuracy thing or the the the whole
idea the whole concept like you say
sounds like censorship to me yeah it's a
matter of perception right so Russia
wants you to perceive them differently
than how others claim I guess Russia is
no matter but in better and far more
awesome news a boy from England has
become the youngest computer specialist
in the world I inquire she is now a
microsoft certified professional after
passing the tech giant's exam when he
was just five years old the test is
usually taken by people who want to
become IT technicians ayan now 6 whose
father is an IT consultant has set up
his own computer network at home he told
the BBC he found the exam difficult but
enjoyable and hopes to set up uk-based
tech hub one day I am who lives in
Coventry with his parents says he hopes
to launch a uk-based I t-hub similar to
America America Silicon Valley one day
which he intends to call Eve alley I
will tell you I will happily work for
him one day Wow amazing five years old
jeez kids gotta clean up the room though
I mean that network just looks like a
bomb man you've got collisions happening
and so on and so forth clean up your
toys man just Sam just saying but
brilliant I mean five years old and the
kid has passed the test trying to
remember what I was doing at five years
old and I'm pretty sure it was learning
how to read yeah sure enough maybe here
he is the world's youngest certified
programmer where to go some way to go
world of warcraft subscribers are
suffering crashes and long waits to
start playing after its new expansion
pack became the latest video game to
suffer computer server faults developer
Blizzard has published a series of blogs
since Thursday detailing efforts to fix
the problems these included making
servers in Europe unavailable for nearly
five hours on Saturday to upgrade the
hardware one company watcher said it was
surprising giving given blizzards
experienced warlords of draenor which
went on sale on Thursday is the fifth
expansion to World of Warcraft's
ten-year fan ten-year-old fantasy
role-playing game it provides access to
a new orc controlled planet called
Draenor a spokesman for Blizzard said
while the majority of our players are
able to play we're very sorry that many
are stuck in queues before they're able
to get in due to a combination of demand
and the mitigating measures we've taken
so if you are a world of warcraft player
just I guess hang tight they're working
on things that would be a bit of a
logistical nightmare if you were to sell
a product on your servers weren't able
to keep up can't imagine especially
mmorpgs these days where every we got
thousands of people connecting all at
once to the servers and I know the
frantic nature that people get into when
they're wanting to play a game and Link
and they can't I mean in my planner you
set aside I set aside the time if I'm
going to play a game I've got to find a
day where I can set aside an hour and
actually do it right I mean in my
experience my boyfriend plays Dark Souls
and when he does if the servers crash at
the time that he's trying to play can't
you know he had enjoy his downtime Yeah
right it gets aggravating so hang in
there world of warcraft players hang in
there folks some social networking giant
facebook said its new messaging service
has now has more than 500 million users
worldwide users of the separate
messenger app have more than doubled
from 200 million in april the company
said facebook has fit had faced the
backlash after it announced it would be
forcing users to download the app to
send private mess
Edge's two friends over the main
Facebook service users started being
pushed to download the app launched in
2011 in July that is probably the reason
it's reached 500 million users y'all say
you can't really brag if you know you've
you've tied everyone's hands of course I
don't know about you but I can't stand
the darn thing and I can't get rid of
the darn thing because i use it for
communication like just give me back
facebook where I can communicate through
facebook I actually am NOT one of the
500 million users really how'd you how'd
you do that we'll talk after the show
because I'll tell you what every time
I've got an older phone and it's not
super super fast but it's cheap I pay
six bucks a month for it and that's
fantastic i love that we've talked about
on the show when it's on my blog bald
nerd calm how i did that why i did that
but as an older phone slightly older it
works just fine but if you've got two
apps to do the one thing it's taking
resources so i've got facebook up and
somebody messages me and all of a sudden
it brings up this other app and then
i've got a task over and then it freezes
and crashes and says messenger has
stopped responding right that's really
another facebook app will not work for
messaging however facebook in your
browser will still allow messages back
oh you hacker you yes alright so there
you go you don't have to one of the five
hundred million there you go for all
your tech news with a slight linux bias
visit the category 5 TV news room at
news
category 5 TV for the new for the
category 5 TV news room I'm Sasha
dramatis and oh speaking of the category
5 TV news room we are looking for
something a little less cliche than the
news desk so if you have ideas about
possible backdrops and foreground where
you'd like to see me maybe on a planet
may be under the sea maybe on a nice
beach somewhere send in your suggestions
you can send alive at category five dot
TV I think maybe a spaceship with with
like some kind of metallic desk in front
of you instead of instead of the the
kind of traditional newsroom desk Oh
what do you what do you guys think you
think if we got you props you could you
could you've got lights and buttons that
you could have to put oh that would be
fun honey I'd like that we could do a
little bit of like a Linux like proper
and do all the different distros like is
that what they're called distros yeah
that right do those in the background
like different and then I could sort of
be in it we could do a little talk about
what each one is put you in Linux yeah
inland as a space if linux was a place
yes sasha lives there exactly sasha and
linux land yeah nice I i we love the
green screen and being able to do things
like you know wave your hand or
something they're sad and now boom she's
sitting at the desk outside oh that's
what it actually looks like oh don't put
your hand outside of the frame though oh
that's the only catch but that's all
done through chroma key green screen in
telestream one wire cast so it looks
something like this and when I bring up
the shot let's see so we've got snow
fall there's Sasha let's turn off chroma
key and that's actually what we're what
we're seeing here so when her hand got
outside of the shot it's because it's
just on the edge of that green screen so
we can pull that off we can turn the
snow fall off we can put it on and all
these things are done live in real time
through telestream Wirecast from cat5 TV
/ Wirecast and it's fantastic and being
able to do that is awesome we do that
through
the hardware the green-screen hardware
that we got a tube tape calm but get it
at cat five dot TV / green and when you
use that link that's another way that
you can support the show but the they
got some amazing deals especially
leading up to Christmas they've got some
blowout prices for you and you can get
your own green screen set but as sasha
says we want to do something a little
bit different with our newsroom and if
you've been enjoying the category 5 TV
news room through season 8 i'd encourage
you to get your ideas in live at
category 5 TV sorry I took over Sasha go
ahead oh I was just reading in the chat
room I was just reading some of the
suggestions oh okay so anything else ah
well goats was one of them penguins was
another penguins and goats penguins and
goats goats that scream like humans wait
let me call oh yeah oh so it's been done
