hey welcome to the show show I'm Robbie
have you ever wanted to get that perfect
ambient sound for your feature film or
perhaps you want to go in and record a
music video live get that real ambient
sound or maybe you want to do nature
sounds well think about binaural audio
it's the old thing that has made a
comeback but the audio recording rigs
for binaural 3d audio are quite
expensive some dummy heads are about
five thousand dollars talk to you about
what binaural audio is how it works get
your headphones ready because I'm going
to give you a demo and we're gonna see
if we can build a dummy head for about a
hundred dollars stick around this loop
is show show
and now here's your host robin ferguson
okay this is the show show and this is
the binaural audio dummy head addition
what we've got is this dummy head that I
picked up on Amazon I've got all the
links for you right there cat five dot
TV slash dummy and that's got everything
that we're gonna be looking at today so
this dummy head came to me it was like
nine bucks and get them pretty cheap I'm
gonna tell you what I was looking for in
a dummy head don't worry I can explain
what I'm doing here it's not to hold my
wigs I know that would actually work
really well wouldn't it okay this is
just a simple foam dummy head it is used
for show just like store displays to put
hats on and things like that obviously
it's a mold of of somebody's face what
is important about this particular dummy
head is that it has ears we want to be
able to know exactly where the ears are
because this is you know about the size
it's the size of a human head and it's
got ears in the proper positions now how
binaural audio works just to let you
know now stereo audio say XY pattern
gives you a nice stereo left-right but
it is not 3d it's interesting how the
human ear works it's it's really
actually kind of cool we only have if
you think in terms of speakers say or
microphones we only have two ears right
we don't have ears all around our head
so how is it that I can hear you over
there and if someone's coming up behind
me I can hear and I know that they're
behind me when I've only got two ears I
don't have ears in the back of my head
even though my kids think sometimes I do
eyes perhaps but the human ear is really
cool because with only two sensors I'm
able to pick up not just left and right
like the stereo signal but also in front
behind above/below binaural audio fills
in the gap and what it does is it
records from the human ears that
position so that when we play it back on
headphones we hear it in that spatial
realm so cool whoever discovered this is
genius if it wasn't so long ago they
they should be like
patenting it but anyway so there are
some cool ways to do this of course
there are dummy heads that you can buy
prefabricated that are about $5,000
there are some binaural audio rigs that
you can buy that that look like a stick
with ears on them and those cost
anywhere around $500 or so we're going
to see if we can do it all for $100
excluding tools and the obvious thing so
here's what I expect you already have of
course a microphone stand that's
something that I want to use because I
want to be able to mount the head at
about head level because if we're going
to record something we're not going to
set it on the ground because who hears
things from the ground so then when we
play that back it's going to be kind of
weird this is the ants perspective so we
want to actually have it on a pole I am
expecting you already have a microphone
you're doing broadcasting right if you
don't have 300 of these in the back room
there's something wrong no I I always
have a handful of microphone stands
kicking around I've got them all around
me and they're handy to have so we've
got a mic stand we've got a drill and
I'm also going to expect that you've got
this fancy little drill bit now we're
going to need to be able to position
ears on this bad boy and I needed a hole
saw just a simple hole saw I thought but
I couldn't find one that wasn't
diamond-encrusted so if you don't
already have a hole saw that is about a
quarter-inch you're going to need
something like that to be able to drill
the hole in this project I went in to
Canadian Tire in the south end of Barrie
thanks to Jake and Kelly for being able
to hook me up with a great deal on this
bad boy
it's way overkill for what we need this
one is meant for ceramic and porcelain
granite all that kind of stuff and it's
diamond coated so I'm I said I'm
drilling into foam don't you have
anything cheaper but so this is really
the only thing that I had to buy that
was like oh I wish I didn't have to buy
that but so we're not going to include
that in the cost because I can expect
maybe you've got somebody nearby that
has a diamond encrusted
quarter inch hole saw the reason that
we're going to go with a hole saw rather
than a drill bit is because when you're
drilling into the foam you don't want it
to get all those little edges and
everything in it so you know how foam
kind of turns brittle if you drill into
it if you are you
a surrogate corrugated like a sharp like
a saw hole saw this one as you can see
is a little different it does not have
any pointy edges if you're using
something like that and is your drill
bit you want to make sure that you set
your drill in Reverse so the end run it
really really slow so that we don't
damage the foam so this is going to be
about the right size for an ear canal so
you can see how that's going to work how
that's going to happen we've got a
really cool device I'm going to be
showing you in just a couple of minutes
but Roland has brought out a CST ten CS
10 a.m. and these are binaural
microphones that go in your ear so it's
the perfect placement for recording
we're going to look at that in just a
couple of minutes time the other thing
that so that I don't expect you to have
that's all part of the cost the other
thing that I do expect you to have
already though is some kind of a
recorder with a powered 8 inch 3.5
millimeter input for your mic so that
would be you know tascam any task cam
unit with an eighth inch powered input
the I use an H for n for example from
zoom so any recorder I expect you to
already have as well if you don't I do
have links for those if you'd like to
purchase those through us it supports
the show the show show cap v dot TV
slash dummy okay I've got my crummy
drill here and let's get started on this
project it's not going to take us long
to build this bad boy because it's such
a simple project so here we go with ear
canal number one I'm gonna just feel my
ear see where yeah it goes in right
about there okay so we've got a bit of a
bit of an angle here
perfect that is lovely look at that and
it's just come out in foam beads okay
your canal number two and there we go so
we've got these nice clean drill holes
for ear canals beautiful and you can't
even really see that but obviously those
are there so these dummy heads are as I
said they're meant for putting on a
stand so they quite often have a hole in
the bottom you don't need to drill that
out it's already there because when they
put them in stores they have the stands
already for them we don't want to just
stick that on a mic stand and hope for
the best it doesn't even fit on my mic
stand it's going to be wobbly it's not
going to be very good so what I did is I
ran out to the hardware store and these
are just plumbing pieces so a little
6-inch pipe and a coupler that is the
the threading of a mic stand if you
don't know I take a mic stand with you
and the hardware store is not going to
mind you doing that so what this is
going to do is that's going to gender
change this for me so now we've got a
female Jack and then I can put that in
there and we've got this nice narrow
about a half inch three-quarter inch
pipe that I can put the head on so if
you see now that hole fits nicely on
there there's still a little bit of
wobble there so let's see what we can do
with that picked up these little felt
pads just from the dollar store so
there's a a buck added to our cost it's
a really cheap project so I'm excited to
see how it performs I'm going to grab a
couple of these felt pads which are
typically used for furniture I'm just
going to put them on here the reason
that I'm doing this and I don't want to
create something built into the head is
I want to make this extremely portable I
want to make it so that I can use the
dummy head anywhere it doesn't have to
be on a stand it can be on a stand I
want to make the reason that I chose the
cs10 Am microphones as opposed to some
of the other ones that are
there for one the cost they are really
relatively inexpensive for the quality
there Roland brand so you know that
they're good but also because they are
in ear headphones let's pull these out
so you can take a look because these go
in your ear or in your dummy's ears
these can now be used I'm not buying a
dummy that is strictly a dummy I've got
now a binaural rig that can be adaptable
so I can take this as a dummy I can put
them in my ear and walk around or put
them in an actors ear and set them in
the coffee shop if that's appropriate
but there are situations when that is
not going to work so you see how these
work so the microphone is on the outside
and these just go in your ears and they
record the perfect audio there you go
so scenarios I'm just going to use this
mic now out of this camera now so see
how that goes beautiful scenarios where
this works are say you're you're filming
walking somewhere or you're doing a shot
where somebody's sitting in a coffee
house and you want to get that ambient
noise it's fine to just stick them in
someone's ears and then it's a lot less
stuff to carry around it's it's easy
also on your camera guy I mean put these
on the camera guy and he's going to get
the exact he or she I should say is
going to get the perfect sound for the
ambient from the cameras perspective
however if you're shooting nature or in
nature I like to shoot a lot of nature
audio so one thing that is true is the
mosquitoes are attracted to heat this is
not going to generate any Heat so if I
wear these the mosquitoes are going to
swarm that's not a problem I wear a bug
net but what happens to my binaural
audio it gets crazy because the
mosquitoes fly right up to the heat
source which is my head and of course
then you hear those in the recording so
this is going to help with the quality
of the recording as well so these are
simply going to go into the ear canals
that we drilled into our dummy head okay
so let's pop this up now see if that's a
better fit now that I've added these
cushions it's going to be nice and snug
see that
beautiful huh that's how snug it is so
this pole this little 6-inch is going to
be kind of a permanently not really
permanently I know that it's just shoved
in there with some with those whatever
you call in the pads look at how solid
that is now it is not I mean my mic
stand is wobbling the the head is not so
now I've got this thing that I can just
screw on to the mic stand wherever I am
set it at my height and we need to name
this guy you want to help me name them
what should we call this dude okay and
then microphone one microphone 2
there we go we have successfully I know
it's crazy right because you think
you've seen some demos where people have
drilled big holes put microphones in the
head now this is so much simpler and
then I've got the ability to take these
out and use them in their traditional
way of just wearing them in my ears as
binaural microphones so again the way
that binaural recording works is because
this is a anatomically correct head so
it's got ears the ear canals are in the
right spot all this stuff doesn't need
to have eyes and things but it does kind
of improve his village it's recording
where the headphones are going to be set
so if you look at this that's exactly
where the headphones are going to be so
as I record from these microphones in
this dummy head it's going to now record
what you would hear if you were this
dummy head so now when I put on
headphones I'm going to hear it
perfectly in 3d so get your headphones
ready I'm going to show you how this
works in just a moment so that's really
all there is to it the next step is you
know we can dress him up put a wig on
and put a hat on him one final thing as
you look at cat5 dot TV slash dummy I
was excited about this because when I
ordered the rollin cs10 EMS this
microphone the binaural microphone
earbuds
I was thinking how am I going to win
scream that and I was thinking maybe I
need to get earmuffs
I thought earmuffs might be a good idea
and I can put earmuffs over top well the
cs10 AMS came in and they do in fact
include wind screens so that you don't
have to worry about wind screens folks
so these wind screens they work just
fine they are they're subtle they just
snap right on on top of the microphone
here you go and now there's a little
added protection from the wind noise on
top of that and you can go all out and
add more stuff but that is going to take
care of a lot of that wind noise that
you're expecting to receive if you're
outside so there we have it it cost us
under 100 bucks
all the totals are there and it looks
pretty good let's take it out in the
field as we wrap up the show so put your
headphones on now stereo headphones make
sure you're watching this in HD if
you're watching on YouTube make sure you
select the button hit the HD mode 720p
and then you're going to hear this in
full 3d surround sound
and
the Pacey
keep the phone up use me
found up in town
easy
you
you picking up the pieces it's laughter
my broken sleigh after my bro
come see ya hey ready I gotta fly it
around the head
well there you have it works great what
do you think thanks for subscribing on
YouTube and thanks for watching the show
show today I'm Robbie Ferguson I'll see
you next time the show show is a
production of the category 5 TV network
find out more or subscribe to our other
shows at category-five TV thanks for
watching
