welcome to category five technology TV
episode number 367 for Tuesday the 30th
of September 2014 welcome to studio D
studio D welcome to season the eighth of
category five technology TV so nice to
see you so nice to have you here Erica
nice to see ya it's nice to see everyone
we are flying on a whim tonight because
here we are this is studio D and we
never ever take a week off and I said
just before the show thinking why didn't
we take two weeks off because we kind of
need it but here we are we're gonna have
some fun tonight
and it's great to have so many people
here in the studio with us and hope that
you enjoy the time that we have together
this is going to be a little bit more
casual a little laid-back and a lot of
fun so welcome to our chat room and
Sasha yeah it's good let's get a shot I
need to get a shot of you here how are
you
it's been great how are you excellent
thank you for asking
I'm sorry that I'm so ill-prepared but
for the record I built a studio this
week
fabulous job thank you my desk is
amazing right okay so let's let's
alright not here with you ready for your
news teas yes hello hello here are the
top stories for the category 5 TV
newsroom Apple is in trouble for using
their base in Ireland to avoid paying
taxes the city of Turin in Italy is
dropping windows and installing a boon
to Linux a bug has been found in bash
that leaves you and your device's wide
open to attack a patch is needed and
Microsoft's Xbox is one of the first
gaming consoles to be released in China
after the ban was lifted earlier this
year
stick around these stories are coming up
later in the show thanks Sasha how do
you like your new sack I love my new
stacks pretty good let's get in there
there we go that's a little bit better
set up a little bit more prepared
welcome to studio D everybody thank you
for joining us and this is going to be a
crazy show we're gonna have lots of
technical issues it's inevitable we knew
it let's do this let's enjoy this is
category 5 technology TV starring Sasha
tomatoes
hilary rumble
Kristen wells
your kid
and your homes
Ravi Ferguson
introducing Beltone first a
revolutionary new hearing aid so small
you can hardly see it so comfortable you
can hardly feel it for the first time
ever you can control hearing aids
directly from your iPhone pick up the
phone
listen to music and use your hearing
aids like wireless headphones hear
everything that matters
try Beltone first for a free trial call
1-800 Beltone now this is category 5
technology TV check out cap 5 TV slash
green you know you want to get one of
these for your garage studio that is the
green screen the sash and I built in
studio C cap five dot TV slash green to
get them they are still on sale check it
out Sascha what do you think as far as
space here in studio D have we got a lot
more room to work with the green screen
this is incredible what I am standing
probably in the old studio if the green
screen was behind me I would be halfway
into the middle of the desk by now this
is more than 20 times the space it's
beautiful beautiful
can we add a few pan over just to show
everybody at home what what kind of set
we're looking at here so this is studio
D fairly makeshift at this point but
here we are and it's it seems to be well
we've got smooth video this is good up
until 2 hours ago we didn't have
internet here at studio D that's a
nerve-wracking thing and down on our
broadcast server here that's the white
server we have a little box connected by
a USB cable that little thing that's
sitting on top of the server is what's
giving us
our internet connection and we're
getting about 13 Meg's up right now so
that's pretty decent but it is pricey
because we're on LTE so we're using
cellular internet service in order to
get our internet service here right now
library Internet is the only thing
that's really available near ly and it's
it's really really expensive so yeah
kind of do what we can with what we have
for the moment and welcome to the chat
room thank you everybody for joining us
tonight category five on freenode yeah
it's nice to see everybody in chat room
again we've had a lot of communication
with Newars over the course of this
backstage pass the building of studio D
and thank you to everybody who's
volunteered to help us out we're not
quite done yet and obviously we're still
setting up the studio itself the
electronic aspect of it but we're
getting there and I want to thank a few
people in particular somebody sent us a
Raspberry Pi master Minds we are going
to build something really really cool
with this maybe a couple of different
things
there you go camera guy that is so
exciting there it is how do you like
that so I haven't opened this thing yet
I kind of want to look at it I is it
looks look delicious yeah I'm just
kidding
so we can we can get a little mounting
kit for this or something and put it on
the back of a computer screen we build
we're working on I'm working on some
programming to build
something to enhance the the show
through communication with their
chatroom and with with some viewers that
are going to be able to remote into this
and send us signals and things if if
there's problem with microphones and
stuff like that
so that's really kind of honestly cool
so thanks to masterminds who decided you
know what as a way to donate to the show
I want to give them some content and
send them a Raspberry Pi so that's
really cool
also I in the chatroom you know him as
whiskey zero I got some post this week
on we love post mills we do yeah there
it is sooner wall Rodya person from
category-five so I got this nice letter
from from whiskey zero and he explains
what whiskey zero means and all this
time I thought he was out of whiskey i
sad story uh it's uh it's it becomes
pretty apparent when we see his callsign
whiskey zero charley horse
is it horse how do you say it there you
go now we know whiskey zero thank you
for sending that in and also included a
donation to help us with getting an
internet connection here we're looking
at some potential options such as
ubiquity x' devices that allow us to put
a tower on the roof here and a tower
somewhere else in town and if we can get
line-of-sight Internet then we'll be
to stream basically are through the
airwaves alright so a bit of a pile is
that whiskey 0 70 years old retired from
a career in telecommunications and IT
industries after working primarily with
long-haul microwave satellite and fibre
optic systems for many years spent 13
years of the tech guy for a local public
school district before retirement very
cool we appreciate the support whiskey 0
thank you so very much and interesting
to note that he is a bit of a
professional when it comes to wireless
internet which is exactly what we have
to do here mm-hmm I'm thrilled that
we're able to broadcast tonight using
the cellular technology that we're using
but we do have to find a more permanent
solution what else have we got our first
card comes to us from my daughter
Natalia meet Ali homemade congrats
studio D it's done this is from my baby
girl dear daddy I am so happy you get to
rent studio D and that you're done and
since you are moving in I have at least
two cardboard boxes for you one
sweetheart love tally
so cute bunch of friends I thought that
was just the doors Thanks that is
awesome
tally of course nine years old and she's
been here helping me with a lot of stuff
and interesting to see she may love the
ho yeah and she's learning this stuff if
you've watched
dace day 33 of backstage pass with the
studio d project she actually got a hold
of the video camera and started walking
around with it and narrating and it was
funny to hear that she's actually
narrating some of the stuff that she's
seeing and understanding what drywall is
and some of the things that I had done
here at the studio so just gonna be good
with electronics she's absorbing the
stuff that's also cuz if she's absorbing
that and wait until we start teaching
her about tack get her on the show in a
number of years yeah she'll just be like
so full of energy and like information
it'll be awesome how's our chat room
doing we're gonna welcome you to get
your questions in Erika's watching the
chatroom if you have any question just
let me know in the chatroom spiced
jackson's tally is gonna be a future
host here on the show thanks everybody
all right well tonight we're going to be
looking at some digital camera software
which I'm really really excited about
because I want to show you how to
enhance your cam your photography by
using some free software that's
available for you on Linux we're going
to be checking that out in a little bit
again we're kind of flying on a on a
whim tonight just because of the fact
that we literally just got set up just
got internet just a few a couple of
short hours ago and and here we are
so chat room please private message us
to get our attention ping us in the chat
room say hi and let us know if you have
specific questions you want to ask
whether it's about technology Linux
anything at all we would
love to have you send those in so I've
got my digital camera here it's a Nikon
d50 100 I love this little camera the
reason that I got it was for video plain
and simple I mean it takes great stills
as well I made a little bit of a mistake
in that when I was doing a photo shoot
and I'm not a photographer by any means
but when I was doing a photo shoot I was
shooting in JPEG and I realized that you
know what I should be shooting in RAW at
this point so I had to do a lot of photo
touching and corrections to get the
colors correct I want you to look at
your camera whether it's a DSLR like
mine a little bit of a you know better
camera than your little point-and-click
cameras those kinds of things some of
the point-and-click cameras are in fact
coming out with the option to shoot to
raw mode do you know what that means is
that no I actually don't know about Rob
Lowe
well when you have when you're shooting
pictures your camera can usually shoot
to a couple of different file formats
usually we choose JPEG because we know
that we're going to be able to open JPEG
images on our computer so it sounds like
the best option right usually what I go
with I've never actually go bro well
JPEG is a compressed file format so
you're losing image data basically the
the camera takes the picture and then
the built in processor has to compress
it remove some data to make the file
smaller and also to be able to process
it because people wouldn't stand for you
know taking a picture and having to wait
10 seconds it's got to be quick
right so it's a real quick dump it to a
JPEG file you lose a lot of information
it's not very good quality compared to a
raw file as a raw file will actually
take all of the data from your sensor so
the sensor is underneath of your lens
and all of the data that enters that
sensor is going to be saved in a raw
file unlike a JPEG which completely you
may be sitting on that information
raw is so much better so I'm just gonna
grab a lens here keep up with me here
camera guy
got a camera guy now hey welcome to the
team Adam thank you sir for being here
okay got my little camera bag here we
actually have a question from the new
the chatroom oh yeah um just a question
knowing how much larger are the files
with raw over the highest resin a pig
well we're gonna find out tonight I
believe because I've set my camera to
raw and JPEG mode so we're gonna get a
picture of each my lens yeah I'll be
good to compare the differences yeah we
go okay we've got a little bit more
flexibility here in studio D don't we
it's not so roomy like if you guys were
to see how big this place is if you've
been following along on Facebook and
everything it's so awesome like so happy
big smiles yeah look we actually go all
the way back Larry so along that vein
you've got a lot of slack there if you
want to stand up and work your way over
to Sasha we'll grab a couple pictures
here okay so my camera the D 5100 is set
to both have you got are you trapped on
it oh no I good okay good good there we
go I'm set to take a picture in both raw
and JPEG so smile for me there with me
you look like a photographer I know
isn't that crazy
you got the whole angle serious face do
i yeah pro pro okay so I got four
pictures in that click one paparazzi
asked yeah have you interesting okay now
this is kind of interesting
no it still it seems to be still saving
see now that I've set to raw so if you
can get in here see what is different
here so we've got the picture and right
down here we've got raw and fine so the
picture is being taken on my DSLR in
both raw mode and fine JPEG mode
so we've got a nice high resolution JPEG
and we've got the raw file which is
going to give us the full quality that
we need okay so see if when you transfer
this over okay hmm I don't have as much
slack as you to talk amongst yourselves
mm-hmm tain us where is Robbie going
where did I go he's plugging in the chip
there we go
well it's actually not called a chip
card card best ESD could be a super way
to go you know it was an SD card that's
my name is Safi tomato so every time I
see you when I'm like SD card that's me
watch that cable there it would still
have printers and stuff sitting around
okay so I can open a folder grab that
file okay this is awesome okay find that
there we go so now I've never really
worked with raw before so this is all
new to me
let's get this somewhere here desktop
I'm going to create a folder and I'm
gonna share it
properties sharing new network to
oK we've got a couple of messages there
to grab it through Samba let's just
leave John 1:3 7.1 slash
moment of truth Thank You Jameson all
right
you ever really want a floppy disk I'm
gonna use this how's that USB what I'm
up against oh sorry you cut me off what
I'm up against I've got to plug into the
camera card reader but that's in the
broadcast server I've got to get it over
to the demo server so I can bring up the
pictures on your screen so in order to
do that I've got to I'm gonna use a
flash drive because we don't actually
have a network here yet what I've done
is I've daisy-chained basically done a
bridge Network so that we can get
internet access on both of the systems
so I'm just gonna switch that over copy
the files just one set it's an adventure
and Sasha yes what I'll get you to do is
when I say go pull that up fabulous
thanks for your patience all right
I'm just going to slap those right onto
that disc and sasha is going to move it
over to the other computer for us just
to expedite things here and copying now
okay so Ashley if you could just move
that over to the other computer for me
and here's hoping would be my luck to
not have access to it unable to mount
that's what Linux tells me that I'm
gonna I'm gonna get that Adams first
show doesn't usually go quite like that
you want to show this here this is a
book just to buy some time while I get
some things fixed up here what I need to
do is I need to get those files up here
and I need to get a desktop presenter
going here for you so this is a book
that is available we're going to
actually be auctioning off some of these
so take a look at that this is all the
memories of the category-five show for
the past seven seasons and it's so
awesome and it's so bright and like it's
just nice like the digital quality of it
it's like opening up all these memories
got a nice little picture Robbie you
category five technology TV a good
memory and just to give you a little
sneak peek before you get optioned off
that's lovely pictures here of the early
years so if you really want to go way
back to see how the show used to be
compared to studio D which is today very
new beginning
we got Becca I'm almost there
Nautilus we got some funny photos
because we love to have fun here
so check out this book that's gonna be
available to you we're gonna have more
information for you coming up soon
alright let's get over here thanks Erica
hey it is a lot of fun to see some of
these memories yeah so cheers to see
alright almost I've got that mounted
there we go okay so we're gonna get a
camera shot here up on the computer
screen just bear with me here folks have
a question from spice Jack's wondering
is more backstage to bid videos of
studio deer coming yes they absolutely
are we're going to be putting them
together for you on an ongoing basis
here we go awesome backstage pass of
course is produce videos that happen
behind the scenes and they're available
on our roku channel if you want to check
that out cat v dot TV slash roku and
I've got my demo system just about ready
here for you folks and I apologize for
the delay I know we're live but I've got
it there okay so we can see two
different files here the jpg file is
2.10 per me know eight point four
megabytes so this is the file that I
just took all right and the raw file is
twenty two point one megabytes so huge
difference I don't think you can well
you can look at that Linux
double-clicking brought it up in what
appears to be a very very low resolution
brought it up in document viewer it's
like a thumbnail mm-hmm that's
interesting a twenty seven twenty two
Meg file and it loads up as a thumbnail
okay
so what I want to do is I want to try
out a piece of software that is going to
allow us to manipulate these files
because one of the things that happens
when you take photos is that you don't
always get the the lighting right and
I'll explain a little bit what I was
saying
this photo shoot that I did we had a lot
of natural sunlight with the natural
sunlight
it was it was super super bright and we
didn't have the ability to I didn't
really you know you're kind of going
like this over the articulating screen
so you're like this the Sun is super
bright and I haven't got the exposure
correct now understand that taking raw
photos is not just about taking pictures
that are better quality out of the gate
the fact is like I said you've got all
the information from that camera sensor
so if you're in a scenario where you've
got the the exposure or the brightness
the contrast if you've got that wrong
during the photo session itself so
you're taking pictures and you get it
wrong then you can go back to a raw file
and you can manipulate it losslessly so
what that means is now with a JPEG it's
a lossy file so every time you edit a
JPEG you lose quality when you edit a
raw file you don't lose quality so I'm
going to bring up synaptic package
manager' here on my system
synaptic package manager' being just the
package manager that I'm using to
install applications here there we go
and I'm going to do a quick search here
the software we're looking for is called
dark table it's all one word there it is
it's available for you free on your
Linux box make sure you install this and
blow your mind there we go and apply now
with your repositories with the synaptic
package manager' as you know it's going
to just download that it's going to
install it and you don't have to insert
a disk or try to find the program at all
you just go in and type in the name of
the application so that's dark table and
that's installing now almost there
okay so we need to be able to manipulate
nuts finished installing we need to be
able to manipulate these photo the photo
that I took we're just using that as the
example lighting in here is fairly
controlled but we'll want to kind of fix
up the contrast and the and the colors
and everything there but before we get
into that we're gonna do the news sash
is over there being so patient with me
through all this technological
marvelousness I'm loving it from the
sidelines alright so the way this is
wonderful I hope that yet I hope you see
the humor in this and everyone here I'm
sure does but well we're like just
putting it all together and this is a
technological marvel you ready for me to
push that button
alright here we go take it away here are
the top stories from the category 5 TV
newsroom Apple faces fines of billions
of euros as investigators prepare to
accuse the company of receiving illegal
state aid in Ireland for more than 20
years the European Commission began
looking into Apple's tax affairs in
Ireland where the US company cites its
international headquarters in June this
week according to UK's Financial Times
the EC's preliminary findings will be
presented with formal accusations
against Apple Apple's international
operations have been based in County
Cork Ireland since 1980 the company
employs 4000 people in Ireland other
major companies headquartered in Ireland
include Amazon Facebook PayPal and
Twitter
it's popular based because of the
friendly corporate tax rate of 12.5
percent but despite that already
relatively low rate Apple pays less than
2% in tax there as uncovered by a US
Senate investigation in 2013 the company
has secured that lower rate by
channeling overseas sales through
subsidiaries that investigation found
the company the company's Ireland based
subsidiary could be holding a whopping
60 percent of apples profits to avoid
bringing that money back to the US where
it would be hit with a much higher tax
yet despite all of that money sloshing
around the subsidiary is allowed to
claim itself as a non taxing resident of
Ireland Apple isn't the only company nor
Ireland the only country to be targeted
or to be targeted on tax multinational
body of the Organisation for Economic
Cooperation and Development or oacd is
cracking down on tax havens across
Europe the OECD is looking at taxation
agreements with Starbucks in the
Netherlands and Fiat in Luxembourg whoo
now we have the city the city of Turin
which has decided to ditch Windows XP in
favor of Ubuntu this is amazing news and
the movie then the move will save them
six million euros in the next five years
six million pounds in the next five
years well the move will mean installing
the open-source operating system on 8300
pcs which will generate an immediate
savings of roughly 300 pounds per
machine almost 2.5 million all together
made up from the cost of Windows and
Office licenses a sum that will grow
over the years as the need for renewal
of proprietary software licenses
vanishes and the employees get used to
the new machines or rather to the old
ones another reason for the switch is
that the 8300 computers Turin uses are
quite old and installing Windows 8 would
probably have been too demanding for
them whereas Linux offers more
flexibility for more mature machines and
a support for Windows XP officially
ended this year
sticking with Microsoft didn't make much
sense to turn the switch to a boon to
was officially approved in early August
and expected to take around a year and a
half to complete that is the best news
of the day I love its Asha that is great
news and how awesome that Linux can save
us so much money I you know we kind of
tell you that from here but to think
that a whole town has picked up on that
is gonna save that kind of money anyway
it's gonna be a starting point I you
know what I feel like maybe we will be
very popular all of a sudden into
Italy there you go category 5 my my
curiosity it becomes will others towns
start to pick up on wait a minute okay
they did it they tried it it worked
they saved millions and millions and
billions of long along yeah whatever
currency it was we didn't have the euro
room house and it's one of the two one
of the two it could be either I feel
like yeah it's the yeah
does it look like Santa it looks like a
an e like a final of zero she marries an
e has blowed money boatload of money so
that's nice by dropping windows and
going to Ubuntu Linux that's awesome
Wow all right on to sad news just months
after Hartley heartbleed made waves
across the internet a new security flaw
known as the bash bug or shell shock is
threatening to compromised everything
from major servers to connected cameras
the quarter century old security flaw
allows malicious code to malicious code
execution within the bash shell commonly
accessed through command prompt on PC
airmax
terminal application to take over an
operating system and access confidential
information a post from open source
software company Red Hat warned that is
common for a lot of programs to run bash
through command or run bash shell in the
background and the bug is triggered when
access code is added within the lines of
bash code Todd Beardsley an engineering
manager at security firm rapid7 warned
that even though the vulnerabilities
complexity was low the wide range of
devices affected require that the system
administrators apply patches immediately
the vulnerability is potentially a very
big deal
Beardsley told CNET it's rated at 10 for
severity meaning that it has maximum
impact and loke for complexity of
exploitation meaning it's pretty easy
for attackers to use it script kiddies
that is crazy
the affected software Bosch is widely
used so attackers can use this
vulnerability remotely to execute a huge
variety of devices and web servers using
this vulnerability attackers can
potentially take over the operating
system access confidential information
make changes etc any one of the systems
using bash need to deploy the patch
immediately there's a great article on
z:d net to help you secure your systems
we've got a hot link for you at cat 5
shell-shocked that is shocking really
sorry that's cat five dot TV slash
shell-shocked my typo fact is a lot of
systems use bash a lot so we're talking
Linux but not just Linux we're talking
your router's mobile devices hardware
like your fridge if you've got a smart
fridge probably was compiled in you know
using batch fortunately if you use
dd-wrt they don't use bash in that
router firmware so keep in mind that
you're probably safe you're out into it
and check what what shells what shell
system they're using but you need to
find out you need to check out that link
that sash was mentioning cat 5 TV slash
shellshock mmm-hmm that will help you
great great article from ZDNet things
could go catastrophic ly wrong it
certainly could and we're talking when
when this you know the story says that
it's really really easy for someone to
exploit this so you imagine somebody
being able to hack into your Linux
computer or smart device and be able to
compromise become an elevated user and
do what
that's pretty scary stuff do you live in
China this is great news
in January the Chinese government lifted
a 14-year ban on gaming consoles made
because of worries over content and
Microsoft has been both Nintendo and
Sony to store shelves
Microsoft has launched the Xbox one in
China becoming the first major console
maker to enter what could be a massively
lucrative market no doubt the first
consoles were sold in Shanghai priced at
four thousand two hundred and ninety
nine one or six hundred $99 Sony and
Nintendo are yet to launch their
respective products however many popular
titles such as Call of Duty will still
be banned only ten games were available
to buy on the Xbox ones release date but
Microsoft has said that 70 titles are in
the pipeline beating its rivals to the
market may give Microsoft a much-needed
sales boost its console is currently
being outsold by Sony's PlayStation 4 in
all major markets except China except
time Sony has been set up has set up
business partnerships to launch the ps4
in China but a date has not yet been set
Wow
great news for Xbox one for more top
stories visit NEWSROOM category-five TV
for the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha dramatis thanks Sasha you are
welcome this is category 5 technology TV
I'm your host Robbie Ferguson I'm your
co-host air :
and sarafina's is here and Kelsey's here
and Adams here Lionel's here and it's
just a party up in here and you're here
so thanks for being here everybody
shower do we have questions in
the chat room at this point Erica we do
have a question um from Revd
jink sorry if I butchered it um would
PNG be a better format than JPEG because
of the compression loss for talking
about the DSLR Nikon yeah when it comes
to pictures revenue jank ping is a
lossless format so similar to raw it is
not going to become more lossy I hate to
use the word lossy because if you don't
understand what lossy means it's it's
not a good word to use you lose quality
with a JPEG every time you open it do
something to it and save it you lose a
lot of quality with a ping its lossless
you can open it you can do things with
it you can save it and you don't lose
quality
that's awesome however don't know any
cameras that's safe to ping and what's
different about raw that is so Penn Fink
ping when you're creating files in GNU
image manipulation program or Photoshop
if you export as a ping as opposed to a
JPEG you're going to get a higher
quality file that you can later
manipulate a little bit better than say
a JPEG however a raw file that comes off
your camera is not just a lossless file
it's not just a better quality image it
is all that but it's also every bit of
data that that camera had at that moment
is saved to that file so all of the data
that is available during the moment when
you took the picture it throws it on to
the the file
so if you want to modify it you have
much more than just say the lossless
ability to modify an existing file you
can actually tweak oh well I got the
exposure wrong or I had the colors were
a little bit off you can tweak those
colors in such a way that it's almost
exactly as if you were standing with the
camera retaking that picture over a game
how do you like that so if you don't get
it perfect every time
raw is going to allow you to go back
make those perfections fix those kinds
of things and and do a much better job
losslessly of doing it so we know that
we've got the files here let's take a
look okay so I've got that JPEG I've got
the NEF file I guess that's the raw so
that's cool I'm going to bring up my
computer screen here and let's take a
look at this new program that we've got
we're going to open darktable goes under
graphics and there we go so first thing
that we need to do of course we need to
select some images so I'm gonna actually
grab those from you know I can grab them
from wherever I see if I can drag and
drop that'd be the easy way no it
doesn't let me so this is awkward I'm
there we go import folder and I want to
grab that from wherever I've saved it to
so in my case let's hit ctrl L and I put
that in temp test shared there we go so
there are the two versions the file so
there's a JPEG there's an N EF so with
light table what's awesome is that okay
so they're there they are but notice
that it's got the NEF file the raw file
so if I switch now I'm in lighttable
mode let's look at the interface a
little bit so that we understand because
it is a little bit complex when you
first look at it so I imported from over
here I this is just where I can see what
photos are loaded in that's cool but
over here in the darkroom
up at the top right we're going to click
in the dark room that's where we're
actually going to be able to make some
changes to these photos so in dark room
I'm going to bring up the NEF file by
double-clicking on it it's fix them Oh
that's marinated chive f11 to go
fullscreen
what's that homemade Triforce t-shirt
nice what's cool
so with I want to talk a little bit
about darktable because what is amazing
about this we've talked about los eNOS
and the ability to manipulate the file
and and tweak it in such a way that you
can't really do with a JPEG but what's
really really really cool about
darktable is you can make changes to the
photo whether it's a JPEG or a raw file
ok don't get me wrong this program will
work wonders with your JPEG files if you
need to correct the lighting or anything
like that
you can still do that with darktable
however it's going to allow you to
really really tweak those RAW files
beautifully very professionally I might
add what's unique about this product
this free program that you can download
to your computer let's backtrack and
think about GNU image manipulation
program yep let's think about Photoshop
and the way that you can open a JPEG
image into those programs you can
manipulate them you can correct the
colors and then you can save your file
overtop of the old one and what if you
made a mistake what if you want to go
back and revert and you forgot to save a
backup copy or if you did save a backup
copy you start back with the original
and then you have to do all those steps
again to manipulate it because you
didn't do something right with the
colors this does not touch the original
image what darktable does instead it has
a completely different approach you're
able to manipulate the colors and all
the different tones and all that about
the image think about the levels tool in
Photoshop or the GIMP and be able to
make those changes losslessly on the
image and then it saves you don't have
to push save it actually saves a to
database and then when you're ready when
you're happy with it you export to a new
file you never make any changes that are
to the original file at all it's really
really a cool process to be able to do
this I hit f11 I was having some trouble
getting into full screen mode f11 took
me there so check this out so I've got
the picture here I can zoom with with my
scroll wheel on the mouse
I can move around just by clicking and
dragging it's pretty pretty cool indeed
now up here on the right hand side I've
got a few different tools I've got the
first one is these are tools that are
currently in use in my active pipe these
are my favorites this one here is basic
tools and then it goes on and on
tonality colors and all those kinds of
things so there's a few different things
I want to look at first of all we like
fixing things like levels so if I go to
the tone group and open levels let's
activate that you're going to get used
to the the way that darktable works but
there's a power button for each tool and
when I push that power button you can
see the spectrum just like you could in
say the GIMP or Photoshop I'll use those
examples so understanding how that works
bringing up the brightness so that it's
at the right point in the in the
spectrum adjusting the image itself
see how I'm increasing or decreasing the
brightness just using levels right so I
can really really tweak that image but
see I'm not happy with that I hit the
power button and it goes away on/off
there's my setting you've got your curve
this is brilliant so this is just like
you would expect from your level editor
however it is smooth and it
automatically shows you the basically
the safety margins there you go so you
can tweak that really really nicely as
well so next up we've got more plugins
down here and you'll see this is there's
a wealth of available options here Erica
and and things that you can do with this
product losslessly against your image
without ever affecting the original
image and just awesome stuff let's jump
back here
okay so let's say we're ready to work
with this picture we see a couple of
different things here we've got the
drape on the left hand side that is
exposing the wall so I'll come back two
more plugins because I want to show you
some vignettes and cool stuff like that
so do we want to find one let's see here
crop and rotate which is found under
basic group and all you have to do is
just click on an empty area see how I'm
able to click on there's exposure there
is crop and rotate so I just click on an
empty area for this particular module
and it takes me there so now with crop
and rotate active I can drag the image
the edges of the image you notice that
it's proportional right now I may not
want that so I can actually change the
crop aspect ratio to freeform now I can
just do whatever I want with that image
so we can do something like that crop
the image however we like here we are
so now as soon as I click on a different
module you'll see that my crop takes
place well you're used to a photo editor
where once you've cropped you've got to
undo in order to undo something right
again this is just a module so if I
power it off it goes away power it back
on there's my crop again and it's back
and forth between them so now I've got
the colors kind of the levels kind of
tweaked I can make some other different
changes but one of the things that I
want to do I mentioned a vignette adding
a bit of a vignette to the photo so
let's let's go back it's nice to that
yeah it kind of adds a nice little
effect let's go back here and we're
going to grab I'm gonna grab you Erica
and notice it again I'm not damaging my
original photo whatsoever but I want to
take this and turn it into say a
portrait so there we go we've got a
portrait of Erica just like that and
under more plug-ins look at all this
stuff that you've got we've got
everything from you know high passes and
various color changing things so the
first time that you click on one it
shows it the second time that you click
on it it adds it to a favorite and the
third time that you click on it it
removes it from your lists up here so if
I click on vignette Chauvin getting now
the vignette has been added to the
effect group over here if I click it
again it's going to add it to my
favorites so now it's a part of my
favorites if I click it again it's gone
so I'm going to click it once so that it
puts it over here in the effect group
and you'll see that it's added this
circle for me a circle to my image so I
can bring in the inner circle to change
kind of where the spotlight takes place
on this image and I can affect by
grabbing the outer circle the gradients
of that vignette so I can really kind of
tweak that if I hold in my left ctrl key
it's going to go proportional so then I
can do perfect circles and things like
that so now I'm going to grab that the
middle of that and place it on your face
so that we put that so that you're
you're kind of enhanced as far as your
you know your face but the photo itself
is got that nice vignette in going on
make it a little more subtle by dragging
and then again I can zoom in and out see
how things look kind of thing so now
I've got this great image and again if I
click off to something else
there's my vignette there's the cropping
looks really really nice and we can
continually it we can go through all
these different filters and things to be
able to to fix up the photo if you're
using something like a fisheye lens
which typically distorts the image and
takes walls that should be straight and
makes them have a bit of a curvature to
them this will also allow for lens
correction so it automatically detects
from the photo the the type of camera
that you're using and then you can
specify the type of lens and be able to
correct that
so you'll find tools like this under the
correction group you can go into lens
correction you'll see that it's already
detected that this is a Nikon
5100 and it's saying that it's an 18 to
55 millimeter lens if you can see that
right up here this is the lens that I
installed on here 18 to 55 millimeter
there it is
so it's it's nailed it and so if I've
got a different lens on there and I want
to be able to correct it
whether it be fisheye like I said we can
do that kind of thing
correcting for panoramas and things like
that so you're able to take a photo that
was originally really really you know
not imperfect I'll say and correct it so
from there the one final tool that I
want to show you is the amazing ability
to make exceptional great grayscale
images we all kind of like the nostalgia
of you know sepia tones or black and
white photos and sometimes you've taken
a photo in in color anything oh that
would look amazing as a black and white
so what do you tend to do you tend to
oil change it to monochrome what does
that do it just pulls all the colors
right it's not really the perfect you
will do it not those darkest iphitus
fenders that's not as light now it's
just weird when you do it just goes
black much yeah it's just black of
course darktable it takes it one step
further and says okay well this is we're
actually manipulating a photo
professionally here basically so we're
going to take that photo and in the
colors here the color group go down to
monochrome and you'll see as soon as I
activate that we get a really nice
professional-looking monochrome image
however I can in fact drag and drop the
virtual color filter so you think about
a color filter on a camera and the
ability to tweak the black and white
photo by changing the color tonality of
the black and white filter that you're
using so I can drag that and I can find
the perfect spot
I think leaning probably because you've
got the pink shirt on leaning toward the
the orange pink kind of end of the
spectrum I end up with this really
wonderful looking portrait from that
simple shot that we took against a green
screen we haven't even touched the fact
that it's a chroma key screen
could pull the background out and put
you anywhere but that's as simple as it
is so this is dark table that's
available for you free next step of
course we've got this great image that
we've created we're going to go back to
light table and there's the image but
again well how come it's it saved that
way no it's not I can actually revert I
can go back in every every spot that
that I've created I can change anything
that I want and it's entirely lossless
and it hasn't overwritten anything but
when I'm ready now I can highlight one
image or I can highlight two images with
control I can hit control a to select
all I can just highlight the image that
I've created and I can export I'm going
to save it to a file on the disc what
format do you want let's say you want an
8-bit jpg or if you want that ping Rev
DJ you can export it to a lossless ping
but in this case because it's safe for
Facebook we're just going to save it as
a JPEG 8-bit 90% quality and export
could not create reason for that is
because I'm not route and I've actually
put it in a root folder so I can export
to a different folder let's see there we
go let's save it on my desktop instead
that's all there is to it you can see it
runs really really fast it's it runs
beautifully let's jump back here to our
folder you'll see my nef file I'm going
to bring it back up and again I'm going
to get that oh it actually has opened it
in in darktable so now it knows that
it's that that's what it's for
so you'll see that the image itself has
not been manipulated it's still the
green screen but if I go to my desktop
and grab that image as it is there's our
new jpg how do you like that called
darktable you can get it online through
your web browser it is available for Mac
as well but not through your web browser
but through synaptic package manager'
your favorite package manager grab that
for your Linux machine even if you're
just a hobbyist and you just want to
take your photos to the next level it's
a great tool to be able to do that and
now we've gotten away from that stigma
of taking photos in RAW my camera will
take both the JPEG and the raw image now
I can work with those raw images safely
and confidently make them look beautiful
export them and share them with family
and friends and we are just touching the
surface of what darktable is able to do
so check it out dark table is available
for you through your repositories just
install it without get or however you
want to get it it's available for you on
Linux absolutely free there you have it
thanks everybody this is category 5
technology TV welcome to the show my
name is Robby Ferguson you'll find our
website triple W category 5 TV if this
is your first time or if if you're
fairly new here this is our brand new
studio and we're just getting used to it
we're just getting our feet wet and
we're just learning our way to broadcast
in this new space and new equipment yeah
learning everything you stood there are
you wiring everything they're asking
about the brick wall the chat room yes
well you see you can see this this wall
that we have behind us it's beautiful
and it's very plain but we had
Kelsey and and we had Kelsey's mom here
and they were painting this two hours
before the show just to make sure that
it looked nice for you because it was
just drywall and so it looks really good
so what we're actually working on at or
doing if you've been watching backstage
pass you know that Jean Bamford is
working with us to pick colors and do
all that stuff so she's actually looking
at some brick or cobblestone ish kind of
wallpaper for us it's going to be a
really nice backdrop what was decided
because when we got into this space and
realized wow this is this is a really
big room we didn't we didn't really know
where everything was going to fit in so
we're gonna give it a couple of weeks
maybe a few weeks to really feel out the
space learn where where's the best spot
for the desk I think this is probably a
pretty okay spot this is good but we've
got a big room we've got the
green-screen
chromakey studio space as well we've got
an interview area over here I don't know
if Adam if you can pan over just to show
people the space and you've certainly
seen this on backstage pass but over
we've got a new area that's going to be
for interviews so this is this is going
to be great as well so we've got all
this space and we're just kind of
feeling out where we're going to put
everything and once we know that then
Jean will be coming in with that
wallpaper and we'll be putting that up
and getting it all going so thanks for
the question and thank you for those who
have been following along with backstage
pass a question from spice tracks in the
chat room is wondering if dark table is
similar to light room and it is there
are many different programs light room
is one of them that are available for
you I'm not sure Lightroom is probably
commercial is it
but regardless a dark dark table is
absolutely free and it's available on
Linux or Mac and you can install it just
like I did tonight through cellular
internet as we broadcast it so it is a
very similar application as far as what
it does it really took away the stigma
for me of being able to switch to RAW
format images yeah it is good to know
cool people in the chatroom mentioning
that my microphone is no good is that is
that a little bit better I'm sorry folks
we're gonna we're gonna learn our way in
the new studio space here there we go
yeah thank you for letting us know in
the chat room yeah is everything helps
there you go
maybe is listening on just one headphone
cuz we're in stereo I'm over here she's
over there
Sasha's
over there yeah well you can't see me
any other questions for us in the
chatroom I mean this has been an
interesting episode for us here because
we're just just learning the space so
what do you guys think maybe I think of
this space love it
hmm I love the space Kelsey's giving us
the thumbs up from over there you can't
see her but she's here you got a wave
before we sign off for something to
coffee machine yes there's a coffee
machine we're pretty well set up yeah so
hey Lionel wants a couch because he's
sitting on a ladder so you know whatever
whatever works right now so well we're
excited about what's to come for season
eight and we love the first episode this
is our pilot if you will show then
welcome it was a really brave thing to
jump in tonight and say you know what
we're not gonna miss a Tuesday we're
gonna make it happen we're gonna do this
and here we are we did it
kind of sorta mm-hmm what do you got I'm
just reading the chatter Oh reading the
chat room like this alright um Dennis
Kelly was asking how can you explain
BitTorrent sync
LM GT FY
that's as quick as I can do it three
people went maybe not any other
questions for thanks DK how is the the
feed bin tonight I'm interested to know
I know a lot of you are watching this on
demand after the fact and it's a little
bit different but we're broadcasting
through that thing connected to the
broadcast server and it seems to be
working okay so what do you think so
check out our website category five dot
TV let's let's fix that up there you go
LM g t FY dot-com now you get it now you
get all right cool Dennis Kelly says
that the feed has been pretty good
tonight a little bit of lag
unfortunately we're having some trouble
getting Roku up and running through this
connection it's it may be a limitation
of the device I'm not too sure not the
Roku but the device that we're using for
Internet and we're going to try to get
to the bottom of that we thought we were
going to be on Roku tonight and it
didn't happen so Zoran soon thank you so
much my friend and thanks everybody for
joining us tonight thanks to everybody
who's helped out here at the studio I
know some of our volunteers are watching
as well and you know here we are it's
really just the first of many great
shows here at category five studio D
before we know what we're going to be
really just enjoying this space and
being able to do a lot more Sasha can
you imagine when we did the green screen
demo we've got now what we used to have
to about here and now we've got oh good
I can't even reach the wall from there
it's it's way back there so it could run
laps right here so for your back is yeah
be careful you've got your new studio as
well which is awesome
Wow and I'm going to be here every
single week now that I have my own
newsroom there you go sounds great so
and we'll tweak that and here we are
with Telestream Wirecast which is a cat5
dot TV slash Wirecast
version 6 is coming out it's an
extremely exciting upgrade we are going
to be at the forefront and showing you
all the new features but Wirecast
lets us do this and this we're
broadcasting through cellular internet
from a computer system because we don't
have internet here and thank you wire
cache for being able to make it happen
Wirecast is the broadcast suite that we
use here and it's awesome that's what
we're looking at right now that's what's
up on my screen
and it is incredible that we can do live
chroma key green-screen live on the air
just from a computer system with
Telestream water captain cells with my
past working with chroma key you do it
do it do it do it and then you never get
it alive it's awesome it's really tough
to key on a live usually it's like going
back with your photos you got to go back
and rekey yeah your your hair goes green
and so it disappears and you get
reflections and stuff but here we took
some special detail is the type of
lights that we put in the roof follow
and I worked hard on that and seems to
be getting a very good key even live and
that's just from a that Logitech c920
webcam if you can believe and we're keen
quite well this actually give us some
motion maybe wave your hand just -
that's a really good test of chroma key
its ability to key out the green behind
you good thing I didn't put green nail
polish on yeah if you had green nail
polish so now if I take that shot in in
wire cast so for us here what that looks
like is this and so I can take her shot
and disable chroma key enable chroma key
just like that and I can put anything in
there so the desk that's in front of her
the scene behind her could you put me on
the Starship Enterprise
I could certainly put me on the Starship
Enterprise and we'll be able to do some
really really cool stuff you and I for
our Halloween episode as well so
kind of looking forward to some of the
things that we'll be able to do we
haven't made the decision yet we should
cast a vote in the chat room what should
we do hmm give us your ideas Halloween
episode sounds good to me
get your votes in so we're gonna keep
going on studio D we've still got some
painting to do the blue wall needs
another coat we've got a TARDIS to
install the storage room that is much
bigger on the inside than the outside
and everybody at home thank you so much
for participating in tonight's show
thanks for being here and thank you for
helping us to get to where we are right
here in our brand-new studio studio D
check out our website category 5 TV if
you're interested in learning more about
the studio Dodie project go to cat5 dot
TV slash studio and you'll be able to
see all the videos there from day one
all the way up till now what it's taken
to get into this space thanks everybody
for being here Kelsey you gotta wave on
camera I see how you do you're here
nobody believes me so she's here
thanks everybody thanks Sasha thanks
Erica Kelsey
Lionel take care everybody have a good
night
and where's my buttons we hope you
enjoyed the show category five TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every Tuesday at 7:00 p.m.
Eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at
category-five TV and find out when you
can watch live and interact in the
community chat room category 5 is a
production of prodigy digital solutions
and is licensed under Creative Commons
Attribution 2.5 Canada we'll see you
next time
thanks for tuning in
