hi and welcome back to new every day my
name is Carrie and my name is Jen and on
stage show we're talking about missions
again Part B
alright welcome back and that we're so
glad that you've tuned in whether you're
listening on stitcher whether you are
watching on YouTube or from our website
new everyday TV we welcome you we also
invite you to check us out on facebook
you can follow us there we invite you to
leave a post you can send us a message
we would love to hear from you yes so
Jen the last two weeks we have been
talking about missions short-term
missions supporting local missionary
should push nourish mission Irish
supporting them very important yes sorry
so we also shared about you know I just
got back from Nicaragua they're very
short-term mission of 10 days um but
yeah we still had some things that we
wanted to talk about and share so one of
the things that you had mentioned Jen
when you went to Cambodia was that you
struggled when you got home with just
the amount of wealth that we have yes
and struggling with maybe some guilds
like tell us about that when I was in
Cambodia I was I almost want to say
slapped silly like just like what but I
was like oh my with regards to how much
we have compared to how little they have
I remember driving down the road in our
truck and just thinking oh my goodness
run this you know truck and we're
sitting on benches in the back and we
would never do this in Canada and yet on
a motorcycle beside me is a family
little girl dad another child mom mom is
holding an IV bag in her hand right on a
motorcycle like it's on herself for the
child like you can see that it was going
into the child and the mom was holding
on a motorcycle we would never do that
here and I just I remember just coming
away from that going what why I don't
understand this we would um we went into
a community out
side of the city and like the kids were
all clothed and clean and um and I'm
like okay like this this would seems
normal and then we might further in and
they said specifically when you go
further in you're going to see more of
the poverty yeah and I was like okay so
we actually had to get on a boat to go
to this island and the kids come running
towards us and their hair is all matted
and like the kids aren't wearing shirts
and they are dirty yeah but man were
they happy like they're disallowing and
happy and playing and that's what they
wanted to do is play with us and we went
to a dump and we actually said there was
a school beside the dot that said school
for dump workers yeah and so we saw
these little children running across
running across the dump like piles of
garbage piles of garbage and they are
singing and happy and I'm begin well
like this is outside of of what I would
perceive to be acceptable right and I
really struggled with it um and so when
I came home so I've been there for three
weeks and I saw just kids you know with
old bikes playing with old bikes kids
with clothes on that they probably had
worn all week or maybe a month or all
year yeah you know until they grow out
of them yeah and yet they're playing and
they're lovin life and they're happy and
I really struggled with materialism like
thinking well they don't have a new bike
they don't have a fun their clothes are
filthy they're playing with a stick like
how could these kids possibly be happy
and love life and you know you be
successful where they are living and I
came back and I remembered landing in
san francisco yeah and these two people
came walking towards me and they were
massive like up tall height it's all in
stature but also like
too many slurpees too many slurpees I
really struggled with it cuz I'm like
you could barely fit one of those people
on those motorcycles and yet here is an
entire family now granted people in in
Cambodia are smaller in stature but very
rarely would you find an overweight
person yeah and that's not but I totally
know what you're saying it's not to say
that like if you we're not saying if
you're overweight the know you are
indulgent and they know I've got family
members who they've got medical
conditions where they just yeah they
cannot lose weight so yeah thing no and
that's not what I think but I wasn't it
was more like a another slap to say wow
we have so much that we have an
overabundance we have an over abundance
and I remember as soon as I got home
from that trip I went to Rochester on a
missions trip yeah I remember um going
into the wendy's for a meal and they
said well what size do you want and they
showed i said well what are what your
sizes look like and like the medium was
this big the large and then like the
super large was like a two-liter pop and
I Mike I'll just I'll have a small
please Wow and I really struggled with
that as well just the access or excess
the excess the access to the excess um
was just so prevalent and so easy to get
and I remember going to the mall and I
literally had to leave them all like my
friends went in to a clothing store and
I'm thinking I know what's in your
clothes you're at your closets that you
have a closet full and I actually had to
leave the store that we were in so I was
overcome by the fact that I don't need
any of this and that's that's what I
struggled with when I came oh yeah it
was just the balance of the fact and the
Lord had to do a real work in my heart
to say I have called you to North
America this is where you are born this
is where you are raised and I had to
actually start giving thanks for the
goodness that the Lord had blessed me
with in that area of my life
but i really like i couldn't i didn't
buy anything for myself for about a year
i think i bought one pair of pants that
was it because I struggled with here
these kids um in Cambodia and Vietnam
who have nothing and yet they're happy
mm-hmm right and here i am with my
closet full of clothes my drawers full
of clothes my fridge full of food and i
can be complaining I have nothing to
wear I have nothing to eat and yeah I've
got to cook something yes and I really
for about a year I had I really
struggled with what am I called to like
how should I be spending my money what
actually constitutes happiness right I
mean that was one of the biggest things
that I struggled with was you know those
kids were perfectly happy and I have
this mindset that they weren't or you
said you mentioned success yeah well
what does success in this life really
look like yeah and you know we would say
well we know it's not about having money
you know but that's not about that but
you know we want a nice house swingball
ones we want a car we want all these
things yeah but what really constitutes
success I should be curious to see what
our viewers have to say about that so um
you will put a quick post on Facebook um
for this week what do you think
constitutes a successful light what does
that look like yes mm-hmm so that was
one of my struggles in coming back yeah
remission we owe materialism that we see
here in North America yeah and what is
enough or what is the right balance and
to actually give thanks if I have wealth
because I was rich compared compared um
and most of the room does not live like
we live in North America yes and there
are people in north america america who
lived well below the poverty line but
our poverty line and the poverty line in
Nicaragua and
you know isolated parts of China is
completely different yes um yeah so it's
a struggle I did struggle with that to
the first couple times coming back like
what am I really do i need this what am
i buying yeah i agree like these people
are living on one dollar one american
dollar a day that's all they would need
and so you'd see them rumbling through
the rustling through the garbage just to
find enough that they could sell
possibly just interesting that they're
going through the garbage to find stuff
that they can sell or to live off of but
all they need is one one American dollar
a day and so it causes me to think what
do I actually need how much do I need
every day to live on yeah and I don't
want to be cheap but actually surrender
that to the Lord to save the Lord what
do I need to live on what is important
and when we say give us this day our
daily bread trusting him daily even with
our food if that's scary thing to ask it
can be it can't be when you open up the
fridge and you anything there's nothing
here like are we actually willing to
surrender that time and say okay Lord
can help me be creative like obviously
very few of us would say there's nothing
in the cupboard when really it really is
there's nothing going on here like the
creativity isn't working though it's a
cook and where it could be lazy and
because somebody doesn't pop up yeah but
everyone's okay Lord I don't want to
spend 15 nine dollars on a meal when I
really do have food in the fridge and
the cupboard would you help me be
creative so that I can get the
sustenance I need without spending money
because I do have yeah and that's
something that I think maybe I need to
pray more about a asking God well what's
it look to be like to be a cheerful
Giver how many a cheerful cheerful Giver
because in the Bible says God loves
those who give cheerfully yeah so I met
so on the flip side of this Jen um we're
talking earlier about how I've met
people who have gone on short and longer
term missions trips
come home and have kind of been a little
bit of spiritual Cindy pants so I say
that can you define the spirit of snooty
pants just for those that is maybe
English is not the first language so
they kind of gave the impression that
that North American culture was really
bad and that we are bad people because
we have resources okay and that you know
our spirituality was not as good as the
spirituality that experienced in a third
world and in some ways they were right
they saw that we are not using our walk
away we should we are not investing in
people the way that we should and
sometimes they were right yes but
sometimes they came across as as
unloving and almost not giving people
the hope they didn't give a sense of
hope that you know what we can make a
difference and let's let's invest in
this together what difference we make
locally for the people who are really
struggling it was like you know why this
is just visited were terrible people and
so it kind of maybe put a bad taste in
my mouth initially for short-term
missions and I was just I don't know
have you experienced that or even seeing
that I guess I have heard you know we
have sent kids on missions trips and
they'll come back and they'll be like
well they do it this way in Africa or
they do it this way and usually most of
the kids that I've been in contact with
have been in Africa so you know they'll
when they take up the offering they sing
and they dance and how come we don't
sing and dance when we take the offering
and how come you know how come we aren't
meeting together as a church to pray
more or how come and it's like I'm so
glad that you are on fire and I don't
want to quench the fire that is going on
inside of you yeah but you're actually
putting you are not encouraging people
to rise up you're actually turning them
away
and so how do we that I think that's a
great question to ask is is how do we it
was a response when we come home yes
yeah and they are sometimes I think man
we need to adopt that practice that came
from this country or from this other
church in another community locally like
they are really investing time to get to
know Jesus and it's coming out as a
wonderful fruit of worship or a
wonderful fruit of serving in their
community and that can happen locally
here you can have in any culture because
God is the god of every culture every
person and we're all going to be
praising him in heaven one day yes but
that I want to bring that here and
people come back from missions excited
and wanting to implement in their own
church and I think as a church family we
need to encourage those people too yeah
so it works both ways I think people
coming back from visions it also
requires a sensitivity to our own
culture but I think we can have a holy
discontent for the things that are not
right and as a church family we need to
support that and say yep you're right we
shouldn't be doing things that way we
need to be more generous and then
encouraging them mm-hmm I do agree and
so in the process of of going on a
mission strip listen for the call of God
like okay God do you want me to go and
then once you're there Lord what is it
that you have for me while I am here and
then as you're coming back okay Lord
what is it actually that you want me to
share because I have learned that not
everything we are supposed to share like
some things are just for you and the
Lord and we're not actually supposed to
share those things like Oh Mary
treasured things in her heart yeah like
sometimes the Lord wants the experience
just between you and him that's all it's
meant for um I'm often like
I'm mindful of you know when you're in a
relationship with someone and how when
one person shares you know intimate
details with someone who's not in a
relationship it can actually be quite
hurtful like you've broken trust I think
sometimes with the Lord we have
experiences with the Lord and they are
specifically just for you and the Lord
so I think when it coming back for
missions trip to say okay Lord what do
you want me to share what is beneficial
to your kingdom and not just like the
soft warm fuzzy but how do you want me
to challenge your church mmm how do you
want like what do you want me to how do
you want me to witness my friends and
that was one of the things that we you
know with me I picked you up from the
plane of Nicaragua we actually talked
about what it was that you were going to
share with your family and friends and
colleagues some they were like how was
your trip yeah yeah and what is I think
that was a very beneficial conversation
because then it gives us a chance to
actually dialogue and say okay what is
it that you want me to share one yeah
like what do you want me to share about
this trip that would be honoring and
glorifying to you mm-hmm because it is
easy just you know go from beginning to
end and the good the bad the ugly and
sometimes it's just like okay yeah maybe
I need to learn you know and we talked
about this in a previous show while
guarding our tongue yeah and then I've
even when we've experienced something in
church family we just go a lil a fool
gives vent to his anger that's in
Proverbs so ya head of you I feel fat
but I guess we better wrap it up a gin
sure well thanks again for tuning in and
hope that you'll join us next week and
what do we pray for your age in Iowa
Lord you have called us to be on mission
whether it's in our home in our
community in our city in our country or
in our world you have called us on
mission and are there so many aspects to
it we asked first and foremost father
that you would help us not to be
to ask what mission do you want you to
be on secondly where would you like me
to go thoroughly learn how would you how
would you go about providing for it and
then more help us to trust that you're
going to do all of that you are God and
so father God do you want to surrender
our concepts of missions trips to you
and we ask that you would give us a
heart for the lost wherever they might
be and the courage to share your word
with them whether it's through tenth
making as Paul did or by sharing the
gospel with our words father would you
help us I ask this in the name Jesus
amen I was just reminded when we were
praying how Paul surrendered his life
when Jesus called Saul who then became
all he surrendered his life to him and
he would have an idea of where he should
go and then as you read in the book of
Acts it said while the spirit shut that
door well then the spirit I thought
about going here and then the spirit
shut that door and then he thought about
going here in the spiritual and then he
had this vision of Macedonia of people
saying you know come to us come to us
and if he had gone off on all those
other places he would have been nowhere
near able to go to Macedonia and so when
we talk about surrendering that to the
Lord then it's like trust God it doesn't
do it we just gotta go you just just
kind of doing some things yes and he
takes care of the rest yeah yeah so we
hope that you have enjoyed listening in
today once again you can find all the
information that you need to know about
us on new everyday TV which is yes going
to appear magically at the bottom of the
screen and you can also connect with us
on Facebook
and email and now on stitcher and now on
stitcher and also want to thank category
5 TV for hosting for Robbie Ferguson for
directing producing and editing this
show and then you also took equal
alkaline batteries for powering our
camera and microphones and we hope that
you'll join us next week as we celebrate
fact that God has given us breath once
more new every day have a great week
you
