welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 325 it's Tuesday the
tenth of November 2013 I'm Robbie
Ferguson I'm crystal walls hey welcome
well we have some exciting things on the
show tonight but also exciting things in
the newsroom so more than 2 million
facebook google and yahoo account
passwords haven't posted online bad news
8 global technology firms have called
for a wide scale changes to US
government surveillance the brightest
flashlight app for android has been
tracking your every movement and could
go cover tlie sharing at the data with
third-parties yikes the new USB spec
means it will no longer matter which way
you plug in your USB cable that's
exciting stick around these shows are
coming up later in the show thanks
Krista tonight bill mill creased from
ESET is joining us and we're going to
talk about the state of current security
issues like viruses malware spyware
different all this kind of stuff that
has just infiltrated our internet
connected world also bill has brought
along some wonderful gifts for you so
stick around it is going to be a great
show don't go anywhere this is category
5 technology TV starring Sasha dramatis
Hillary rumble
Kristen wells
your kid
and your host Robbie Ferguson
to secure your company you need
confidence in a trusted solution
technological leadership has made he set
a pioneer of the antivirus industry for
25 years continual research and
development has earned us trust in our
solutions a long record of awards an
independent security testing our proof
of this as are millions of users
worldwide
he said endpoint security solutions for
your business
emerging threats are eliminated by our
unique scanning engine with cloud-based
technology lo system demands ensure fast
and efficient security web control
prevents Network overloads and controls
online activity without an easily
manageable solution you can oversee
security on thousands of endpoints from
a single console flexible easily managed
and cost-effective endpoint security
solutions from ESET proven trusted this
is category 5 technology TV so good to
have you here triple w category five dot
TV is where you'll find us and pleased
to have Bill milk Reese joining us from
ESET tonight I've been trying to get in
here for a while and your schedule has
just been real busy well thank you for
having Robbie it's a pleasure to be here
nice to have you here so first of all
for the viewers who perhaps don't know a
whole lot of the backstory behind he
said could you just summarize for us a
little bit about what who he said is
what he said does kind of our little
history a little profile there a little
bit okay let's see what I can do so each
set of those who are familiar with ESET
he said spin out for about 25 years now
headquartered world headquarters is in
bratislava slovakia and we've got over
in over 180 countries worldwide over 100
million users and what we do is we're
antivirus anti-malware company and we
are in the business of protecting
people's laptops from all these nasty
things we see out and out in out in the
wild these days from banking trojans to
botnet activities and just really really
nasty stuff the landscape of viruses has
changed a lot in the past 25 years
that's for sure it has it has I started
out sorry go ahead and no I you started
out and started out viruses we're just
really all about nuisance just putting
some kind of a message on your laptop or
your notebook and now it's all about its
exploiting financial vulnerabilities and
selling you know your stolen credentials
online I mean so there's a lot to risk
these days crystal was mentioning at the
top of the show that that there have
been
Facebook exploits and millions of
passwords that are out there now yeah
weapon it just makes you wake up and
think okay well how does social media
play in all of a sudden to antivirus
yeah social media is is such a new thing
for so many people and one thing about
social media people don't always realize
not just people trying to hack into your
account like this most recent thing with
Facebook is also people are aware of the
privacy policies when you're looking at
Facebook or LinkedIn and better than
half of the people that we've surveyed
have never even read their online there
are social media privacy policies not
really even aware what's being shared
out there scary fact really you know
have new and passwords must be a big
thing as well because if people are
having these things hacked like are we
talking keyloggers like what is what's
able to get that information well is you
know people just don't use smart
passwords and really it's it's not just
about having a good you know bulletproof
antivirus product on your on your laptop
for your computer that's about being
smart it's about using smart passwords
it's about not using very obvious you
know your name and your birthday for
example so it's really about being smart
and change them a regular basis and most
people have fewer than seven passwords I
believe that's what the I could not be
correct and yet we probably use a
hundred different websites we're using
the same password on all of those all
those so somebody exploits if say
Facebook and gets my password now all of
a sudden they've got access probably to
Twitter right everything else that uses
that same password maybe even my online
banking precisely and once once they can
get your online credentials if if if you
happen to actually have your credentials
compromised there's million different
ways of actually getting your your
financial information stolen it's not
just somebody hacking into your account
but it's also about being safe during
say a public Wi-Fi for example sure a
lot of people don't realize and this was
news to me when I first heard about it
is when you go and just say a coffee
shop somewhere and you'll actually see
a you know the the free Wi-Fi come up on
your list yeah that works is anything
really free yeah realistically it is but
whose yes thing who's sniffing those
passwords is you type them in for sure
right for sure the so whose e sets
customer I mean you have products that
span not just our you know home users
sitting at home with a Windows computer
yeah you also have products of course to
protect mac and linux as well as
business corporate environments so who
really is is using your software all
manner of companies robbie were
everything from a small business all the
way up to enterprise companies we are in
many different vertical markets it were
heavily into health care education
finance government one of the things
that we really like to talk a lot about
to particularly some of these vertical
markets that he sets into for example
like talking about health care you know
in the US we have HIPAA and we have for
education market we have things like
FERPA and the child protection internet
act things like that where schools have
to have some kind of reasonable policy
in place for protecting what filtering
out on wanted website okay yeah then
she'll check the kids from seeing stuff
that they shouldn't kind of thing
exactly so we we protect those markets
by up i again by our to class of
products we have we've got ESET internet
antivirus and then we have a product
called internet security which is
including things like the firewall the
web content filtering and the device
control and things like that the spam
the spam controls ma'am filtering right
how has the cloud played into antivirus
especially with ESET thinking about your
threats sent services and right and how
and the cloud being this generalization
of basically the the modern Internet
where we're so interconnected it's
basically like a supercomputer yeah so
we're able to tap into the resources of
every computer that's connected to the
Internet so as far as my antivirus goes
when I'm running ESET product how does
that sure cloud so to speak how does
that infrastructure affect me okay yeah
so cloud cloud powered scanning or if
you want to maybe refer to it but so the
way it works with
when I talk about security too it's not
just how good your various components of
antivirus are Ravi but its its many
different components which make a good
idea fire so least it has something
called live grid which is what we're
talking about with cloud browser
scanning live grid is really really kind
of links into our threat sense net
advance early warning system which is
really a collection of all ESET users
who submit data on all suspicious files
that could potentially be a virus all
their information is assembled into our
antivirus research lab so we can be more
intelligent make our products better you
know we get those samples in and it's
not just the malicious files it's also
the save files as well so when our
product starts to go in scanning your
computer what it's going to do is
through our threat sense technology we
have whitelisted files we have
blacklisted files so when a user starts
to scan their computer those files are
actually matched up to to this to the
threats ascension threat sense engine
and if it's a waste lifted file we say
we won't going to scan that as a certain
file we're never going to hashtag is
never scanned again and this way you're
not scanning your whole computer every
single time you do a scan so it's just
five so shun see I take it you mentioned
hashtagging the file that we're not
actually transferring private data te
sets servers in such a way that that
you're scanning but actually comparing
md5 sums or something along those lines
so yeah don't think along those lines
exact very technical there's that local
if I can summarize a little bit how I
picture this and you can correct me if
I'm wrong bill but just for the viewers
who are okay well what does this
actually mean yeah so if my computer
scans a file and says oh this is this is
definitely virus infected it can take an
md5 sum of that say as an example which
is a code that tells any basically
compares that file to any file without
revealing anything about the file other
than the checksum so if i now have that
checksum on a server and my computer
connects out to that and says all that
check some matches my computer doesn't
even have to scan
that file it already knows that it's
blacklisted correct before it even scans
it so it can stop it because somebody
else somewhere else in the world had
that file got that checksum and that
information got uploaded to the server
and said blacklist absolutely yeah okay
as exactly that that must affect the
performance of the antivirus product as
well because my computer's not having to
arista cailli go in and decode all of
the every file basically that I open on
my computer right because it not only do
you want great antivirus protection we
all want to make sure we capture all the
in the wild viruses but you also do want
to be sitting there and one of the great
things about the ESET products is why
are doing the full system scan you
should be able to open up multiple web
pages do your normal work without having
to be bogged down so that's the worst
thing because that other people are
gonna stop using antivirus if it's
something's gonna interfere with their
everyday so you're bang on there with
the whole assessed in terms of how that
works so it's part of the whole package
Robbie talking about threats thats
engine we're talking about advanced
heuristics which is going after all the
unknown viruses as well right and so I
mean we're getting the content of files
as they come through right yeah so you
know how many new virus samples we see
every single day love to know about up
to 200,000 per day per day I was shocked
when I told that add thousands new
viruses I mean I think that you know we
see that in a year and that's
substantial yeah we know the numbers
time at 200,000 in a day in a day yeah
that's what who's making this and why
why are people making so many viruses
like they're not all crypto lockers and
viruses that are trying to get your
money off your credit card like what's
the what's the purpose in all these
viruses well the purpose is money I mean
when you I do I make money off of this
bill if you it well you're asking me
these 200,000 viruses I mean there's got
to be some kind of motivation yeah for
the program and this is and I ask this
because this is a question that I get
all the time well who's making at them
and why that's the motivation of the
hacker who's creating these viruses and
there's several motivations and there's
so many different ways of actually using
a hack device I mean that we've
identified a tea set over 36 different
ways you can actually use a compromised
computer but one of the most obvious way
these financial gains so if you're
actually able to steal somebody's
financial information they're their
credit card location so you can actually
go online is actually online auction
sites or websites for selling no way oh
come on personal data personal data
Tennessee a whole black market for it
Tennessee Frank there was also
mentioning in the chatroom phishing
scams and you know how these malicious
programs get into people's computers and
trick them into giving personal
information hijacking browsers making it
look like you're logging into Twitter
but actually you're giving your twitter
credentials to a hacker right so how
does ESET protect me against that kind
of thing well in our anti-phishing
feature in our in our version 7 it
actually will prevent you know will
actually block those emails and prevent
that just stop them from hitting my
inbox right cool for exactly but you
know again as I really we talk about
overall in terms of cyber security it's
not just the product it's the behavior
and we talk about all the time about
best practices and what you have to
click on what you should be clicking on
because you know nothing is a hundred
percent foolproof we all know that I
mean if you click on the wrong thing and
it's or again if you compromise your
password you're logging on to a fake
free Wi-Fi network you're you always had
you were here so it's a cybersecurity
good websites and everything yeah I mean
it's one of the things one of the
website we have which is a great great
blog for all things for all things cyber
securities we live security it's our we
live security com which is our except
for all things relating to cyber
security now there you can see the top
10 banking scams that may be online or
the top five tips to protect yourself at
a public Wi-Fi and the its Sun limit in
terms of how people will try to trick
you so it's a great it's a great it's a
great site to view some really great
information on there as well as a global
virus outbreak map which shows your
worldwide where the virus is already i
was looking at that it's interesting to
see you know canada us are pretty much
on par sure you've got certain areas of
the world where
just read and there you know a twenty
percent of computers are infected that's
an astounding stat yeah and you can see
that on that website we live security
com also makes me think a little bit
something that has always struck me
about ESET is that you're not just
selling antivirus products and we're not
selling antivirus products today or
anything like that but you're you
mentioned right at the top of this
interview that one of the key things is
you just got to be smart and one of the
things that has struck me about he said
is that you're not just providing
antivirus products and anti-phishing
anti-malware anti-spam but you're also
providing education so we live security
calm as one way that you're doing that
how else are you stepping outside of
kind of I would say the what a company
needs to do as an antivirus product
vendor yeah are now becoming also an
education provider and making people
aware of phishing scams and yeah so I
mean obviously mention we live security
there's another non-for-profit
organization that's called securing
securing your ecity org which is a
not-for-profit foundation that it's not
directly connected with ESET but is it
is a organization really teaches safe
cyber awareness and the best practices
and things of that nature so again it's
all about you know education and and how
to stay safe online you know for
families for businesses I mean for our
children all the way up to to use a
palette ease and companies right so so
the company user the corporate user you
offer a full suite of software to
protect the company your endpoint
solutions products have there they're
progressing at a fantastic rate and
we're seeing some really great things
that even even little things that I
didn't know your software did such as
device control and this is something
that really piqued my interest because
we've looked at you know I was even
talking to Robert gorsinski from
Australia who is a viewer of our show
and and looking for some way to disable
USB drives his family computer so that
people can't be plugging in flash drive
sure but still wants to be able to use
this keyboard and mouse sure so to see
that your product is now doing device
level control as well yeah
that's a fantastic feature in there and
seeing some of those things coming in
it's a great feature because I don't
believe this statistic is still it may
not be exactly bang on correct but I
read at one point that about thirty
percent of all malware is introduced
through a removable device even still
yeah I'm not sure how exactly is that
from 25 years ago 25 years ago okay
let's say the last item me or something
like that yeah well floppy drives and
everything used to be the thing but yeah
to think that we're spreading virus is
still through media yeah DISA that
expect it's gonna be a little high but
it's with fairly recent like I said I
mean as far as I mean this everything
you say to me yesterday is going to
change bottom all right let's just cut
again but as far as their mobile media
obviously you can set the products up so
you know every time you put a Romanian
it's going to scan it you know yeah or
it's purely user-driven they could set
those options on and we also want to
protect our friends and family as well
so you say that that's astounding to me
to think that thirty percent are still
being transferred to buy that medium
yeah and and we think oh well that
computer downstairs is not connected to
the internet so i don't need antivirus
on it well guess what yeah you're
transferring this thing you know through
USB or whatever sure and what you know
you're talking about not just a
removable media Robbie but also a big a
big thing we talking about also is BYOD
and you know as far as how many
companies are going to have a set
security policy for their personal
device coming into work and what's the
what's the virus infection or malware
infection from those kind of devices I
mean what's that risk like yeah so years
ago we didn't have two companies have to
worry about having a BYOD policy because
nobody brought their right BYOD of
course for those who are wondering is
bring your own device so if I bring my
cell phone in and plug it into my
computer to charge it it's connected now
as an external hard drive and suddenly
can be infecting or spreading malware or
whatever to that Network if I don't have
a policy in place cisely outs yeah
frightening stuff but it's frightening
he said early on the forefront and and
really doing well you mentioned in the
wild viruses and that's something that I
did want to raise because
virus bulletin has constantly
continually found ESET to be a front
contender when it comes to in the wild
viruses as far as statistics go from
third parties and so I'm not asking for
you know II set to you know say oh yeah
we're great but yeah really that what it
really boils down to is the third party
statistics the third-party analysis is
analysis analyses analyses now where
because they're going to tell me in the
chat room hey you said well correct you
right yeah it really boils down to the
third parties who test all the different
products that are available out there
how is it ranked okay well you mentioned
a virus below 100 believe so in terms of
in how how he said rank so virus but 100
award in order to win one those Awards
you have to protect all the viruses in
the sample while having no false
positives the last time we updated i
believe east it had 180 vb 100 awards
which is an astounding number and again
that's extremely high yeah you have to
detect all the viruses in the sample i
know false positives because false
positives are also extremely important
too because you're not going to want to
use your if you're always getting red
flagged but there are many third-party
independent third-party testing that
comparison so you're talking about you
want to compare a navy you want to look
at the obviously protection is first and
foremost sure we also also want to talk
about you know how fast does it take to
scan and what's the footprint like one
thing about ESET and our products we're
very very proud of is the light
footprint you know one we're one of the
lightest footprints out there in the
industry so we're not bloatware we're
not going to slow your computer down so
people don't use the product so that's
right that's quickly and also should be
noted along those along that vein is
that we're not bombarded with these
pop-ups that some other products yeah
bombard you is like literally I was
servicing a computer that had another
competing product will say sure and
continually just pop up pop up okay okay
delete delete quarantine quarantine yeah
yeah I had to click everything and the
ESET does not help me like that I love
that about it so yeah
so where can we find just before we wrap
up the interview where can we find more
information about ESET the software
where can I get this product for my
business for my home computers okay well
obviously as far as getting more
information you can always visit the
website that's ESET ESET com that's
obviously going to get all the
information on our business products as
well as our consumer products there's
Mary different choices right there but
obviously if you're if you're a consumer
all the information will be listed there
and obviously as a variety of
information listed online and the
business products you can you can you
can download a trial as well try it out
so it's all about any if you want a
really kind of truly idea what the
products like give it a try remove your
old antivirus put this in see how it
runs make sure you move the old
antivirus because yes it's an important
move they do not play well together you
can't have too many viruses on your
computer going to fight they're gonna
get quarantines are going to get out
other yeah so but they could get more
information off of our website again I
encourage everybody that then visited we
live securely calm it's it's it's not
just about ESET is it's a great site for
just cyber security cyber awareness lots
of great content on there in terms of
just tips and tricks and we're all about
education here too and for linux users
and mac users education is very
important as well because we may not be
as susceptible as a Windows users say to
viruses right at this point but they're
still phishing scams they're still right
things that are getting our passwords
and our banking information by tricking
us and so education is a very you know
that's a key component to our safety as
well so are we ever going to be safe is
there ever going to be a point where
Windows users and Mac users and Linux
users can just sign them totally safe
can I get back to you on that maybe
other 25 years and we'll see how it goes
maybe not for a while it's uh it's it's
like I said it's a jungle out there in
terms of cybercrime and awareness but
we've come a long way I mean I think as
long as we give users of tools and and
educate them and when on Iran our
consumer product there actually is there
is actually cyber train
actually take some little course they're
more education education so that's built
into our endure endure consumer products
so awesome but will ever be totally safe
no I guess that's uh no jury's still out
on that but we'll have to see we have a
short length that goes directly to
purchasing site for you cat five dot TV
/ ESET and we'll also post links for you
every link that has been mentioned
tonight the blog e sets website where
you can order where and get more
information more education as well we'll
post those in the show notes for episode
number 325 bill I promised that the to
the chat room that we would give some of
these away Sheriff Tom tonight we're
going to give one away and you've
actually brought in a nice handful of
prepaid Visa cards like visa gift cards
from ESET so these actually write to us
from ESET and we appreciate that that
viewers appreciate that so draw bot is
entering the chat room right now and
these are your gift card for $25 we're
gonna let that go here we go thank you
very very much bill for your time my
pleasure and they're having their
expense right Thank You Robbie cheers
all right happy holidays you too all
right folks chat room this is for you
I see jot bill 777 good luck everybody
this is for a $25 visa gift card from
ESET thank you Bill rig em tux tech died
bond speeding up here we go we'd love to
send this diya jaye blank tux tech shine
shadow it's too fast I can't keep up
this Kelly and the winner is
dime on congratulations dive on
we will send you a gift card all you
have to do is get into email and email
live at category 5 TV with your mailing
address look at this Oh make shiny nice
nice shiny visa for you just in time so
nice when they're still sparkling I know
hasn't even been activated just activate
it and send it off and yeah yeah yeah
yeah buy some coffee on the way why not
yeah that's a good idea yeah well thank
you to all our viewers to send donations
this week you can still support us
financially at HTTP the cat5 TV / to see
indeed also don't forget to check out
our mobile website it's mcat 5 TV if you
got your mobile device scan that QR code
or just visit them the mobile website as
well mcat 5 TV that's got live streaming
video live streaming audio on demand
video and you can check that out yes and
catagory 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech Ed's here
cat5 TV / tpn and the international
association of international Brook enter
internet broadcasters oh I know there's
two eyes it's a mouthful International
Association of Internet broadcaster
that's close to i get like sorry for
being closed you have a $25 visa ha ha
ha okay well I am pleased that perks
have started going out from our
IndieGoGo campaign exciting so those are
some of you have already received your
perks I know some of you are waiting for
the smile that you purchased so what
does that come by oh I know Oh what do
it smile Thank You Eileen are you
smiling yeah I can do it doc how long
how long was a smile for how long did
they purchase it it was like a hundred
of them bought it my cheeks are gonna
hurt maybe one a minute so we fulfilled
the smiles know you made a smile and
we're gonna smile every time we see our
new studio when it gets built we
appreciate everybody's support also
we've got the the business cards I told
you I
show you these jot check it out
personally autographed these gift these
are our business cards our business
cards are awesome where your bias they
are primo I am a little biased this is
this is the crystal Wells business card
there it is personally autographed by
the crystal oh so worth at least ten
cents on ebay at least mmm so we've got
those for you if if that's your perk
also this is great pulling out the big
guns guys let's see our eight by tens
there you go so these are being shipped
out this week as well and incidentally
Rob Gore has requested that you sign
this for him so I got these Oh fresh
sharpies you know I had to actually
because I did the best I haven't been
signing enough autograph what are you
good signing too many too many yeah so
I've made this black area at the so I
can sign anyway Rob Gore might frame
this I'm expecting he would like a big
chunky ain't mad at saw an old frame so
that's like a cane so she's gonna sign
this for you around all right anywhere
or by me well by you were down on the
black area where Oh what do you want her
to sign round I'm gonna sign down all
right I'm gonna start a trend here we go
is the Sharpie primo primo so these are
going out personally autographed for us
and so if you if you have an
eight-by-ten going your way just note
that those are not printed with the
autographs those are actually being put
on there for ya thanks Krista and we've
got all the other perks are going out as
well we've got a ton of awesome stuff
we've got nettalk duo devices the duo
two is what we're sending you a few if
that was your perk the the nettalk duo
gives you the free phone calling for
north america basically Canada the
United States and also they've got a
brand new website very very impressive
website that really helps you to fire
your phone company its net talk dot CA
and you want to check this out it's a
voice over IP device that turns your
internet connection into a phone jack
and you can make your calls free call
anywhere in Canada the US and you can
send one overseas and you got free
calling over to them overseas net talked
to nett talk mm-hmm fantastic stuff
nettalk dot CA check out their new
website it's really cool stuff sounds
like Christmas present to me sounds like
it yeah alright are we ready for the
news oh not only are we ready I'm even
gonna do it well fantastic all right all
right no pressure guys no pressure the
top stories from the category 5 TV news
room more than 2 million stolen
passwords news for sites such as
Facebook Google and Yahoo and other web
so our services have been posted online
yeah bill and I were talking about this
I know not so I should just pass the Sun
yes well tell you more yeah it is
suspected the data was taken for
computers infected with malicious
software that log key presses it is not
known how old the details are but the
experts warn that even outdated
information posed a risk security
researcher Graham Cluley said we don't
know how many of these details still
work but we know that thirty to forty
percent of people use the same passwords
on different websites that certainly pub
something people should not do make
sense yeah it's not exactly what bill
and I were talking about they're just
using the same password on multiple
websites dangerous stuff when one
website gets compromised and you know we
tend to use the same pass or because we
don't wanna have to features of habit
yeah so I actually generate these crazy
passwords for every website that I go to
whenever they need me to register and we
see it I mean even big companies like
Adobe for example completely compromised
and all their user credentials hey gone
so if you if you went to download and
you had to sign up in order to download
an update for your product and you use
the same password that you're using
somewhere else then you could be in
trouble so change your password engine
up on the hard part's easy oh the
leading global technology firms have
called for wide-scale changes to US
government surveillance Google Apple
Facebook Twitter AOL Microsoft linkedin
and yeah
who have formed an alliance called
reform government surveillance group the
group has written a letter to the US
President President and Congress arguing
that current surveillance practice and
I'm sorry current surveillance practice
undermines the freedom of people it
comes after recent leaks detailed the
extent of surveillance programs the
group said in an open letter published
on their website we understand that
governments have a duty to protect their
citizens but the summer revelations
highlighted the urgent need to reform
government surveillance practices
worldwide Apple Microsoft Yahoo Google
and Facebook have all confirmed they
have compiled complied with orders to
hand over data related to national
security matters to the US authorities
but have been forbidden from saying
exactly how many requests they've
received or details about their scope
the group is calling upon the government
to give companies the rights to provide
details of any such data requests to
their users I think that's good because
I think where it becomes a little bit
scary in a way is companies like Google
who really know a lot about you mm-hmm
and so you know it's the privacy policy
the typical privacy policy is we will
not divulge your information however if
we are legally required to then we will
and that's the basically a nutshell
privacy policy because you know the law
steps in and says you have to we've got
a search warrant or an order here from
the courts that says you have to give us
that information when it comes to a
company like Google they know a lot yes
they've been watching out and practice
which isn't necessarily a bad thing I
mean they serve up the advertising that
pays our bills and it seems to be
relevant to you surfing our website
because they know a little bit about
yeah I don't know that information but
it helps target advertising and things
like that absolutely but so where do you
draw the line nice to see them stepping
forward and doing something about it or
these trying well the effort that counts
the thought yes and they've got such a
cool Alliance name could have thought of
something really more Jedi like like
shield yes so that's taken ah he said oh
no that one's gone
all the good ones are gone just give up
yeah the US Federal Trade Commission has
revealed that tens of millions of
Android users have been deceived by
developer who convert Lee gathered
personal data golden shores technologies
took idea and specific location data
from the millions of you millions using
in its brightest flashlight app the
developer shared the data with ad
networks but do not tell users about
this practice a settlement deals signed
by golden shores tightens up its pot of
privacy policy and demands that the
company changed how it handles data in
particular it must no longer mysteries
oh my goodness no longer misrepresent
how it gathers data and whom it is
shared with and must give consumers
meaningful control over what is done
with the information in addition it must
delete all the data previously gathered
from those who downloaded the flashlight
app wow that's that's a little bit
ominous I mean this is this is the one
that turns on your screen or your flat
would you expect that from a flashlight
into a flashlight yeah everybody
installed it of course it's a flashlight
on your phone why would you not right
but you're walking around with this
flashlight your phone has geolocation
yeah it can tell where you are and
they're tracking that and divulging that
information to third parties so
everywhere that I am they're tracking it
they're saving that data they're sharing
that data along with and I know this
isn't part of the news story but just to
take it a little bit further along with
a privately identifying code for your
phone so they can say oh yeah that was
that phone mm-hmm that's that's really
great area that's a little over the line
they should be shutting them down I
should be get them out of the Android
say noda flashlight apps people get them
out of Google Play turn off your
flashlights get a real one yeah Sumiko
alkalines in it all right the same
flashlights are just not safe and now
for some good news okay USB cable
developers have announced that a
forthcoming version of the connectors
plug 2 will be reversible yay finally I
know no more like
now looking at the ugh why won't it go
in this puts us in competition with Mac
woohoo cuz now we had a cable this gonna
I think was gwg in the chat room who
said it's all it always takes three
times to get your USB right one that
does twice and then a third time which
is it somehow it's true never good the
next room so I can turn it upside down
nice can turn it sideways no no not yet
I can't put it in any way I want no give
it another few years they're gonna
improve it okay Oh what else it means
users at the universal serial bus cables
well no longer have to worry which way
around the part is facing one plug it
into a device the specification is due
to be completed by mid-2014 on the first
product on the market by 2016 so only a
few years to 15 years to get it to it
well you know all the molds and I don't
know I don't pretend to know we gotta
reinvent the wheel just the anticipation
that Universal Serial bus would be two
plus years yeah you know universe employ
right yeah that's gonna take a little
while well hey we look forward to it
thanks for the advance notice Krista Oh
any time yeah talk to me in 2016 what
I'm using on what's the one lakh it's
like the lightning cable or something
like that that you can turn it over and
yeah that's cool yes I'm on it either
way and it's finally the map nothing
will ever kill max we can put in are you
as well cables whichever way we want not
as awesome but can you use them cross
product tablet to computer to phone
can't do that with a man oh you have a
little on that is that the thing on the
iphone 5s i don't know i have an iphone
they don't have any us I'm not offer
like that my tablet has a USB know any
way i can plug in the flash not enough
of robbie takes it microwave what a guy
guys can get the full stories at
category 5 TV / news on the category
five dot TV Newser is researched by roy
w Nash with contributions by our
community of viewers if you guys have a
news story that you think is worthy of
on-air mention make sure to email us at
news room at category 5 TV from the
category 5 TV news room I'm crystal
walls
thanks Krista no problem I don't know if
you caught me on Craig Crossman's
computer America radio show a couple
weeks back but just in case you wanted
to catch the show cat five dot TV /
computer America you can tune in that's
just a hot link direct to the mp3 file i
will let you listen that was fun a
couple weeks back was on international
radio from coast to coast in the united
states it's amazing what what skype can
do so mm-hmm but that was kind of fun
cat5 TV / computer america also can we
say hello to some of our new viewers
that are joining us on our website I'm
sure we can lil Willie hey welcome also
I saw g77 237 which I was trying to
think if that might be leet but what
could it possibly be like good all the
other user names are taken so it's not
Lee but he is in Oman across the sea
from Iran as far as I understand nice to
have you joining us and nice to have you
registered on our website and being a
part of the show well come on betoch ooh
sure betta coo and welcome yeah welcome
also hakimoto o tea how can i get the
hard ones tei Eason listen TV iasin TV
Oh welcome thanks for joining us here at
category five if you like to register
it's free category 5 TV why would you
want to register oh well you get free
stuff no strings no strings attached
just have to put up with this guy once a
week one hour yeah well you can do that
anyway but if you're registered you can
qualify for things such as a free copy
of telestream Wirecast version 5 cool
not only that Patel stream Wirecast
version 5 pro it's worth a thousand
bucks we're giving one away all you have
to do is pop me an email live at
category 5 TV with the subject line I
want Wirecast if you're not sure what
Wirecast is tuned in the last week's
show episode number 324 it's a
broadcasting sweet that will turn your
computer into broadcasting hardware so
you can be sending out a live feed if
you want to do gaming or a television
broadcast or you want to do
you know if churches use this for being
able to stream their sermons live on
Sunday mornings it's great software
we're giving away a free copy worth a
thousand bucks all you got to do is
email me why you category 5 TV but you
got to be registered on our website and
in the body of that email just tell me
you're registered user name that's all
there is to it so if you're not
registered go register and then send me
the email you might win don't why not do
it I think we should get into view a
question just cuz we're pushing the time
envelope and I love receiving your
questions thanks folks for sending them
in nice to see everybody in the chat
room I know I haven't been paying too
much attention to you I tried to give
some shoutouts there rev d jank nice to
see you all right sorry trying to find
an awesome question okay here is one
from they're all awesome the four
thousand news that we're gonna run at a
time and somebody's question isn't gonna
get touched you anything be like uh-huh
not you trying to do my job Robbie okay
do it well here is from michael schultz
he says hi Robbie at least two dollars
from me oh ok thanks for the competition
but I wanted to say I can understand you
want to proceed technically but Oh with
regards to the studio build I got you
I'd like to hear this out yeah ok but
don't forget one thing many people like
me love the show because it is like it
is easy and simple and because it is in
the cellar what the hold is simple well
we are a simple folk here in Canada
Canada because it is in a cellar with
the nice wall and furniture in the
background it feels so cozy and warm
that's my opinion I like it that way
more than with a full-blown virtual
studio but on the other hand better
videos always welcome of course good
luck and thanks for your time and great
shows and your help to the community of
people who love to help and spread the
word of Linux you're a bunch of
wonderful people thanks a lot thanks
Michael I appreciate your comments very
very much and I've been receiving that
actually crystal a fair bit people
saying you know what jobs I love the way
the show is we can move this show as it
is out to the new studio and I know that
you already know but it our cost would
be seventeen thousand five
bucks to do that why do we want to do
that even barring everything else is
because we'd have a soundproof room
which means when the kids are thumping
around they can and it won't matter to
the show because we are in fact you say
we're in the cellar this is actually the
basement of my home and so we lose about
a third of the floor space of our home
it would be really really nice to be
able to move it out and that's part of
it but when you mention also higher
quality we want to get better cameras we
want to get away from using consumer
hardware not for anything like not for
prestige or anything like that but just
so that the show looks as good as it can
because we've been doing this for you
know we're in our seventh season we want
to make it as good as we can we're
always growing we're always expanding
and it's sometimes a slow process but
your donations have been really really
helping to push us forward so we
appreciate that and thank you for your
contribution all right here is / half
question half comment okay from lat
ablative hey uh hello Robbie I recently
found your show and really enjoyed the
format and the tutorials you provided
for linux users I also watch Linda's
Linux action show when I can and on
their most recent show they brought up
an issue on affiliate links and Amazon
terms of service which I thought you
might warn others that produce podcast
about right yeah I saw the link for the
YouTube video is okay you know it's a
link is action show i'll post that in
the show notes for 325 yeah and then
chris's explanation begins at 39 minutes
what happened i believe with linux
action show is that they use affiliate
links from amazon in order to raise a
fair bit of money so if you click that
link just like when i when i say for
example camp 5 TV / ESET they know that
that's come from category 5 because it's
a trackable link and that's part of the
reason that we do it also because it's a
little easier for us to say out loud and
give it to you verbally sometimes
there's a lot of long URLs and we can
shorten them but because they're able to
track that if we're in an affiliation
role we're able to actually receive some
income and in this case amazon basically
said we're not going to pay you what we
technically oh you according to this
line or an affiliate agreement so they
ended up getting
you know hit for losing a lot of money
that they were expecting and when you're
expecting it in a broadcast can be very
very painful because there are real very
very real expenses with doing a show
like this if you read my blog bald nerd
calm you know I sometimes talk about how
I'm tweaking things in order to keep our
expenses down because with 60,000 people
watching a week and with a content
distribution network that is we have
four active cdns just to be able to keep
up with the data throughput the
terabytes of data that's downloaded
every week and and and that's very very
costly so I can feel for them by
tweaking things d mean like only two of
your kids get to eat the food no I try
to keep this and that separate but we
introduced another CDM this week which
I'm quite excited about because we're
basically separating out some of our
data from different servers and breaking
it out into different content
distribution networks and that's going
to make things faster but also helps
alleviate some of the expense by taking
older shows and putting them on slower
networks so if you download a show
that's 100 weeks old because we're at
that point where people will go and
they'll download all 325 episodes well
when that's hosted on s3 going through
cloud front that costs twenty-five cents
an episode for you to download so that
is astoundingly expensive when someone
goes and downloads all of them and lots
of people do so we move off some of
those older episodes on to slower
distribution networks that are a lot
cheaper and so our costs are alleviated
that way so ya can get a lot of good
up-to-date tech advice from episode one
yeah go to our website will warn you
this is very old not nothing here is
worth watching except for nostalgia
that's about it okay and now the
question all right um the question about
something of made covered in a previous
show involves SSE SSD hard drives all
right I run old equipment like a p4 3.2
and I'm thinking about installing an SSD
and really don't know much about
enabling trim an SSD on a p4
can you discuss the issues with trim and
especially with older systems thanks and
great you guys know what I'm talking
about right an SSD on a p4 it's like
mike is it is back here I know if you're
watching backstage passes Pirelli tires
on a Pinto that's chris from isa um i
just read the questions yeah well p4 is
we're talking old age old hardware um
sure you can get more life out of it can
you take it an SSD for real so you're
gonna have to have SATA bus in there
somehow it was probably AI de if it's a
p4 though so anyways if you got it to
work which is possible but your bus is
going to be killer slow because they
didn't have SATA to let alone sata3 back
then and you may not even have SATA one
Krista am i right correct I couldn't
have said it better myself so if you can
plug it in you're not going to get the
speed benefits of an SSD compared to if
you were to plug it into like a slightly
newer computer but regardless ok so the
question about sorry i c'n i have a
ferry by paris I don't know what part of
the question do you have just about how
he's thinking about installing it it
doesn't know about much about enabling
training to be using linux or does he
mention if he's using master windows
nope ok so in that case I don't really
have I don't really know what what i can
tell you ok so if you can get it working
here's the problem a p4 with that was
back in the IDE days they may have had
first gen SATA that's the interface that
you plug your hard drive into so an SSD
looks like this and if i can get this
open there we go anti-static bag that is
SATA that's the interface your old p4
uses what's called ide most likely if it
has SATA it's going to be first gen so
it's going to be 1.5 gigabits a second i
think it was if its second gen it's
going to be three gigabits a second the
modern SSD is meant for 3rd gen SATA
which means
gigabits a second so your old computer
won't be able to get those speeds if you
can get it to go trim what that is is it
basically tells your your hard drive as
you're deleting things it tells the hard
drive that it can actually reallocate
those sectors of the hard drive so if
your if your hard drive supports it with
all which all the new ones do your
operating system you want to set it to
use trims so that it will clear off that
space because eventually what's going to
happen is if it if you don't use trim
your computer's going to get slower just
because it doesn't know that those
deleted file spaces can be reallocated
so it has more trouble moving things
around and and trim just kind of speeds
things up in the long long haul it's
like a garbage collection gets rid of
all the stuff that you've deleted so so
you definitely want to enable that i'll
give you a link for linux because i'm
more of a linux guy myself cat five dot
TV / trim we've sent that before it's on
web update and it's a reasonably new a
bit of information about trim for linux
so if you're using linux that's going to
be very very helpful if not you're going
to want to look into god mode for
windows 7 windows 8 that's the name of
it so do a search for trim godmode
windows and you'll find out more
information about how to get it set up
correctly on a window system and
maximize your the benefits of a
solid-state drive on linux i also tend
to use ram disks for my temp storage so
that it's not tamping swapping and doing
all that stuff on the SSD I want that
stuff to happen in RAM I've got 16 gigs
of ram so I can allocate you know
whatever I can do that that's where if
you only have four gigs of ram your old
p4 probably doesn't have that you're
going to have you're going to lose the
ability to use your swap and your temp
folder as in RAM in a ramdisk because
you don't want those things really
happening on the SSD right all right all
right thanks for the question I hope I'm
helping don't really know though at this
point so let me know
here's a question from JP ax hey JP uh
he says I sent screen loads as you
explained in episode 3 10 or sorry I
setup screen let's but I don't see any
applets I even tried manually add the
pvas but nothing found can you help
really so you set up screen let's if you
followed my tutorial well what distro
are you using would be the first thing
that I would ask screen lets itself
should come with some some pretty
awesome plugins or whatever you call
them widgets I kind of set it and forget
it like you look at my screen there you
go and all of those screen lets are just
there they're still up and running from
when I set them up back on that episode
I guess he says it was 310 so yeah can
you let me know your distro what what's
actually happening I'm going to run
screen lists and you can see that I've
got a ton of stuff there so you telling
me that you're seeing that is blank
because that's the default stuff that I
see when I when I open it up you can
download and install other screen let's
but out of the box you should have a
fair number of of them there's a button
there that says get more screen let's I
would try that website disabled is it
gone I hope not it could be it's getting
to be pretty old software so maybe it's
not maybe you can't download extra ones
anymore but you should get it you should
get the ones that come with it so I
don't let me know um and we'll take a
look I would hope that you've got the
same packages i'm using point linux and
Peter's done a really good job of making
sure the point Linux has some of the
older stuff still functional you know
compiz fusion screen 'let's and some of
the the great stuff that we know and
love about linux but that is probably
you know falling into the hole
deprecation cycle of old software but
he's able to keep this stuff going i'm
using mate with it which is a gnome to
fork and so it really feels like old
school linux but but if you're using a
different distro and they've already
deprecated something that i'm afraid it
may be gone
thanks for well Vicki here is a question
from d man 810 hey I have a question
eventually oh boy good first I'm back in
we get around to it so what I have set
up I'll have a night actually I have a
Raspberry Pi running rasping yes
debian-based the P or pi is set up with
a relay board to control of Christmas
lights I haven't working great plays mi
di files of Christmas songs that's
awesome cool love it very festive e now
for the actual question how can I make a
webpage to pick a mi di file then play
it right now I use the CLI to execute
the following command play mi di dash
p14 song damn it I have all the songs in
a folder I just want to be able to play
a song or pick a song and play it
another feature might be to query a
bunch of songs and have them play one at
a time but provide enough info he's also
running point linux as his OS i would
like to use a web page though sure yeah
of course that you'd want something
that's going to be running are you going
to run it on the Raspberry Pi now I
don't have time tonight Dennis to do
this for you we've got about three
minutes left to the show I love the idea
though I am so going to do this for you
you know what we'll do is episode number
326 we're going to take a look at this
for you and we're going to use tools
such as of functions in PHP read der is
a function which is going to allow us to
read the directory contents of all your
MIG files and M ID I you know as musical
instrument digital interface gosh so
when you sit down at a piano and play it
out and it's recording to midi it's
basically storing the musical score of
what you play so when he says he's got
MIDI files it's actual music scores that
can then be transformed into audible
music through FM trend transcoders or
FM synthesis or possibly some other
software in this case it sounds like FM
synthesis so what we'll do is we'll
create a PHP script that allows you to
connect via your browser choose the song
from read dirt will output as an eruv
from an array to say a select list or
something like that love to do that for
you that will happen on episode 3 26 can
I do that yeah that sounds exciting it's
gonna be fun so does this mean his
lights like when it plays jingle balls
election we're really obnoxious like
that but one way or another siberian
orchestra gist of it though right as the
lights are playing to the beat of the
music right i think so it's pretty cool
and at the very least it's playing music
while the lights flicker but it sounds
like I mean why would you go to all the
effort I mean you could when you can
just take out one bulb and put in the
one with the little red but they look
like yeah and they'll all blink I think
he's gone a little bit further by
hooking up a raspberry pi huh so I think
it probably has I'm kind of yes mm-hmm
it's a computer like this I know but
they're ridiculous means I know after a
nice silly I can't help it it's nice and
open source and we just we've run out of
names so it's gonna be food based ice
cream sandwich and raspberry pi mm-hmm
that sounds cool we're gonna do that
Dennis don't miss next week's show we're
gonna learn how to control yup a midi
player from our web browser I need to
know Dennis are you going to be running
this on a lamp stack on the Raspberry Pi
itself or is the Raspberry Pi only the
lighting controller and it's moving to
the music based on audio input and
you're using
your computer to trigger so I just need
to know that next week of course we've
got more visa gift cards to give away
don't miss it those come to us from ESET
and you can find out more about them by
going to directly to their website ESET
com or through our link cat5 TV / ESET
we encourage you to use that link if
you're in Canada or the US and for this
week that's all the time that we've got
Kristen always good to see you I know
I'll try come on more than like once
every it's been a while I aren't 56
super busy this girl doing websites and
stuff and graphics is a pretty stuff
making the world business cards all
these great business cards look at those
Sasha said she put it through the wash
and it was still good like that's how
good these business cards are what other
business cards they turn in like this
everyone's gonna be trying it now
they're gonna do not log raft okay not
with the autographed ones it's that may
come off so have a great week everybody
thanks for being here tonight and thanks
also to our guest Phil no priest from
ESET i'll check them out have a great
night but we hope you enjoy the show
category 5 TV broadcasts live from
Barrie Ontario Canada every tuesday at
seven pm eastern if you're watching this
on demand or through cable TV check out
the local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada miss
next time thanks for tuning in
