welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 424 for Tuesday the third
of November 2015 so nice to have you
here my name is Robbie and tonight we're
giving you what you want what you need
we're giving you more Linux tonight
we're going to look at an arc
distribution that is in fact easy to
install and a lot of fun to use you want
to see this plus we're going to play
around with an oldie but a goodie of
command line tools for Linux that also
works on Windows and Mac and that's
going to allow you to sync your
documents between systems so that you
can edit them well on the road and then
when you get home you connect to your
network and it automatically syncs up
all of your copies so stick around we're
going to be covering all that in just a
little bit Jeff Weston back with me in
studio tonight Jeff nice to see you
thanks for having me back yeah good to
see ya let's see what do you got coming
up in the news tonight well here's us
coming up on category 5 TV news room
amazon and ebay could be liable for
billions of pounds of unpaid sales tax
in the UK if they fail to properly
investigate traders using their sites to
escape sales tax as well lithium-ion
batteries are one step closer to
production and yamaha motors has
revealed its developing a robot designed
to ride any racing motor bike at high
speeds also Google's blown base balloon
based internet service is on course to
form a ring or over part of the world
next year and gamers who purchase batman
arkham knight for the pc are being
granted full refunds after warner
brothers suggests that problems that
have plagued the game since its release
are not fixable and we thought we had
big star trek news before but now we
have even bigger star trek News the
biggest ever in
stick around the full details are coming
up later in the show this is category 5
technology TV starring
Sasha tomatoes
Guillory rumble
and your host Ravi Ferguson
this is category 5 technology TV i'm
your host Ravi Ferguson and I'm Jeff
Weston Jeff what you noticed I've
noticed that you appear to have got a
green shirt on it's like I've been
working out yeah I've been working out
folks you lost weight so what's going on
well I've been really watching what I've
been eating okay I've been drinking more
water thanks to Allah okay I'm up to two
liters a day now well done that's pretty
cool that's right uh really it boils
down to just not eating when I'm not
hungry you know that when you get home
from work and you know tuesday night is
a perfect example i work from like 7am
to let's say we finish the show and i
have about three hours post production
so nearly midnight right and you'd like
to snack during those times they didn't
realize oh I'm actually snacking when
I'm not really that hungry I'm just kind
of you know doing that never happens
never happens right so I put on some
over the past while i'm going to show
you my belt we're looking at I lost and
I've lost some okay so check it out okay
so this is my old belt okay that's where
I was yep you can see the indent in the
belt that's where i was i was actually
here okay okay now here's the problem
i'm on the lat I i'm there i am on the
last belt polls yes and I'm stuck I
can't go any further well you could just
punch new hole I could I lightly punch
new holes and go further all the way to
like one more beyond but what's been
real pain during this process has been
when I get in between okay right so you
can move it back now are you gonna take
your belt off yeah oh boy ok so that's
the problem i was i was into and
seriously like where was I okay let's
put it back to where I was at one point
I was there so you've lost it what a
good 45 inches oh yeah Oh easily yeah so
that's where I was okay then I worked my
way to here and that's where i stayed
for quite some time you can see by the
by the strained indent in the belt yes
so reason I wanted to show you this I
want to show you this bad boy this is
kind of my salvation through that hole
in between when you're in between ok it
out sizes this you can pick up a cap
five dot TV / Sammy and what you see is
that there are no belt holes okay so how
does it work so on the back they're all
the matches positions okay so when you
put this on oh dude that's cool it
automatically sizes itself so here we go
cat five dot TV / Sammy you got to pick
one of these up just do a quick search
on that site for ratchet belt just like
it sounds so see how much better this is
for me now Nate UK was wondering is it a
linux belt it is a linux we can say that
yeah all right that way even my pants
these pants were tight on me so I'm
pretty proud so here we go so this is
the the moment of truth this is what we
all want is a proper fitting belt there
you go perfect fit now how does a deal
when you accidentally snack too much and
you put some extra pressure just the
ratchets pop also it's your cyclic and
release oh man but I'm gonna make a
suggestion here folks pry it in your
hands first cuz the first time I put it
on I didn't know how to get it off
hahahahaha nice so there it is so as you
get in between sizes there's no such
thing as between sizes anymore so you've
got this perfect fit nice stylish buckle
you're good to go and it's cheap cuz
this from cap five dot TV / Sammy do a
search for ratchet belt and you two will
be as comfortable as me I like that keep
up the good work it's less belt thanks
man cool well we have a ton of stuff for
you tonight yes what's say before we get
into it we talked a little bit we've got
a couple of things to talk about okay I
noticed somebody in the chat room saying
we're Sasha yes where's Sasha yep sasha
is still with us so I'm just going to
start
off with that because I don't want you
to get too worried however Sasha did
also now a backup we're all volunteers
here and it's a huge commitment to be
involved in category 5 TV Sasha
unfortunately did have to take a job
that works her on Tuesdays ah so it's a
sudden thing we didn't really see this
coming and we're trying to work out ways
to make it work but as it is right now
she's she's working a shift right at
this very moment so today I started
reading lesson so I'm gonna have to
figure out how to work the news gonna
have to figure it out folks sure how to
work the teleprompter that's right um so
you know we're thinking of Sasha she
wanted me to extend that she absolutely
this has been a horrible thing for her
like she's been really stressing over it
i think sasha has been here every single
Tuesday for as long forever it feels
like season eight all the way through
and you know now it's all of a sudden
she's got to work so yeah needless to
say there's you know a couple things
that we could do and we're gonna we're
going to talk about that over the next
you know couple of weeks as we kind of
try to figure out how we can keep Sasha
on the air when she's working well rev
do you do Genk is suggesting a new night
whatever night the Sasha's here I've
been whatever is available all in favor
say aye we had that thought to be
straight up honest you know could we
after almost nine years of broadcasting
switch category five to a different
night and so you know let us know what
you think of that idea I think it would
be very challenging absolutely peep for
so many years now people's gotten used
to tuesday night it's kind of like a
religious practice almost a little bit
the other thing is nobody ever schedules
anything on tuesdays that's true and if
we moved it to Monday's which might work
for example then anytime there's a
holiday monday and you're a way with
family and stuff here you know I
thinking of us working in the studio
it'd be really really tough for us to
have to come in on our holiday monday
and work that day
you don't see all the post process that
go or the pre process that goes into the
show but we're here I start working on
category 5 3 days in advance writing the
news everything and then we're here
about four hours before the show
actually goes live on a Tuesday to get
everything set up so and then all the
post process as well so there are
different things but let us know
community what you think would be a good
option good way to do it hashtag we miss
Sasha it is time to show category 5 some
love folks we appreciate all of our
viewers from all around the world it has
been an amazing season for us as far as
growth we have been watching the numbers
and seeing going from a hundred and
twenty thousand viewers a week and
thinking how can we that's amazing to
250,000 and saying whoa a quarter of a
million views a week because you're such
a good-looking guy has nothing to do and
all of a sudden Sacha's now we're
getting into its ashes away this week
the it's going to drop yep gonna drop
that's Rob we're over 500,000 views a
week right now that's amazing it's
amazing and we are all volunteers as you
know we fund this from a very minimal
amount of advertising and viewer support
and your viewer contributions really
help to sustain us absolutely what I
would love to have happen and I know
that we've got a huge viewer base and
you're watching this right now and maybe
have been watching for some time maybe
you're new here if you could contribute
25 cents per episode that's it 25 cents
what an amazing difference that would
make for category five huge we'd be able
to call up sash and say you know what
will pay you double whatever they're
paying you will pay you double well it's
already been mentioned Sasha patreon
yeah there's Sasha pay if you could go
to category go to patreon.com/scishow on
profile and what you can do is you can
set up so that you're actually
contributing 25 cents per show which is
awesome so
basically once a week you a quarter
right so you think about okay well how
does that work as far as you know fees
and everything goes because you don't
want 25 cents coming off of a credit
card so what happens is it actually
accumulates for a monthly fee so if we
do four episodes that month you'll get a
dollar off of your credit card right at
the beginning of the following month
which a so easy to do it's so easy and
when you think about the number of
viewers that astounds you okay like
amazing but I don't want you to think
about the number of viewers at the
moment I want you just think about you
and the fact that you personally could
give 25 cents per episode and that's
really all that we ask there are those
of you who are already contributing more
than that and that makes this a
significant difference and you know
don't don't think oh well I only have to
do 25 cents so I'll bring down my
contribution if you can continue on
where you're at it's making a huge
difference if you can give 25 cents go
to patreon.com/scishow I and I need we
need to be able to sustain this thing we
want to keep it free absolutely and by
free i mean contributing 25 cents an
episode we're not forcing you to do it I
don't want to charge people for it we
want to do this for free and that
includes not just category 5 technology
TV but new every day the show show
nature sounds of Ontario Canada the
newsroom hopefully with Sasha der made
us we work it out and everything else
that we do here at category 5 so all
that's provided for you so I'm gonna
bring up my computer here and go to
patreon.com/scishow that I'm signed out
so that I see it as you see I yes I am
okay that's great so here on that
website this is a kind of like a
crowdfunding unique way of doing it just
type in category 5 in your search
and you'll see the category 5 TV network
there that's us see my gorgeous bald
head there he is so all you have to do
see where it says give one dollar in
episode we're not even asking for that
type in 0.25 that's all you need to do
and then become a patron that's going to
make a substantial substantial
difference it's going to help us to
sustain this thing now to to thank you
the first 100 contributors at least the
25-cent level including all those who
are already contributing are now
eligible for a draw we're going to hold
a draw for teeny drones and you've seen
these things okay they're awesome you've
seen them on the show we've got racing
packs and so what that is is basically
two drones so you and I could go out we
could race no I haven't the field and we
can have a really good time flying teeny
drums or if you know if you want to you
can just charge one while you're flying
the other one and then switch back and
forth in this unlimited flight time
basically because it flies for just as
long as it takes to charge so we're
actually going to draw for the first 100
contributors you're going to be
qualified for that draw there are other
perks there you can read all about them
on patreon find out how you can support
us what what it is that we do and we
extend a huge amount of thanks to
everyone for contributing to this and
helping out the show if you don't want
to participate via patreon please go to
donate category 5 TV which is a little
different because it uses paypal you can
still subscribe to like monthly
contributions and things like that but
factor in okay well they do they do for
maybe five episodes of category 5 tech
TV per month so you know how much do I
want to give for that keeping in mind if
you enjoy new every day that's another
weekly show that we produce here at
category five if you can you know think
about the the shows that you enjoy and
appreciate and and that will carry us
through I'm excited about 2016 and what
we're going to see happen oh man 2016 I
wasn't even thinking about that it's
coming that's close Siri thought but
thank you everybody for hearing me out
hope I haven't lost you I hope that you
are in the mood to support us and
I appreciate each and every one of you
very very much if you're not sure how
you can support us pop me an email live
at category five dot TV and and we'll
see what we can figure out and I thank
you excellent so enjoy the show and and
enjoy the whole network and what we do
here it is a lot of fun for us Braden is
behind camera tonight and he's not in
yeah this is a great time and it's such
a thrill to be able to bring category 5
and our network of shows to you every
single week and we explan to expand oh
sure the drone zone is coming I like it
drones over to me a blast I wasn't in
the Dominican last week and I was
chatting with one of the guys there
about drones I was talking about the
drone zone as talking about the teeny
drones and the Cena and all that and he
was like they feel did I presume you
left your teeny drone at home I did
leave my teenager do you feel like you
were wanting to fly it I'm not gonna lie
I did think about it a few time and then
did you realize that hey this little
thing I could have taken it out of the
limited edition case and put it in like
my pocket I didn't actually think about
kind of still wouldn't carry on but that
would have been a lot of it and it would
have worked would have been great yeah
what were you doing in Dominican that
sounds actually it was uh it was a bit
of a humanitarian trip we were building
some homes for community in the
Dominican just outside little city of
nog whaz is about 35 families or so that
currently have liked in houses or bamboo
stick houses so hurricane blows in it's
all gone so for about twelve thousand
dollars you can build a cinderblock home
that will last them literally three
generations so so I was down there with
a group of eight or nine people and we
helped complete two homes that's
fantastic man it was a lot of fun a lot
of fun I know we have viewers there as
well shouts out to you you could maybe
you saw Jeff well while he was there
maybe who knows a it's possible isn't it
unreal to think you were in Dominican
Republican that you could have seen some
viewers because there's that is entirely
possible and one thing that was really
interesting because the communities are
so spread out nobody has home phones
they all have cell phones like everybody
had a cell phone
so like there's people that are
literally on their cell phone with
unlimited internet yeah they could be
watching this from their phone in their
little tin hut which is kind of kind of
weird wild but it but very nice while
yeah huh so well that's cool man welcome
back well thank you you had a good trip
yeah it was it was a great ship but no
longer talking about brick homes what do
we got with garage doors I've always
thought it wouldn't be fun to do
something different and there are
regulations that stop us from doing that
here you know from house to house
they've got to be fairly uniform and
everything that yes you know you can't
just go all out and crazy with your your
garage door but there are places in the
world that get away with it and how much
fun is it to you know do stuff such as
this one that John Skerritt turned his
garage door into this brilliant
advertisement catchy piece of art as
well suppose the wall needed better
coating but he's actually turned it into
a wall cannot be found error message
what's the next one here Jeff this is
kind of cool okay this one they they
actually you can't see it but they at
the bottom here that's actually the
garage and it opens up into palo no way
apartment yeah so the the landlord had
done it to kind of get around
regulations and hide the fact that
there's an apartment down there so a
little bit of you know maybe that's not
the best motivation but you gotta admit
it's pretty cool in the final product
that's awesome you wouldn't even know
this one looks dangerous to me Jeff hey
so it's an actual deckle Wow but it
looks so real i could see somebody
easily driving into that yeah it does
it's a sticker kind of like our TARDIS
door right just another sticker here
just well that's nice it's pretty cool
another creative illusion they're
definitely not the realism of the last
one but that's still pretty cool this
one they decided to go with a graffiti
theme and this one someone else seems to
have decided that it would look nice
with some graffiti this one here really
helps you to you know hide the fact that
you're driving a family minivan
Wow ok that one's fun isn't that crazy I
don't know how they get out but hey
there you go there's the Dominican door
right there that just takes you there
just takes you there and then you'll
walk right into it and snuck your face
just to remind you hey you know just
chill man just chill my babies that's
good that's fun I guess it would have to
work with where you're sitting on your
bike that's true yeah some of these just
look so real it's incredible to think
that that's a deckle that's really that
doesn't wear a pain like could someone
paint that good huh achel shoe could do
that but how unreal is that with
dimension this one's not anything
foelike that but it's pretty neat that
the the driveway basically lifts up to
open oh is that what it is so lifts up
with hydraulics to allow the the cars to
park underneath and then lowers them
back down into the ground oh that's fun
I like that whoa okay and finally this
one this house the ladies spent about 35
years just to make her house seem like
it's very outdoorsy she did a lot of
stuff the interiors really cool but
check out the painting on the garage
door as well add to the function to it
these are some fun kinds of you know
images that you can find the website
that we got those from our light lighter
side of real estate com and it's a fun
site but they have stuff like that you
can actually look into some of these
homes and find out a little bit more
information about them that's neat
thought we share that with you lots of
fun neat how I how creative some people
are I like the diver ceases to amaze me
just stick it up yes absolutely alright
tonight we're looking at a linux
distribution that is based on arc and
maybe we can touch on a viewer question
that you're in just this week and we
love receiving your viewer questions
live at category fun
dot TV is where you want to email us and
this one came in to us this week yeah it
did it came from brother Wilbur and he
says thank you robbie and staff for your
service of computer help tech relief i
need free i need a free command list and
keyboard shortcuts to help me be more
productive I've wore out my laptop hard
drive installing distros I just want one
light enough to run boosting my
productivity simplicity is my motto I've
been looking towards rolling release
because they are current they are
current applications no more upgrading I
think Ark sounds good but I'm not ready
for though I did try Manjaro didn't try
Manjaro at it took some adjusting to
their style of computing any tips would
be helpful can you do remote help on
Linux yeah okay so let's hit that one
real quick yeah we do use teamviewer
okay as a you know operating as a kind
of a non-profit sort of thing we use it
under the personal use license and and
so you can use that to allow us to
connect in a lot of viewers don't
usually take advantage of that and it is
sometimes a little bit complex to get it
set up but if you're familiar with it
yeah we can use teamviewer to get in to
answer your question about linux and
using our clinics now arc is bleeding
edge and fast and compiles on your
hardware and it's just a dream to use
but its biggest I guess you'd say
downfall but the toughest thing with it
is you know for novice and intermediate
Linux users is it's really a challenge
to install okay so to get it on your
heart where is is pretty challenging so
tonight I wanted to look at a district
called and tear goes it's based on our
clinics but the Installer the process to
install is fantastically easy he's good
yeah I mean your arc is notorious for
being difficult now the website for aunt
Argos which during the live show tonight
unfortunately seems to they seem to be
under maintenance but it is an tear goes
calm and rather than trying to make his
spell that out I'm going to zoom in on
my screen here so that you can see
and tear goes calm what I've had to do
just because they're under maintenance
tonight is use the the trustee web cache
from google and that seems to have let
me in so that's just fine so thankfully
we're still able to show you basically
through their website how to get it once
they're back online it won't be a
problem and you'll be able to grab it
directly off of their site okay so and
tear goes calm click on download and now
we're back to being outside of the cash
let's see if I can get back to the cash
way to do that is go to Google punch it
in pull down and go cached and there we
go so this is the cached version of
their download page so scrolling down we
see 64-bit or 32-bit now the difference
basically is I mean the modern computer
is going to be 64 bit anything that's
been made any time recently we write 64
bit older systems are 32-bit back in the
day these days fortunately we've got
most CPUs are going to be 64 bit anyways
that gives you the ability to use more
than four gigs of ram so if you want to
throw 12 gigs at your system 16 gigs go
for it I like having 16 gigs and you
definitely if you're playing the the
batman game you'll need at least that or
can you play the batman game we'll find
out later so within tear go so you just
drag so grab it off of their website
alright so we're going to download the
iso which I've already done because I
like to be prepared for things like
unexpected maintenance that's right so
we'll have a talk with the entire ghost
folks after the show it's all good
though so we're prepared alright so I've
got the iso and I've booted up from the
USB flash key which I've created using
the instructions on their website nice
and easy they've got the directions
there so we're going to start and tear
goes live that's the first thing I want
to do okay and this is going to show us
I want to show you how the entire ghost
installer operates how easy it is for us
to to get it up and running unless I get
illegal instruction oh no it is booting
here we go
yeah it's going to let us in so just
let's let that boot this is category 5
technology TV you'll find our website at
triple w category five dot TV tonight
we're looking at an arc based distro
this will make alpat copy yeah back to
Linux look at that I mean al Peck sent
us an email and said we want more Linux
that's my paraphrase we listen here and
we listen I'll pack we love you and we
love having you as a part of our
community and you know we try to jump
from topic to topic to keep it kind of
eclectic yep you know and that's that's
all part of it but linux is at the core
of everything that we do as you know and
and we love Linux and we're happy to
dive into it black screen of death I've
got a mouse cursor here almost there
we're booting up to the live CD or the
live flash drive for ant ergo switch is
freely available it's linux it's based
on arc and it includes an installer so
that we can get this into our system
nice and easily I have run this now
we've got this running on beccas
computer at home okay we've got this
running on the netbook which was so
graciously donated to category 5 for the
studio here oh nice by Brett who sent
that in so that we'd have a chat room
system for people to use when they're
sitting in the audience and things like
that so tallies their mangle Fox using
the netbook tonight and it has an tear
goes on it as well right because I've
tried all different distros and like you
I'm looking for one that I really like
and tear goes is bleeding edge arc is
bleeding edge so you get the latest
packages I'm a big Debian fan so it's
hard for me to step into something
that's not Debian derivative but I do
love the bleeding edge nature of the the
entire goes distro I mean the
repositories are up to date plain and
simple now for anybody who's not
entirely clear on all the variations of
Lennox and you know we just had this
question asked in the the chat room by
main geek what's the difference between
arc and say you bun 24 anybody does well
Linux is a kernel so it was created and
is created by a group of people
with Lena's Torvalds at the head of it
and that is basically the at the core
it's like the brain of the whole
operating system that the whole branch
of distributions Linux is open source
right so what what that means at its
heart is that people can now take that
Linux and say I really like it to do
this so Debian comes along and Debian
back in the day said let's build a
robust wicked awesome server operating
system we're going to use Linux to do it
and we're going to build out from there
so packages submitted from all different
people and developers and being grabbed
because it's open source right so I can
find something that I want in my distro
and put it in there make it work test it
make sure that it's stable and then
distribute it and this is Debian so then
a boon to comes along and says you know
canonical says okay what are we going to
base hours on and backing up we've got
you know fedora and we've got the
enterprise red hat enterprise linux rhel
we've got all of those are clinics and
all of those based on linux at its core
right right so then Lubuntu says what
are we going to base hours on we're not
going to go back all the way to Linux
when all this work has now been done and
debian exists and all these things exist
and bsd exists and where are we going to
go from here so now let's actually base
hours on debian ubuntu is based on
debian okay and tear goes is based on
arc which is based on their not based on
but it Linux is at its roar right so
that's that's too overly simplify it but
just to give you kind of an idea because
it's open source because all this stuff
is done in such a way that you can take
it you can remodel it and you can
redistribute it that's why they call
them flavors because you're taking stuff
and you're blending it and you're you
know that's that's why you've got all
these different flavors of Linux and
that's kind of how it works so you Jeff
you could take Debian yep or arc or
whatever but say debian and you could
put your own skins on it you could find
some packages that are on
on antair goes or any other distro and
say oh I'd really like it to have that
and so you take that and you put it in
your debian and then you take that and
that and that put it in there and then
redistribute that as your own operating
system Jeff Ian wow that one's gonna
need some marketing yeah so here we are
we've got the installation up and
running when you first boot from the
entire ghost boot media notice that it
first reaches out on the web and see it
checks if if Nietzsche is in need of any
updates and that's the Installer if it
says that updates were installed see
that you might be wise to close
Nietzsche which comes up automatically
and reopen it with this button on the
top left hand side here and that will
just ensure that you are running the
current version here we go so I'm going
to open that application which is my
installer I can click on that and click
on install it right there ok so it's
detected my language is English or it's
just defaulted to that up here we've got
forward and back buttons as as simple as
hitting next so hope it's got some cool
and see when i hit the not even jumps
around and everything right from the
livedesk so you can you notice what that
means is you can actually try it out and
play around with it right in advance of
installing it which is destructive so
maybe we should say you know if you're
doing this on your live computer make
sure that you've backed up everything
because this is going to destroy the
things that are on your hard drive
because you're installing a new
operating system yes if you want to try
it you can boot from it and do the try
and tear goes rather than the installing
tear goes and it won't be destructive ok
so I'm going to click on the next button
next question that it's going to ask me
well nothing it's just saying hey you
got enough hard drive you got your
plugged into power he's got the internet
and you're up to date next where are you
canada eh where are you time zone time
zone is toronto sure English Canada
keyboard nice you know our keyboards
have a bunch of French characters on it
yes they do
yep it's always you know I'm almena all
the way so US 101 so if I'm looking for
the / key our keyboards are American
here yes that's right those yeah it is
true you go into a store and they're
going to have French keys all over them
which is cool okay so what this is cool
what desktop environment do you want
first of all none I just want to base
say you're building a server based on
our current air goes there you go
cinnamon beautiful from Linux Mint looks
beautiful known and that's gnome 3 of
course that's giving you the latest and
greatest from gnome KDE 4 is also
included matei or mate for those of us
with French the need for accent a goo
and then we've got open box in xfce
which are perfect if you're going to be
running this on an older computer
because they're very very lightweight
right so next step okay let's say we
want to go with mate highlight it click
Next all right what do you want to
include inter install the or
repositories those are basically like
unsupported stuff that's added by the
the community it's going to have some
bleeding edge stuff in there that's kind
of cool you can turn it on later though
you don't have to turn it on right now
bluetooth support if your computer has
bluetooth like a laptop then you want to
turn that on so that you can use your
wireless headphones and things like that
extra truetype fonts if you do writing
or any kind of publishing you want to
add those firefox web browser if you
want it install it long-term support
edition of the colonel that means that
you'll be getting the long-term support
and our viewer who is asking about you
know not having to necessarily install
an operating system every six months as
is the boon to model basically right
granted they you can update but it
really i like to reinstall but red LTS
as is the model with ubuntu if you use
the LTS Colonel you're going to have a
longer support cycle which is good but
it's not going to be quite as bleeding
edge that's the that's the downfall to
it so bleeding edge or not bleeding edge
but more longevity LibreOffice again
free software it's a office clone sweet
kind of thing we
word compatible document editing and
Excel compatible spreadsheet editing
printing support you need to have a
printer on this computer do you want it
or not steam and play on Linux well cool
it's included you can turn it on
uncomplicated firewall if you want to
protect yourself from outside threats
and windows sharing Samba stuffed so
that you can access windows files and
shares we're going to turn everything
off for the sake of the demo just
because I want to be quick and we're
going to erase disk and install enteric
Argos remember this is completely
destructive so it's going to wipe
everything if we do that you can encrypt
your installation which means you are
going to have an encrypted hard drive so
someone steals your computer and tries
to connect that to something else
they're not going to be able to read the
data also they're not going to be able
to boot the computer because they don't
know your password so as you if you do
that when you turn on the computer
you're going to have to enter your
password every single time before it
will even reach the bootloader so cool
that is good but in a family scenario
like with the kids it would be an added
hassle for them to have to do so unless
I don't want to be using their computer
Yeah right laptop or something like that
it's a good idea use lvm with the
installation that has positives and
negatives that probably the biggest
positive is the ability to do lvm
snapshots which is basically live on the
fly backups while the system is running
so if you're running it as a server
would be the perfect example you can
take a backup of MySQL without having to
stop the MySQL process okay okay so
that's that's kind of like a volume
Shadow Copy in a way or a hot copy set
your home in a different partition or
volume if you want to use a different
hard drive for your home folder good
example of why you would want to do that
as if you've got an SSD we really super
fast but relatively small as far as
capacity goes hard drive you can install
and tear goes to that your operating
system and software right but then you
might want to put your home folder on
that one terabyte hard drive we've got
kicking around because it's just your
documents and your downloads and things
like that you might as well take the
space you don't need a lot of speed on
that particular drive correct that's why
you might want to do that so let's go
next warning you're going to wipe
everything from your hard drive you sure
yeah make sure you've selected the right
one I've only got one if you've got
multiple hard drives make sure you
select the right one also make sure you
don't accidentally select the USB
flash drive that's in there make sure
you don't write a USB card reader with
an SD card in there and accidentally
wipe out all your family photos from
that disk that kind of thing who would
that would be bad yeah remember backing
up then I said back up everything okay
next are you sure yeah let's do it are
you really sure you want to continue
well yes I do and I'm going to but we're
gonna take a break for for the news sure
to find out what's what's going on so
stick around because right after the
news we're going to we're going to have
a little chat a little bit more about
aunt Argos we're going to finish off the
Installer i'm going to show yet and
we're going to what we're going to boot
into mate and we're going to also look
at some cool linux terminal commands one
that is going to help you operate your
user history in the terminal and another
that is going to allow us to sync
documents and files across multiple
linux windows or mac computer or looking
at strictly the linux end of things to
know it's safe so much time indeed now
for the magic of television it's Tuesday
to remember third 2015 and hear the
stories were covering this week amazon
and ebay could be liable for billions of
pounds of unpaid sales tax in the UK if
they fail to properly investigate
traders using sites to escape sales tax
at the beginning of the show I think I
said lithium ion batteries but it's
actually lithium-air batteries are one
step closer to production a new design
has overcome many of the hurdles holding
back the development of these efficient
powerhouses and yamaha is developing a
racing robot built to ride high speed
motor bikes as well google is well on
track with Project loon their balloon
based internet provision network and
Warner Bros is refunding gamers who
bought the pc version of batman arkham
knight we have the honest-to-goodness
biggest news that we've ever announced
that's ever been dropped from Star Trek
in many years at this time comes
directly from CBS these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere you've
got mad skills now hone them learn new
skills or improve your existing one
with online video tutorials and training
from Linda calm through our special link
at cat five dot TV / Linda learn
software technology creative and
business skills you can use today to
help you achieve your professional goals
join today and start learning will give
you this chance to try it absolutely
free with unlimited access to all of the
courses sign up now for free cat5 dot TV
/ Linda I'm Jeff less than filling in
for Sasha de mattos and here are the top
stories from the category 5 TV news room
companies such as Amazon and eBay could
be held responsible for unpaid sales tax
if they fail to investigate traders
using their services for tax evasion the
online marketplaces could be legally
required to spot the tax evasion
committed by many of their overseas
sellers UK firms so they say they're
being put out of business by the unfair
petition competition sorry amazon and
ebay say that they can make all users
aware of the legal obligations but
ultimately feel that they should not be
expected to tax to be the tax police for
the users and could could cooperate with
an investigation if evidence was
provided Rita de la feria is a professor
in tax law at Durham University and she
says if the scale of the fraud is as big
as the anecdotal evidence indicates then
we could be talking about billions of
pounds Wow anecdotal evidence indicates
there's a tongue-twister under EU law
amazon ebay and other marketplaces could
be held jointly liable for all unpaid
sales tax along with the offending
traders if action was taken against them
lithium-air cells could store energy
much more densely than today's
lithium-ion batteries making them
particularly promising for electric cars
but several big hurdles have stood in
the way of the concept the new design
for lithium-air batteries overcomes many
of these problems the design published
in science uses a spongy graphene
electrode and a new chemical reaction to
drive the cell it loses much less energy
and can be recharged many more times
than previous attempts at lithium-air
battery
the hope for lithium-air batteries is
that they will take in regular air to
fuel the chemical reaction that releases
electricity lithium ions move from the
positive electrode to the negative
electrode where their oxen eyes present
the engineers behind the new effort at
the University of Cambridge have only
made laboratory test units which operate
in pure oxygen rather than air at first
however the prototypes can operate when
the oxygen is moist despite the
significant programs made by the team
they say a commercial lithium-air
batteries at least 10 years away 10
years it seems so long away with
considering how fast technology advances
well you know I'm looking at this
prototype in thinking okay yeah looks
like they're little ways off yeah a
little bit that's good but I mean good
you get some funding from from sponsors
for the university though that they'll
clean it up real quick yeah yamaha
motors has revealed that is developing a
robot designed to ride any racing motor
bike at high speeds oh the japanese
company unveiled a prototype at the
tokyo motor show at present it is
reliant on human operators but in time
the firm plans to have the Android make
its own decisions about the best course
and speed to achieve the best race time
around a track and I suppose I don't
want to be putting in the test law
update that firmware update that just
came out or just going to drive off the
road I don't know the idea of a robot
driving a bike I thought that and then I
thought what a cool sport to go and see
robots race oh no that would be cool to
me but would it be a spork is at that
point you're dealing with perfection no
it wouldn't but there's no risk to human
life and they can do twice as much speed
as a human could because of the risk
factor involved they're not so concerned
about risk because of the they've taken
life out of the equation right and made
it so hey we can really do some crazy
stuff thinking along the lines of battle
bots
yes technology i love it Google first
revealed its super pressure balloon plan
in june 2013 when about 30 of the
inflatable plastic envelopes were
launched from New Zealand dubbed Project
loon Google believes they're on course
to have enough internet beaming balloons
in the stratosphere to form a ring over
part of the world next year google says
the move will let it trial a continuous
data service to people living below the
balloons path the declaration coincides
with the announcement that three of
Indonesia's mobile networks intend to
start testing project loons
transmissions next year so we're like a
previously signed a separate agreement
signalling its wish to be another
participant in the giant helium balloon
based scheme and the original setup
provided 3g like data speeds but the kit
can now supply connected devices with
about 10 megabits a second two connected
devices via the antenna on the ground
for comparisons sake the average 4G
connection is around 15 megabits a
section a second the advantage of a
balloon based system over satellites is
that it could ultimately be cheaper to
maintain at least if all the
technological technological changes can
be overcome Google isn't stopping with
Project loon though it's also pursuing a
separate effort codenamed Titan which
aims to use solar panel drones to
provide the internet two unconnected
parts of the world Facebook is also
developing a similar drone-based scheme
now stratosphere is that as high as the
that extreme red bull jumpers was that
higher than strata stratosphere where
does the stratosphere actually you're
going to make me I'm putting you on the
spot so yeah I don't know that stopped
very well yeah but I'm assuming that
they wouldn't continue to fly away
because of lack of gravity yeah well
let's we've got the web right behind you
on your big screen TV so stratosphere
wikipedia will tell us stress your
hotels know that's going to knock it
take care of it stratosphere the
stratosphere is the second major layer
of earth's atmosphere just above the
rappo sphere and below the mesosphere
its Stratus fun strata just like saying
below the balloon yeah alright so it's
up there if it's somewhere in the air as
you where you will find it yeah there it
is yeah alright cool that's kind of fun
alright now that I've made you do your
homework on the batman arkham knight it
was released in late june and the pc
version was pulled soon after because of
the technical faults that made it
unplayable for many people the bugs are
thought to have emerged because the game
was originally made for consoles and
later converted or ported to run on PCs
now Warner Brothers is offering full
refunds to anyone who bought the pc
version of the Arkham Knight video game
via the stream gaming service the offer
was being made because it said his
issues were causing the game the issues
that were causing the game cannot be
fixed it said the offer was available to
anyone no matter how much they of the
game they'd already played the offer
comes only days after a cleaned-up
version of the game was released for pc
owners and notes that accompany the
updated release however warner said one
bug meant players on Windows 7 pcs would
periodically have to restart the game to
avoid crashes on Windows 10 Warner
recommended players have no less than 12
gigabytes ramp far more than most modern
pcs usually require for those who wish
to keep playing the game bug fixes will
continue to be provided and Star Trek
the big news celebrates its 50th
anniversary in 2016 and yesterday CBS
announced that they're producing a
totally new Star Trek television series
yes I'm excited about this the new
series will blast off in 2017 with a
special preview broadcast of the
premiere episode on the CBS television
network and the premiere episode and all
subsequent first-run episodes will then
be available exclusively in the United
States on CBS all access the brand new
Star Trek will introduce new characters
seeking imaginative new worlds and new
civilizations while exploring the
dramatic contemporary themes that have
been a signature of the franchise since
its inception in 1966 Alex Kurtzman will
serve as executive producer for the
series he's the one who co-founded are
sorry co-wrote and produced
the 2009 Star Trek blockbuster as well
as star trek into darkness the new
series will be produced by CBS
television studios in association with
Kurtzman's secret hideout the new
program will be the first original
series developed specifically for us
audiences for CBS all access a
cross-platform streaming service that
brings viewers thousands of episodes
from CBS's current and past seasons on
demand plus the ability to stream their
local CBS television stations live for
five dollars 99 cents per month CBS all
access already offers every episode of
all previous Star Trek television series
now CBS all access can be viewed on your
Roku device and is available in the
United States no word yet on how or if
even international viewers will be able
to catch the new show it's only a matter
of time we'll get it in kicking yeah
it's gonna happen but I'm not too keen
on the fact that we're all being left
out and it's just the United States I
mean kudos to you guys yeah you got Star
Trek and it's exciting that it's an
actual CBS production yes but yeah go
ahead it's only you it's why don't we
get it up here in Canada it should well
I mean when JJ Abrams got the the
ability to produce the to direct the
Star Trek movies I'd heard you'd put in
a pitch for TV show and was turned down
I really bummed about that because ever
since Enterprise has really been nothing
going on well see the problem is is that
when CBS split and visit paramount that
took over I think saw some kind of the
movie aspect and and CBS held on to the
the rights to the television show so
there are now two different companies
right where was Viacom or something like
that I don't know but they split anyways
yeah it was no longer the same company
owning the movie rights and the
television show right so that's why we
haven't seen a show in so long because
they've been bringing out movies but
that's a totally different studio right
so if they wanted to bring out a TV show
they would have to pitch it to CBS
that's right yeah you know what's this
going to mean for Star Trek renegades uh
that's a good question i think that well
i mean the team at Star Trek renegades
are obviously excited I think they
probably had some inside knowledge
because when they pitched to CBS they
came back and said okay we didn't get on
with CB
s our pilot was not picked up as a
series however there is big news and
will you'll be finding out about it
whether that's that they were going to
proceed with a web series or whether
that's that CBS has already had
something in the kind of in the works we
don't really know that at this point but
I I think what's different about the new
CBS series though is that it's not going
to have all those familiar faces that
renovate that's true so renegades kind
of has its own so they're gonna have to
work together to make sure the timelines
flow because renegades has that
backstory of the original like people
from t and t ng I think but definitely
ds9 voyager there some voyager yeah
obviously with tim russ and a few others
so it's it's a little bit different for
sure but it's gonna be interested it's
gonna be a fun year renegades will be
out before the CBS series right starts
yes so yeah I'll have that one first
step all right big thanks this week to
heather bailey brown roy w nash and our
community viewers for submitting stories
to us if you've found a new story you'd
like to send email at to newsroom at
category 5 TV for all your tech news
with a slight linux bias visit the
category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room i'm jeff weston filling in for
sasha tomatoes thanks Jeff this is
category 5 technology TV welcome to the
show I'm here how did you do that I'm
quickman Wow so good so good at all you
do this is episode number 424 and
tonight we are looking at and tear goes
we're gonna finish up the installation
here I'm just gonna close it I got a
whole bunch of space shots on Wikipedia
up in the screen hey to our chat room
could we name drop some of the folks in
the chat room how it's so nice to see
and we've got such a busy show tonight
that we're not it were not by any means
ignoring the chat room it's it's there's
a lot going on here in the studio so
welcome to everybody let's named yeah ok
so like I'm looking around I'm seeing
cool dude thanks for joining us Hey look
Jeff lessons in the chat well figure I
hear he's a nice guy yes he is linden
main geek 75 maccrimmon's here Rob shad
sparkly balls spring cowboy whiskey zero
that guys like famous he's always in the
room great to see you folks yeah thanks
for joining us here at category 5 TV
nice to have you here and tear ghost is
all set up and installed let's boot it
up for the first time here we go moment
of truth folks nothing like installing a
distro on live TV I've got a mouse
cursor that's cool his little blue box
there is a little blue box should I push
it the blue box to the red box which one
do you press which one which one ah yeah
all right click on my name enter my
password you'll notice that mate is
there if I wanted to I could install
other desktop environments and I could
actually choose when i login which
environment I would like how cool is
that let's login
niceness now do keep in mind too we've
got a lot going on in this particular
system that we're demoing with mmm
integrals does run very very fast and
quite well alright so here it is and
tear goes with mate and we've added to
their panel by right-clicking on it and
just added a quick main menu app and
that gives us this menu up here so there
it is aunt air goes with mate straight
up out of the box nice and clean it's a
nice sleek look it's clean and fast and
wireless works right out of the box on
all the devices that I've tried it with
so that netbook just took everything and
just loves it so awesome works really
really well I was talking about packages
and and the fact that Aunt air goes does
have up-to-date current packages and
you'll find that if you go into now on
mate I believe it's under system tools
add remove software and you'll see here
you know if you do a search for any
application let's say mine test see what
happens the game that the kids like zero
point four point one three dash to which
is a lot more current than say the
package in a boon to right it's it's
just the way that that works so so from
a gaming perspective yeah you're going
to get more current packages now we're
here on November 3 2015 so you may have
a newer version of mind test for example
by the time this you see this episode so
what I want to do okay there's two
things that I want to really quickly
look at because we're just about at a
time and I understand that but I know
that you want to see so we're going to
jump into the terminal which here on
mate is system tools mate terminal there
it is alright so if I've done a bunch of
commands on my system I've done LS I've
done LS dash lah I've done which is
long-form archives and human format
readable if i add s with a capital s lah
it's going to alphabetize it sorted by
size i mean so we're going to get sorted
with the biggest at the top so i've done
all these commands let's say we do an
ssh to whatever a site dot net and blah
blah blah okay so say that that was a
real thing right so now typically what
do we do well if I've forgotten the
command or if it's back at my history I
tend to go like this wrap SSH and
there's my command so I can copy that
and paste it and it would give me the
same result okay so history on linux
usually gives you kind of a list like
that and by grapping through it I can
see any of those so if i want to see all
the LS commands i can do that and it
gives me all the ones that are LS
including because i didn't put a space
first the history that i just did you go
to space oh it does keep that some
distros will not keep that one if you
put a space for first so try it on your
your debian-based driven it may it may
not keep that one in history so you end
up with this big long list of history
and it becomes a hassle to keep up with
when you want access to it sometimes
it's a pain you know what I'm talking
about hit ctrl R on your keyboard in
your terminal that's going to take you
through reverse I search all you have to
do now is type s s done SSH a site let's
instead let's cancel that and go SSH be
site net and it's going to fail to no
big deal history now looks like this
okay hit ctrl r and type SSH I've got be
site now hit ctrl R again SSH a site oh
nice it toggles through anywhere that
the word SSH was used every time I hit
ctrl R so I'm able to cycle through that
and then as soon as I'm ready I just hit
enter and it will run the command from
history so whatever it is makes a nice
fast it's basically like a search for
history so L ass notice it started with
grep LS tick control are again LS dash
SLA LS dash L eh let's push ctrl R again
L ass by itself nice eh so that's it
that is simply control are the reverse I
search in in your terminal now if you
control are and you go back through the
list say you accidentally pass the one
you want it is their way to pop forward
or do you have to restart the list over
that's a good question and that's not
something that I have ever needed so
let's see I'm sure there's a way to go
back but I don't know what it is okay
will google that for you but it does
make things really really fast to get
through and it works quite well so you
can hit escape to our control C to
cancel hit enter to actually do it and
you're good to go nice yeah this is
show we're looking at in ter ghost Linux
a little bit we'd installed it it's
running so you saw there how easy it is
to install this particular driv our
clinics yes nice and simple let's take a
look at sinking our files between two
different systems we're not going to get
too in depth with this product today
because it is going to be featured on
the show we're going to show you
specific scenarios where you can use it
but tonight we're just going to give you
a little preliminary so that you can see
what it is and and give you a little bit
of a talk on how to use it we're going
to go ad remove so this is a nice clean
vanilla and tear ghost install and we're
going to search for unison unison there
is 2.48 dot 3 dash two that's the most
current version and you need to make
sure when you're installing unison that
the version that you're installing on
every computer matches so it doesn't
matter if you're on Linux Windows or Mac
you have to make sure that it's the same
version okay you mind if I can I just
bring that up sure and now it's rubbing
on your shirt
chatroom probably is the unison has to
be the same version otherwise it won't
be compatible okay so if you've got an
older distro you may have to install
from source for example and tear goggles
as I mentioned is pretty bleeding edge
with its packages so it always tends to
have the latest and greatest right on so
to install that of course there we go
let's run it enter our password this is
like super user password and there we go
unison is installed unison has to be
installed on each system which you wish
to connect to using unison or to share
files with and we type unison to see
that it is in fact installed what unison
allows us to do is sync thing think
about our sink or our diff how we can
sync files to another computer or to
another hard drive and only have to sync
the changes right what unison does
differently as it says okay you've got a
version of your documents here for
example let's also have a version of
your documents on your laptop to use a
really good example so now with unison
and you can run it as a cron or whatever
and we're going to get into this on a
future show we can now say okay these
two need to be synced so unison make
sure hey is the laptop got the newer
version let's move that over copy it
over to the desktop and we'll sink those
bit changes to the desktop so if I have
my laptop at a coffee shop no internet
nothing and I'm working on my document
in My Documents folder I'm not actually
connected to the home computer but I've
got access to it I can make the changes
and then I go home and I open the laptop
and the cron job runs and it syncs using
unison to the desktop so then I would
walk down the stairs and by the time I
get down there sit down open documents
and open the document that I was working
on at the coffee shop all the changes
that I made are there right so I'm
really excitable because I do this kind
of stuff all the time i'll be using one
computer flip to the other but it's
frustrating to not have the same
document it's tough and what so what do
we do we centralize on a server and then
we're always connecting to that one
point
so it doesn't protect you from Fire
doesn't protect you from anything like
that doesn't protect you from data
corruption on the files or if the hard
drive crashes for example one of the
kids opens up in the document and it
highlights all and hits a bunch of keys
and hit save it's now overwritten the
main master copy right so with this
you've got a copy on all of your devices
that you're using unison on so you've
got that on your laptop you can take
your laptop out if there's a fire or
something like that it's not a backup
per se but it is a second copy its
redundancy and redundancy is good yes so
you'd still be backing it up and
everything but this lets you now edit
the files on any system and synchronize
bi-directionally so you might edit three
files on your laptop and 10 files on
your desktop they will sink if there's a
conflict it'll warn you if somebody
edited the file on two systems it'll say
hey here's the differences what do you
want to do nice i like that so let's get
can i give a real quick preliminary look
at how this can work absolutely if we go
into documents okay it's empty right now
let's just create a really fast document
file will bring up libreoffice oh we
don't have LibreOffice let's use a
thrill okay created a no that's not
going to let us create it let's just
touch a file so nano my file in my
documents i'm going to say hello all
right so that's my file if i look
there's a file called my file it could
be a doc it could be whatever if I cat
it it says hello all right so now on my
other computer or whatever it could be a
mount point it could be whatever you
want but let's say I have a mount point
that is my laptop's documents just to
just to make it real scream and simple
now what happen do because I've got out
that mount point let's pretend that
that's a mount point it's connected to
another computer now if i use unison i
can say unison documents laptop
documents okay and i can run that
command
and it's detected hey there's a file
called the file there's the file proceed
without with propagating updates yeah
okay so the file in documents called my
file see that yep now the file in laptop
documents also called my file they are
not symlinks so if i go into laptop
documents and i edit the file there's
hello cut hello to from laptop okay and
i just saved that so now if I cat that
see that yep so now go up one level and
cat the documents version it doesn't
have that hello to from laptop so now
let's oh you see what I started to do in
there up button up button yes let's hit
ctrl R we learned that today reverse I
search and we're going to type unison
okay okay exactly the same command all I
had to do is type on with control our
hit enter and what does it say oh the
file my file changed on one on the right
laptop documents do you want to proceed
with propagating updates yes so now if I
cat that same file documents my file it
has the changes beautiful so I didn't
have to say rsync from there to here
arcing from here to there no it figured
out which one was changed and it did the
bit bit by bit coffee to basically
update that file look at it matches so
now they're up to date so that whole
process can be automated it can be set
up as a cron job there are no questions
asked we can set up SSH John each system
so that we've got ssh file system mount
points and we're connecting through
multiple systems we can use NFS we can
use SMB we can do whatever we want to
connect all these systems together and
then unison works as the little tiny
application that runs on a one-minute
cron job if you want and make sure that
those files are synchronized right okay
that's pretty cool stuff now does it
only work with just documents or would
it work with music house or anything
like that yeah it should work with all a
because it's a bit by bit copy
right so if I changed file but with a
music file I would think that if you
change something in a music file like
changed it and resaved it would be like
a whole new file I don't know how many
of the bits would be the same okay so
one of the advantages to bit copy like
this is that if I changed three letters
of a file it only has to sink three
letters doesn't write a snowcat whole
file it also leaves everything in the
same state so unison makes sure that
your files are always in a same state so
if for example you lost your network
connection and during that sync
operation it will not corrupt your file
well that's good so it's basically
unison it in and of itself is not in
active development because it's already
you know it's functional it does what it
set out to do they don't have to
continue doing a whole lot of stuff the
folks who originally developed it it
continued to use it so as they find
things that had really like it to do
this or oh I found a bug they fix it and
they read and they release those fixes
as well so it's not in active
development because it doesn't have to
be but it is still being supported and
and you know bug fixes are being patched
and things like that here and there but
nobody's getting paid to do that it's
direct that's something that they use
and so they continue to use it so check
it out it's called a unison make sure
your versions are matched with something
like in Terre goes you're going to get
the latest version some other
distributions 1504 are 15 10 is out and
it doesn't have the new version of
unasyn so you'll have to add it from
source okay from source cool now there
was a few questions in the chat room
about it one from DJ quad is unison just
our sink rapper not not exactly now what
I'll do is I'll post the link for you in
the show notes i'll post it in the chat
room immediately following the show as
well but you can also get into your
favorite search engine type in unison
file synchronizer and you'll find out
that it does a lot more than that so
it's not just our sink it's not just our
debt if backup it does a lot more
either of those two individual things
whether or not it uses those things as a
rapper I I think that it depended like
it it uses other open technologies and
it is open source you can find out more
about that on their website okay and
Dennis Kelly was wondering what's the
package manager for Astros for integrals
integrals sorry yeah let's take a look
system tools add remove software here it
is about pack Mac Pro kamik i want to
say pacman no it's the hammock the
hammock okay and now you know the rest
of the story good times any other
questions for us quickly because we are
right out of time no that was it Jeff
man great work tonight well thank you
thanks for for filling in for Sasha
don't forget make sure you check out our
patreon profile we've got very little
time to make this happen folks all it
takes is 25 cents to make a world of the
difference patreon.com/scishow a 5 is
your search all-time great to see you
great to see you thanks for joining us
tonight good recipes
we hope you enjoyed the show category
five key be broadcast live from Barrie
Ontario Canada every tuesday at seven pm
eastern if you're watching this on
demand or if your cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at
category five TV and find out when you
can watch live and interact in the
committee chat room category five is a
production of prodigy digital solutions
and is licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
