welcome back this is category five
technology TV and tonight I am joined by
Jonathan bhai Jonathan thank you so much
for being here with us tonight it's
great to be here
thank you jonathan is the founder of exe
block and and it is something that we've
been talking about on the show because
we see these comments on YouTube we get
these emails from our viewers asking
about things like cryptocurrency in the
blockchain so we've been talking a
little bit about the blockchain and
cryptocurrency but I am by no means a
professional when it comes to these
topics so the best thing for me to do to
answer your questions is to bring on
professionals who are way more versed at
at these complicated topics than I am
and that's where Jonathan comes in so
Jonathan it's great to have you here can
you explain to us a little bit about
your history on how you got involved in
this blockchain technology sure actually
it has a little bit to do with why I am
broadcasting from this particular
location back in 2012 I acquired a 64
thousand square foot nuclear bunker
located in Nova Scotia Canada it was one
of the original of Cold War bunkers that
was created by the government of Canada
back in the day they're referred to as
defend bunkers and so I was lucky enough
to be able to acquire this one and back
then I was in the data center business
so I looked at this as an infrastructure
type of place which had unique cooling
capabilities and back in 2009 is when
Bitcoin started and around that time I
was already interested in blockchain and
I started to look at the possibility of
being able to use this facility for
mining Bitcoin so as I explored that
possibility I realized that there was a
lot of issues that surrounded Bitcoin
itself in regards to how it works the
risks involved in mining I really
couldn't bring myself to
get into that kind of risk I guess but
my interest in blockchain continued to
explore the space and that's when I
started to discover other types of
projects that were out there and the
project that I gravitated towards most
was called bitshares bitshares is a
decentralized exchange it's actually a
blockchain which offers exchange
functions and so back then this was
about 2013 2014 I started getting very
heavily involved in that particular
blockchain and that's where all my
understanding of blockchain came from
the technology it's very different from
how Bitcoin works back then I became
what's called a witness that's basically
a node operator similar to miners but
the actual computing requirements are
very are very different it's much more
efficient doesn't take a lot of power
actually uses the same kind of hardware
that my server farm was made of so it
was very easy for me to be able to make
that move and of course I gained support
from the stakeholders because that
system works on a voting mechanism
rather than working on proof of work
like Bitcoin where you just throw as
much computing power as you can at the
network and you know you hopefully get a
share of it the type of network the
contempo consensus that that network
works by is called delegated proof of
stake which means that everybody who has
a stake in the network votes for who is
going to secure the network so you have
to be able to prove your trustworthiness
your technical prowess in order to gain
the support of everybody who are
stakeholders in the network so I was
able to do that and over the years I of
course went on to get involved in the
launching of steam which is another
blockchain which actually is focused on
being able to provide content it's
almost like a type of a reddit but the
difference is is that when you share
your content on that blockchain the
blockchain actually pays you for sharing
that watch for able to share the content
so when you tie steam this is not
related to the gaming Platt
this is something entirely different -
same name as yeah so it's spelled ste M
so it's short for s team so the if you
go to steam it comm you'll be able to
see it and that particular blockchain
basically flipped the whole model of
content on its side me because what
happens is that you're able to produce
content and actually be paid based on
its popularity from the blockchain
itself and so over the years that has
gained momentum these two block scenes
alone that I just mentioned which I was
involved in over the years
now account for six sixty percent of all
the blockchain activity taking place in
the world today so you take a look at
aetherium it accounts for approximately
maybe thirty percent the entire network
and you looked a Bitcoin it's maybe ten
percent written and everything this is
just you know little sliver it is the
rest of everything else that's out there
so let's back up a little bit do you
argue underground yes
so this facility is approximately goes
forty feet underground is it's quite
large this particular space were in now
is actually my office but there's many
different facets to this facility so
this is where we develop from the X
block team yeah this is also where I
continuing my story into blockchain
after Steam I actually went on to
actually create my own blockchain and
it's called pure plays okay so with that
I used the same type of technology which
was behind those other two I just
mentioned and what what peer places does
is it's dedicated to provably fair
gaming what that does is is it solves
the problems that exists today in
regards to the gaming industry with
being able to provide proof of all the
transactions that take place in an audit
trail and I said I want to come I want
to talk about this whole like how the
industry is using the blockchain but
Before we jump too far ahead here
Jonathan you're talking about the
blockchain and how this
is impact like how this is like create
an entire business for you can we just
if we could just break for a moment and
just say let's talk later here what in
your words would you consider is the
blockchain like can we just break it
down real quick before we start getting
into the the the uses for it
sure so you know a lot of people talk
about the various things that make up a
blockchain I like to break it down into
just four simple things
okay if you have these four simple
things you have a decentralized public
blockchain alright number one you have
to have a consensus mechanism so I
mentioned earlier proof of work I
mentioned delegated proof of stake so
what that means is that there's a
consensus mechanism in order to
determine how the consensus of the
blockchain is going to be determined all
right
there's different ways of doing this but
proof of work and proof of state are
generally the most used and then you
have number two you have an incentive
structure of some kind we know in
Bitcoin for example the incentive
structure for miners is that they want
to be able to mine on Bitcoin because
they're gonna receive Bitcoin for
providing that computing power so there
has to be some kind of incentive
structure that aligns the interests of
the people who maintain the blockchain
with keeping with maintaining it and
being able to make it so that is
actually decentralized third thing is to
have some kind of a ledger every single
blockchain has a ledger we know it's as
a distributed ledger and all that really
is is that if there's copies of the
ledger that are replicated and
duplicated all across the various node
operators that are that are all over the
world and then fourth you have some kind
of smart contract so in the case of
crypto currencies for example Bitcoin
smart smart contract is providing a
token of size is providing a coin right
in aetherium there's all kinds of diff
applications are being created with
smart contracts that are programmable to
do various things for bitshares that I
just talked about it's smart contract is
a series of operations to provide a
decentralized exchange so it's able to
provide multiple tokens it's able to
provide exchange functions so as long as
you have some kind of smart contract
system which simply broken down is if
this then that then you have with all
these four elements you have a
decentralized blockchain now there are
ways to be able to create a blockchain
without these four elements but what you
have then is something is quite
different just think of it like baking a
cake so this is it cuz you know this is
the simplified version it's no wonder
that the blockchain is so confusing to
so many like this is I can't imagine how
much you've had to immerse yourself in
this technology
yeah well it's it took me I'll admit
when I first got involved that it took
me a long time to really grasp how
things worked in and what it all meant
it's not it's not easy to be able to
shift your way of thinking to be able to
really comprehend it all but when you
have these four things they really make
up what what is the magic which is
really the disruption opportunity of
blockchain but when you try to take away
certain things you're able to create
something that isn't blockchain it's
almost like imagining like I said you
bake a cake let's just take away the
eggs right and you might have you might
come up with something and if you've
never had cake before you might think
you're eating cake but you're not eating
cake okay you can egg substitute right
so a lot of people are out there they're
creating variations of what blockchain
technology has to
for okay and it doesn't really offer it
really doesn't do what the promise of
blockchain has with it you have to have
all the ingredients and in order for it
to work okay can we can we talk about
now I got in the message on YouTube from
circuit man and circuit man has some
very valid questions points that I'd
like to share with you and and just kind
of get your opinion and and your
expertise on these points so if I'm a
circuit man says so I can see blockchain
solving some complex issues going
forward I don't think it's changing our
daily life as we know it in any dramatic
way since everyone will have their own
blockchain you will still have to trust
that blockchain for the piece of fruit
for example put out by the company that
sells that fruit so I just don't see how
it would be any more trustworthy than
just looking at sale label today if I
also see crypto coins as being a sort of
a fad until I can pay my mortgage or car
payment with it I can't take it too
seriously as a currency I can I can
correct pardon me I was correct about
the stock market and the housing bubble
and I'm pretty sure I'm right about this
not one country is behind cryptocurrency
and unless a big country gets behind it
or all the banks behind it then it is
going noplace and I'm more convinced of
this today than ever I could be wrong
however I don't believe I am time will
tell
one final thought from circuit Man one
of the biggest problems we're facing
today is no one stops and says just
because we can do a thing should we I
see so many things being developed today
that would be best left on the drawing
board as a human species we really need
to take a few steps back and look at
what's being done and say is it really a
good idea
ethically morally we won't because
people get excited by the tech and can't
see past the cool factor and that's
really a shame
comes to us from circuit man and we're
speaking with with Jonathan bhai he's
the founder of X block and Jonathan your
comments to to sigh circuit man it's a
lot of comments there I'll do my best to
address the moment so in the beginning
he starts to talk about how everybody's
gonna have block chains this is an
interesting presupposition about where
the future is going and how a blockchain
tech will be used what he's referring to
really is what's called a private
blockchain and as I talked about earlier
in regards to when you bake a cake can
you take out the eggs that is an example
of something where the tech is being
used in a way that really doesn't
provide any good benefits you end up
really with a pretty fancy and actually
inefficient database that doesn't really
have any magic to it other than being
able to say guess what we're using
blockchain right and a lot of companies
are doing this in some cases it works
well in regards to being able to track
inventory or being able to track supply
chains but what he's referring to are
what are basically private blocks so but
would like the Walker coin fall into
that category for example from Burger
King is that the idea behind that that's
that's a pretty good example of a hyped
up type of a project that I don't really
think there's a need for a whopper coin
but I don't know about that well if they
want to have their own rewards program
like almost like airmiles yeah it
certainly serves that function and the
great thing about it is that you don't
have to worry about them taking away
your points because it's all
cryptographically secured in your wallet
right okay there is one that is that
yeah and we've seen that where benefit
programs where you know I've bought so
many coffees at a certain coffee shop
and all of a sudden they decide all
we're gonna switch our benefit program
and you've just lost all of your all of
your free coffees so yeah that would be
a thing of the past at least in this
case yeah it's a small thing and I don't
think that's gonna change our lives
as know about that audience before
YouTube but I don't think that we're
gonna see private blockchains like he's
referring to as the future where
everybody's gonna have blockchains what
we're gonna see into the future really
is public decentralized blockchains
because again that's where all the magic
comes from that's why everyone's so
excited because it creates a system
where everybody is accountable and it's
not put all into the hands of a single
single counterparty which is how all of
our systems up until today have been
based no we've always had some kind of a
middleman per se or an escrow who is
granted a government what was that or a
government or government yes and so with
that that's that's how all our systems
have been designed from the 1960s all
the way up until now all the
technological advancements we've made in
computing have been around being able to
advance current computer processes or
current business processes how do we
make this cheaper better faster but
today with blockchain that just turns it
upside down because it doesn't even pay
attention to those processes instead
we're talking about being able to do
things peer-to-peer we're talking about
being able to have a bottom-up approach
where all the people who are part of the
blockchain are actually deciding the
direction in which things are gonna go
so like I talked about with bitshares
and steam where people are able to vote
the voting cuz the voting system allows
for people to actually participate as
part of the blockchain and being able to
direct its direction so in that regards
I don't see how private blockchains are
really gonna have a future
other than being able to work alongside
with public blockchain so in his in his
example there would have to be some kind
of a third-party validator of those
other block chains that would validate
the transactions taking place and
validating that information in which
case yes you can't
test it because it's actually being
validated by multiple parties instead of
just the company itself so it sounds
like the evolution of the blockchain
technology itself and the way that it is
I hate to use the word controlled
because the whole idea is of
decentralization is that it's not
controlled by any one entity but there
is a certain level of control over hey
we're we're following a blockchain that
is a public blockchain and is trusted is
that am i following you right on that
yeah I mean basically when it comes to
blockchain I mean whether and the
excitement about it is that it's the
capability of being able to transact
value rather than transacting copies the
entire Internet right now today
whenever you're sending information or
you're sending images or you're sending
anything you're sending copies of
everything you're not there's no
originals right you're gonna see the
fabric of how the entire internet
communication system actually changes as
the foundation of that protocol actually
switches over to a blockchain type
protocol when that happens you're gonna
see everything's switch over to a type
of an edge security so instead of having
these giant centralized data bases all
over the world which are being hacked
all the time and they're going to be
hacked eventually all that security gets
pushed to the edge of the network and
becomes decentralized in which case it
becomes a much harder target to be able
to have everybody talks about how
Bitcoin has never been hacked it's
because of the architecture and how it
works
same thing with a lot of other other
block chains that are out there many of
the hacking stories they've heard about
in relation to blockchain have been
largely the centralized exchanges and
those are because they are modeled
around the typical type of computing
systems that we have today and if you're
just creating a target yeah okay now I
hope that we've touched on circuit man's
questions and comments quite well and I
think some of the conversation after our
break is going to kind of circle back
and help answer some of those questions
as well before we do take a break we've
got a real quick question in the chat
room as well over at the chat room Jeff
yeah actually so the question is you
were just talking about public trust
with decentralized blockchain and so
when you're looking at things like
what's recently going on with Facebook
where there's possible regulatory
oversight that's that now could be
coming in place because of the issues
with the data breach on Facebook how do
you deal with that from the blockchain
standpoint if the government's start to
say this is getting out of control we
want to put regulatory oversight on that
do those two concepts conflict or is
there an ability to merge the interests
on both sides so what's happening with
Facebook is largely because as I refer
to just earlier the massive amount of
data which they are in control of they
are able to determine based on their
policies how they're going to handle
your data in a blockchain world there
would be nobody who is handling your
data you would be in complete control of
your data you'd be able to determine
what kind of privacy and privileges
would be granted to anybody or any of
any one entity to be able to access that
information and then be able to deny
access to that information the whole
market which the internet largely is
based on today of being able to sell
people's information is gonna dwindle
you're gonna see where again it's it's
completely peer-to-peer so you don't
have any one entity that's controlling
it governments in terms of regular
regulation haven't been able to catch up
with what's happening with the
blockchain right now the countries are
just starting to form some opinions
around it but I believe it would be in
the best interest of governments to
understand that block chains are
actually self-regulating entities what
that means is that because it's
bottom-up and because the people who
participate in the blockchain are the
stakeholders of the blockchain they are
gonna work in the best interest
the blockchain in order to ensure that
the rights and the responsibilities of
everybody that's involved are going to
be protected otherwise it's not going to
survive it's gonna move it's what will
happen is that people will move on to
the blockchain that does protect
everybody
so these entities because they're able
to self-regulate it becomes something
where the necessity of government
oversight becomes redundant so and it
also because they're decentralized and
they're all over the world it's
impossible to have any one country
actually say something in regards to how
things should operate what we need to
see is all the governments of the world
be able to agree and then we could come
up with some kind of framework but I
think blockchain technology is gonna go
a lot faster than that happening yeah
quite possibly for sure okay so we've
got to take a really quick break we're
speaking with jonathan bhai he is the
founder of X block and we're speaking
about the blockchain but we're really
trying to get to the gritty the the grit
of what is the blockchain how does it
impact our lives and what is going to
change over the next little while
because I'm trying to get my head around
it folks when we come back from our
break we're going to be speaking with
jonathan about how the blockchain is
being used in the world today and what
we're going to see it doing over the
next little while that has nothing to do
necessarily with cryptocurrency stick
around
[Music]
[Applause]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
BMH photo/video ebay or amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV before
the break we were speaking with Jonathan
bhai he's the founder of X block and
we're speaking all about blockchain and
Jonathan it is so nice to have you here
sharing your vast amounts of knowledge
about the blockchain technology tonight
thank you for being here thank you
alright so before the break we were
talking about you know what the
blockchain is how its kind of impacting
things as far as and even touching a
little bit on cryptocurrency but what I
want to know and what I think some of
our viewers are really looking to find
out is we started this talk a couple of
weeks back
about what the blockchain can be used
for that is not cryptocurrency related
are there things that are happening
right now and that you see that are
going to be happening in the near future
that are going to be revolutionising our
world that utilize the blockchain
technology absolutely some people talk
about blockchain in regards to being the
next internet right now where blockchain
technology is at if you can think back
to the early 90s when before the
internet existed there were things
called BBS's oh yes yeah I ran long time
ago oh yeah
- so blockchain today is about ret is
about in that space right now where
every single blockchain is like a walled
off garden similar to how BBS is were
before the internet but the capability
of being able to have interchange
communication or sidechains that means
that law chains being able to
communicate with one another is coming
this is an important step it's difficult
- it seems like it should be a simple
thing but when you're talking when
you're trying to talk to two networks
which are cryptographically secured
being able to have that transmitted
between each other's is a difficult
thing so that technology though is
becoming more mature and as you see that
happen it's going to explode the
possibilities of what can what can take
place on blockchain I mentioned earlier
that I was earlier involved with
bitshares and steam these projects are
little known but the fact is is that
they're not crypto currencies they're
actually services that are being built
on the blockchain their application
layer so with bitshares you have a
decentralized exchange with steam you
have a blogging platform almost which
allows to be able to post content so
these are functions these are actually
applications at the same time our
company X block is in the process of
building a decentralized application
which is called 50/50 labs so 50/50 labs
allows you to be able to run a 50/50
draw entirely on the blockchain so with
that that means that somebody can create
a draw it all exists on the blockchain
people can purchase their tickets it all
exists on the blockchain they receive
their tickets in the blockchain and then
they're able to actually have the draw
settled by the blockchain so this allows
for being able to have no auditing this
allows for me and we'll have an auditing
trail it's completely transparent and
it's instant and it's able to expand
worldwide
so there those are just a couple of
examples of ways that it can be applied
but it's going to explode into so many
other areas the financial institutions
they're looking at cryptocurrency
because that's the most obvious for
being able to do transmission and things
like that but when you look at anything
that has to do with a ledger or a
registry when you think about home
ownership when you think about your
insurance policies when you think about
your birth certificate when you think
about anything that has to do with being
able to create a trail of history the
blockchain becomes the most ideal
solution because it's able to just
continue on forever whereas the systems
that we have today are really temporary
and they're able to be easily hacked or
even disappear and just with multiple
systems everywhere there's no one way to
have that information accessible to
everybody and as you said it's a copy of
a copy of a copy and you've got all
these copies we're done the rivals now
I've always picked your Jonathan maybe
you can shed some light on this but I've
always pictured the blockchain as being
just a cool filled with hashes like the
way you're describing it makes me feel
like it's an it is in and of itself a
bit of a dark web or you know able to
carry and transmit data can you explain
that to me
so yeah it can absolutely be able to
carry and transmit data and the thing is
is that in a pool of hashes what's
happening there is that that's where you
have the layer for the consensus
mechanism and for the and for the the
replication of the of the ledger right
these are the two elements that have to
do with the blockchain itself but
there's a smart contract layer right and
when you look at the smart contract
capabilities if this then that and being
able to program in all these types of
variations of what could happen or what
you want to happen to execute then that
opens up a world of possibilities of
taking anything that's on your phone
today
that's an application being able to have
that operate decentralized and no longer
needing the operator or the company
which created it dictating to you how
that how that decentralized application
is gonna work instead the people who own
it are all the people that use it and
they can actually be able to determine
what kind of features and functions need
to go into this to make it the best that
it is so what this does is it actually
eliminates the need for any kind of
competition because once there's an
application that has lots of users using
it in the blockchain space it makes
almost no sense to try to create
something else because anything that
someone else creates can easily be be
adopted to the existing blockchain
application that's that's doing the same
thing and just be able to make the
changes quickly with the with all the
users consent consensus so you're gonna
see a whole different way for people to
participate in being able to be a part
of what's what's out there in services
instead of this company consumer type of
thing it is the peer-to-peer economy
where everybody is working together and
able to have a piece of what's going on
I I do see that the chat room has some
more questions for us just circling back
before we get into a couple of those to
that Facebook question that happened
just before the break what you're
describing to me sounds like because
we're all very concerned about our datas
privacy and things like that so I'm kind
of grasping that the blockchain is is
going to allow for technologies to exist
say like Facebook so if we can use
Facebook as the example where a it's a
communication platform and has a lot of
data about us but that data can be
decentralized can be in a million places
at once and yet only in one place only
accessible in one place only authorized
by you right with my private key exactly
that is mind-bendingly amazing like I
know the blockchain is
but the like I'm trying to get my head
around this let's jump over to the
chatroom Geoff Sasha what do you have
for for our guests Jonathan tonight yeah
so we have a question from the Foo and
he wants to know how is tracking via the
blockchain different than tracking with
GPG signed messages hmm I'm sorry you
say that again
yeah how is tracking via blockchain
different than tracking with GPG signed
messages so tracking via blockchain
versus tracking do you say PG PG PG o g
PG okay sorry so tracking so that this
comes back to the question of I guess in
regards to privacy if this is the nature
of the question yes I think to do with
you know and the food correct me if I'm
wrong but to do with the ability for the
blockchain to be tracked like say a
monitor you know we think about
Cambridge analytic and being able to
glean all this information well what can
be gleaned from the blockchain how is it
different than the other technologies
that are out there that allow us to
share information in an encrypted format
in a private format so in terms of being
able to track information blockchain is
very elegant in regards to being able to
see where everything originates it's
very very transparent it contrary to a
lot of popular belief that it's actually
something that is anonymous per se the
ability to be able to actually see
everything that's going on is a large
part of what makes it so unique and so
trusted by everybody because you
community you can trace back where in
the Bitcoin example you can trace back
where a Bitcoin started from from wallet
- wallet - wallet wallet until you can
see where it actually originated so it's
really not that it's really not about
being able to have everything hidden but
it is
being able to be transparent in a
different way I'm not suggesting that
everything that we do on the Internet is
gonna be open to everybody but it is a
different type of network where
information is so accessible to
everybody it doesn't it's no longer a
value to anyone I don't know if that
makes a lot of sense
III think we've we've kind of covered
yeah and Jeff's giving me the nod like
yeah I think that i think that that
answers the question does the chat room
have any other questions for us tonight
Jeff not that I'm seeing but I had a
question and just you were talking a
little bit about other areas that the
blockchain would come into play and I'm
thinking you know could it be used for
something like you know every country
has a passport in every country is able
to process those passports
could you take something like
international travel and having
identifiable you know details about
yourself that could be into a blockchain
could you use it in a capacity like that
outside of a computer running algorithms
or is it strictly tied to computer and
technological based means so we're
talking about ID verification and I get
verification I would say is an important
element to what is needed in the
blockchain space today
you know ID doesn't really need
blockchain but blockchain needs ID and
when it comes to passports that's an
excellent example of an application
which could be used for international
travel it would make it so much easier
for countries around the world to be
able to validate passports the
possibility of being able to have
fraudulent passports becomes impossible
so the entire industry of being able to
have fake passports that says that is
gone because it's all validated it's all
part of a consensus Network which is is
true so this is gonna make for
international travel to be faster more
efficient easier and also overall safer
so in that instance that is a good
example of an application for watching
once again a registry which definitely
can be replaced with blockchain function
the technology is important in regards
to the cryptographic security of being
able to create the chain itself but then
you have to have the other three
elements that I talked about you have to
have your consensus you have to have
your incentive structure and you have to
have the smart contracts so if we can
make it so that something like that
existed decentralized then I guess
that's where in this case countries
issuing passports all agreeing to using
a particular blockchain then we can see
that happen all I ask is one percent of
the royalties if your company makes it
happen so if we can get her to agree on
that and we've got a couple of witnesses
here today we're speaking with Jonathan
bhai he is the founder of X block and
specializing in the blockchain
technology itself and you know I feel
like an absolute geek here tonight
because this has been a lot of fun I
mean I admit and and informative and
we've learned a lot tonight Jonathan I
appreciate the time very much before we
wrap up our interview tonight
could you share with us some vision of
what the future looks like
based on blockchain technology what is
to come Wow so there's gonna come a day
not too not too far in the in the near
future where you're gonna find yourself
using your phone it's gonna become more
so tying to biometrics that your private
key is gonna be tied to your own
personal biometrics and when that
happens that's gonna become your own ID
Perseids and as you once that's that's
established that
protocol for being able to establish a
private key and keep it secure to your
person then you're gonna start to see a
big switchover of being able to have
decentralized applications which are
going to exist on your phone that are
gonna allow you to actually partake in
them and be able to actually share in
the revenues that are derived from them
instead of just being an end consumer
you're gonna start to be able to
participate in the building of these
applications you'll be able to actually
make suggestions for the way things
should work and actually have them
happen this is going to allow for a lot
less competition and a lot more
cooperation you're gonna see an ability
to be able to transact worldwide in a
peer-to-peer fashion that has never been
seen before and with that it's gonna
force these regulations and walls that
have been created to be able to stop the
flow of business goods to be able to
just flow around the world freely it's
just it'll be like a tsunami that the
governments around the world aren't
going to be able to keep up with and
that the people are gonna demand I think
that this isn't necessarily about the
excitement of the tech I think this is
the excitement of being able to actually
make the world a better place and being
able to have a tech that enables
empowers every empowers everybody to be
able to do that so my company x-block
we're one of the very first that are
really dedicated to creating the
solutions that we believe are going to
surround that type of activity in the
world and I'm really hoping that more
companies are gonna see that that's
where the future is and that's where
they should be headed awesome Jonathan
it's been great having you on the show
check out their website I've got it
below I mentioned at the top of the show
it is spelled e^x e block and comm and
check them out find out more
Jonathon pleasure and thank you so much
for sharing more information
and I could have imagined that we could
have fit into this amount of time well
thank you for having me thank you very
much all right this is category five
technology TV Wow I'm just I'm just
unbelievably blown away by the
technology the knowledge the information
I personally want to rewind things and
go back over this interview and I think
perhaps you at home should do the same
and and I think that this technology
we're going to see is going to be
something that is not just for the tech
geek this is something that we're going
to see breaking into the world in it for
for mom and dad and and everybody else
so stay tuned we're gonna be seeing that
happen over the next little while are
you having fun are you learning I am
learning okay feel like the new kid on
the block here new kid on the block
chain she coined that right here we've
got the t-shirts on sale
[Laughter]
