[Music]
what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TB or
email us at life and category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob a
Ferguson hey welcome to episode number
156 of category 5 technology TV if
you're wondering what's going on it is
super mario brothers birthday well
yesterday was 25 years we're going to be
talking about it in just a little bit
but celebrating with them tonight with
our non-existent fictional friends
anyways we'll leave it at that but we'll
come back to it this is episode number
156 it's Tuesday September the 13th or
so I say now there's not a lot of stuff
that would keep me from doing a live
broadcast for you here at category 5 TV
but tonight you'll notice that I am
alone and there's a reason for that I
you know I've done the show with a
terrible cold I have done it with a
cough and I've made it through and I
always stick it out because I'm all
about doing live shows for you but
sometimes prenatal classes get booked on
a Tuesday night and as you know my wife
is is expecting our third child so
tonight we are off meeting with our
midwife so so that's where I am right
now in body but here I am in thought so
this is pre-recorded but it is just like
any other broadcast this is a brand new
broadcast we're not doing a rerun on you
tonight this is indeed episode number
one
56 now i'm not i'm not able to join in
the chat room obviously tonight but
there are a lot of people who are
joining you right there at category five
dot TV just beautiful members of our
community who are there to answer your
questions and we thank them for that and
also just a great place to hang out say
hey get to know some of the some of the
people who are involved in the category
five dot TV community we'd love to have
you join them in the chat room category
five dot TV and I hope that you have a
fun time tonight tonight we have got a
lot of stuff going on from the newsroom
I've got a lot of great stories
automatic is transferring the trademark
to WordPress foundation Wi-Fi is soon
going to become a lot easier for linux
users as broadcom has announced that
they're releasing their latest drivers
as open source stick around Google
Instant is being rolled out and we're
going to be looking at that they're
making web searching even easier for the
novice user a lot faster for everyone I
think and of course going to be talking
about super mario bros who are
celebrating 25 years their birthday was
yesterday for the game also just to keep
it interesting tonight i do have a
couple of things that I'd like to give
away at the end of the show so stick
around and I'll be passing out some
freebies so you don't want to miss out
on that tonight right here at category
five dot TV if you're new here it's
fantastic to have you joining us I'd
invite you do if you haven't already
done so register as a registered viewer
on our website category 5 TV it's free
to register and gives you some
advantages over non registered users you
get a couple of extra features there but
also it gives us a chance just to know
who's watching and we'd love to be able
to say greets to you speaking of saying
hello I do have at least one beer
testimonial that has come in this week
got one here from Ashley who says I am
really impressed with the help that I
get in your live chat room now you've
improved a lot definitely worth watching
and gives us a triple plus and five sons
Ashley goes on to say I remember the
time when it was just you and I in the
chat room at Christmas time
and I was with you in there asking
random questions all the way through til
two a.m. in the morning good old times
eh anyways good luck with the
broadcasting that comes to us from
Ashley and definitely that goes along
the lines of what I was saying about all
you know always sticking it out with
with the live broadcast there was once
when Christmas fell on a Tuesday night
so i ended up pre-recording that show
we've done it very very rarely but
pre-recorded that show like I don't know
if it was like two nights before super
super late at night but always making
sure that we have new content here at
category 5 TV and not just throw in your
rerun when I can't make it so very nice
to have you joining us Ashley great to
see you again and hope that you'll join
us in the community at category 5 TV
quite often Ron muy joins us from
Huntington I'm sorry Huntington
California says hello again Robbie great
show as always I enjoyed your photo
manipulation using the command line for
resizing an image perhaps you can also
show us how to script some of those
commands to process photos in a
directory resizing rotating cropping etc
definitely make a bash script or
something that would be a front end for
that would definitely be interested in
doing that for you so that oh so that a
bunch of photos can be processed in a
batch in order to save time looking
forward to learning how to add the
command to a right-click context pop up
as well keep up the great work and kudos
to Hillary for a great show as well from
oh this is a coyote ninja great to have
you here coyote ninja Roy from
California I've also got one here from
TJ who says hey Robbie I've been a GNU
Linux user for four or five years now
and a viewer of your show for about one
year it's a great show and people who
are new and want to learn how about how
to use free software it's great for that
I want to know if even just once you
could do a show on some more advanced
topics nothing crazy but a little bit
more in-depth than your normal show I
had a couple of ideas that I think would
be interesting such as setting up sshfs
FTP servers with ch roof jail compiling
a kernel optimized for your hardware
using gnu screen for terminal multi
flexing or installing a boon to with the
minimal I so and then installing a
minimal window manager anything along
those lines would be really interesting
to us geeks and also maybe for the noobs
as well thanks for your time from TJ
gives us five out of five sons thank you
very much TJ and what do you think of
that idea everybody in the community
would love to hear from you drop me an
email live at category 5 TV love to hear
what you think about maybe throw it in
the occasional tidbit that's a little
bit more geared towards that advanced
user I could see doing it maybe is like
a you know like a 55 minute kind of
quick segment maybe once a show so that
we don't you know so that it's not too
dull because we could get into the
terminal and we could start going at so
much stuff so it really depends on you
know I'd love to hear from more people
and see what you think live at category
five dot TV is my email address and that
would be great that looks like it for
this week if you'd like to submit a
viewer testimonial I just visit our
website category five dot TV click on
interact and submit a testimonial that
would be great okay so we've got lots
going on tonight I'm going to try to get
through I do have a handful of questions
that that have come in by email at live
at category 5 TV this week so I'm going
to hit those again I'm not able to join
you in the chat room tonight because
this is pre-recorded but the content is
new so stick around I've also got some
stuff to give away at the end of the
show so I've got one here from super
carrot hello super carrot this vision is
superb I can imagine says I really don't
get to watch your show live too often
but I saw that you were having problems
with scanners indeed I recall last week
I think that was Jim's question actually
so Jim listen up here's a here's
something from super carrot just for you
I've been there before so super carrot
the answer whether you're on linux
windows or mac is in fact a commercial
product called vuescan spelt vu e s CA n
it's better than the stuff that comes
with windows so I prefer it here's the
kicker right here Jim
it doesn't ask any silly questions it
comes with the drivers built-in and so
it just works and works really well it's
not free but it's a solid fix super
carrot thank you very much for the
comment i'm going to see if we can pull
that up vuescan here we go it's
interestingly it's Hamrick calm h.a.m
are i ck and there does vuescan as a
powerful easy-to-use program that scans
documents so it's just a scanning front
end but look at us it supports more than
1500 scanners I wonder if we could track
down what the scanner model was last
week now they've got a couple of builds
for linux so that's fantastic like the
looks of that let's see if they have a
compatible hardware list I don't see
anything right off the bat here but Jim
I would encourage you to oh look at this
on the support page there's a link to
supported scanners so I'm going to see
if I can find jim's email here from last
week where he says he's got the epson
perfection 3590 epson i'm going through
this
perfection 3590 here we go what does it
say vuescan support for epson perfection
3590 vuescan works with the epson
perfection on windows mac OS and gem
lenox reflective scanning yes film
scanning yes document feeder yes windows
mac and linux there it is that could be
your answer right there Jim super carrot
gotta hand it to you you're just proven
why the category 5 TV community is just
a fantastic thing to be involved in
thank you very much for that and Jim
please let us know if that is the
solution as far as purchasing that
software looks reasonable standard
edition lets you do the basic stuff 3995
there is a professional Edition which
also lets you scan to raw files lets you
use icc profiles and color spaces as
well as I t8 color calibration likely
you're not going to need any of those
things if you're just doing kind of home
scanning that one goes for 7995 so the
basic one standard edition 3995 from
Hamrick calm h am Ric k.com this is
category 5 technology TV i am your host
Robbie ferguson all by my lonesome
tonight as this is a pre-recorded
episode as i'm off finding out what we
need to do when our third baby comes
along gonna be exciting very exciting we
are due in november so we're coming down
to the wire so to speak baby's getting
big very exciting alright let's see what
else we got going on here we're about 12
minutes in ok gator man says looking for
something to boost or extend a wireless
network i want to go from one building
to another with a distance of
approximately 200 feet the building of
origin is brick the building of
destination is a portable
classroom example a manufactured home
haps I've done some research and most
solutions are heavily criticized by
users for not being effective at all the
operating system is of course linux it's
actually a boon to 10 point 0 4 with a
dual boot to XP I appreciate your
thoughts this is from gay or man Gator
man I hope I'm able to help thank you
for your question tonight and if you've
got a question for me just you can send
it in it live at category 5 TV so Gator
man the first thing that comes to mind
now I'm looking at it right now I can't
reach it and I don't have gone here
tonight to be able to run over and grab
something off my shelf for me but I do
have a 15 decibel signal booster antenna
which is smc connector so that you
basically unscrew the antenna from the
back of your router and you plug and you
screw in the smc connector for the
separate antenna the antenna has a vote
of five foot cable and then it has like
a almost like a satellite dish looking
thing that provides you a 15 decibel
signal boost wonderfully instead of that
I can see it from here you can't see it
as festival 802 11 signal booster I'm
just typing that in hoping that I find
something for you but that's essentially
what it's going to be called no that's
not the one that I'm looking for just
see if when I say smc I'm talking about
the the connector with the screw on type
so your your router has to have that
ability to unscrew the antenna most
these days do oh maybe I found it maybe
not no but hey there are lots out there
and this is you know version one of what
you could possibly do this one here
wireless network booster antenna it
looks like the same sort of idea but
this is a almost like a an FM style
antenna as opposed to the dish style
that I have but one of those works okay
those that might be the ones that you're
seeing that people may have positive or
negative
of results with I've used those they're
an economical solution very very cheap
you're going to spend anywhere around 50
bucks for an antenna like that and it
just replaces the the built-in antenna
on your on your Wi-Fi router it's
definitely going to give you a better
signal i guarantee you but it is
directional so unlike the antenna that's
built into your router that basically
provides the signal in an
omnidirectional kind of all over the
place style way so that the antenna is
the middle point and anything that
surrounds it bye-bye a circumference is
going to be receiving that signal
whereas one of these boosters quite
often are directional so you actually
have to point it at that portable in
order to be able to receive the signal
from that portable so so depending if
there's people who are accessing it from
within the brick building as well you
may need to have a dual antenna setup
you may have to have one for the
building the brick building 14 like set
it up maybe in a window and have it
pointed at the portable for example so
that the signal can get through you
don't want to have to try to go through
brick now if that doesn't work for you
that's the that's the economical like
really quick kind of way the first the
next thing the next up i would go to and
this is the professional step would be
to grab yourself an ingenious device and
let me see what we can come up with
ingenious is a brand that their devices
are designed to they're just fantastic
wireless devices and genius techcom
let's see what I can find for you they
do access points they do all different
kinds of stuff but in your case because
you're going outdoors you might want to
use an outdoor bridge so here's
something let's see weatherproof
products from ingenious again these are
these are kind of the comfort of the
commercial professional line of items
that you may want to look at something
like this will probably do well for you
long-range outdoor wireless client
bridge access point that operates
seamlessly in the 5 or 2.4 gigahertz
frequency spectrum provides high
bandwidth up to 54 megabits per second
and high transmit power and high receive
sensitivity
which extends the wireless so something
like that that's the EEOC 5611 p would
probably be ideal for you you'd have to
contact an ingenious seller I'm not sure
if you can actually buy off of their
website it's possible it looks like it's
just going to point you to a dealer so
use that website ingenious techcom and
and see what you come up with and if
you're totally stuck okay there's the
URL there sorry for the flicker we're
dealing with a I've switched over to the
laptop tonight as you can see it's full
wide screen so it does have other issues
that I didn't have before but ingenious
techcom just felt like that will get you
to that website and like I say if you
are stuck at that point if you really
can't get any further there you can't
find the device that's right for you pop
me an email okay Gator man live at
category 5 TV just to them as a
follow-up and I know some some gentlemen
actually who install outdoor wireless
networks as well as large-scale business
networks through Wi-Fi and I could
certainly see about getting them on the
show to discuss the use of range
extenders bridges access points that
kind of thing but I think ingenious is
probably the way to go as far as they
you know they have a vast range of
products they are not a sponsor the show
so when I say that I'm endorsing them
I'm saying it from the bottom of my
heart I mean it they're just a great
product and that would be if I was
installing a network that would be the
first place i would check okay so hope
that works out for you and i'll post a
link in the show notes for episode
number 156 to ingenious techcom all
right doing it all tonight watching the
the email is probably good thing that
I'm not live because if I was trying to
watch the chat room at the same time I
don't know if you that if you've ever
caught the chat room here at category 5
TV Eric was was talking to me last week
I was asking him you know how did you
enjoy yourself on category 5 TV Eric he
said yeah I had a lot of fun it was a
great time he thought it who thought it
was great so this is good maybe he'll
stick around but one of
things that he commented was that the
chat room is just like it's just flying
flying by now Eric doesn't use the chat
he's never used to chant learned before
as he said and will poke fun of them
about that next week okay make sure you
do and but a lot of people comment that
it's just it's impossible to keep up
with the show in one window in the chat
room in another because the chat room is
just go go go I don't know what it's
like tonight but some nights there we're
getting three or four messages per
second so keeping up with it is is wild
but it's a lot of fun especially if you
know if you are if you recognize my
shirt and you're one of those babies who
possibly was around when mirc was the
item you definitely want to get into our
IRC chat room check it out it's a lot of
fun you can find us our chat room is
available of course through our website
category 5 TV it's there
twenty-four/seven and it's active
through the week and over the past
several months we've been you know
monitoring the chat room and there are a
lot of conversations that go on even
during off air time so so I'd invite you
to become a part of those conversations
even if you want to sit in kind of like
a troll mode until conversation pipes up
or you see somebody come in and you want
to say hey but we encourage that through
the week as well but if you're not if
you're not able to get on through our
website category 5 TV and you have
interest in using an IRC client whatever
client you're using you can get on to
freenode dotnet that's irc.freenode.net
and then you can you can hop on over to
our channel which is simply category
five and we would love to see you there
and it would be our pleasure to have you
as a part of our community everything
here at category five dot TV is provided
for free we are funded by advertising
and we also we appreciate all the
donations that do come in here at
category 5 technology TV it's it's just
incredible that the you know we're able
to keep the show going and we're coming
up on our third-year anniversary next
week and it's so it's such a privilege
for me to be a part of such a great
community and it's
been so much fun over the past few years
so looking forward to year for as well
fantastic so all that said I am kind of
glad that I'm not here by myself trying
to keep up with the chat room as well
because it is madness madness everybody
flood and then my poor moderators are
trying to keep an eye on everything all
right we've got a couple more minutes
until until we hit the news so what I'm
going to do is I'm going to get started
on installing our application called
Hugin and last week we started talking
about doing panoramic imaging I did have
a problem with with the demo computer at
that time it's an older computer so this
week I've actually switched over to the
laptop in hopes that broadcasting from
the laptop is going to do a better job
for us I'm not sure because this is the
first time we've done it it's a little
different i'm actually looking down at a
computer screen here tonight so this
this guy right here but hopefully that's
going to work out for us hugin is a
fantastic application I've never had any
problems with it on a production
computer of course when we're working
with it in this kind of environment i'm
capturing what's happening on the screen
transmitting it through through 802 11
to my network and then into the
broadcast server which then rebroadcast
it to you so last week we had a couple
of problems this week I'm hoping not so
let's bring up a synaptic package
manager all we have to do is go into now
this is in ubuntu linux keep in mind
that hugin is available for Windows
Linux and Mac here on ubuntu all I want
to do is bring up system administration
synaptic package manager that's going to
give me my installer program my front
end for apt and i'm going to type in
hugin there goes and again i am very
sorry for that flicker I don't know what
it is but I will attempt to fix it okay
hugin I am marking you for installation
that tells me I you also need all this
other stuff your list will probably be a
lot longer than that I have a lot of
stuff installed so this is this is one
of the advantages to linux and i think i
mentioned it last week is that if a
program needs stuff in order to operate
it's going to automatically get it for
you off the internet it's going to
install it it's going to make it work
back in the olden days if you wanted to
install something you had to pop in the
CD and if it needed something you know
if you had a microsoft office for
example and you're working on it for two
years and then suddenly you go to open a
file format that you didn't happen to
install two years prior it's going to
say hey insert your disc we need to get
more stuff in order for that to work
with repositories we don't need to deal
with that kind of thing this this
application that synaptic package
manager is a front end for repositories
which basically means it's going to get
all this stuff that's required not only
do we need hugin but we also need infuse
you can do add a human tools so i will
mark those as well for installation and
it's fairly automated so we don't have
to worry about it i'm going to hit apply
and then once again apply when the list
is popped up and that's going to grab
all that stuff right off the internet
for me so that i don't have to go out
and find it that's the beauty of one of
the beauties the beauty one of the
beauties army of Linux changes are
applied successfully apply it all
changes you can now close this window
and we're good to go so hugin the
application that we need in order to
create panoramic imaging is now fully
installed ready to go I don't need to
reboot my computer I don't need to find
any disks I don't need to do anything
further if i click on now applications
i'll zoom in a little bit here
applications graphics you'll see hugin
batch processor and hugin panorama
creator and hit flickers that's not my
screen actually flickering i don't see
that that's just the the video capture
so we'll try to get that resolved for
next week apologies but hey okay so i'm
going to bring up hugin panorama creator
and here it goes there should be a lot
faster than than the computer we were
using last week i blow that up full
screen and i am going to click on load
images that I've got I've got some
images that I created last week when I
went out to to create my pan
so basically I stepped out with my
digital camera and I started snapping
some pictures right there at the spirit
judger that's Barry's waterfront by the
way there's one picture another picture
notice I'm just turning a little bit to
the left counterclockwise and I'm trying
to hold my camera in such a position
that it's that on its acts that its axis
is basically around the midpoint of the
lens of the camera so as I'm turning
that camera it's it's I'm not actually
turning my body like this okay I'm
instead turning the camera like this and
I'm trying to turn it in such a way that
it's on its axis so I don't have my
camera here with me tonight I should
have had it but so if this is if this is
my let's say this is my camera my bring
Tim and this is the lens the halfway
point of my lens is about the axis which
I want to be turning the camera on so
you take your first shot to the far
right move a little bit keep parts of
that image in the next shot so that when
you move this is the software will know
how to slice that all up or how to patch
that together how to seamlessly
integrate all of those photos together
and you keep doing that until you've
gotten about a 180-degree angle taken
with those photos if you go any further
than that then of course you're going to
start getting into the you're looking
behind you kind of thing so you're going
to get a little bit of distortion but
sometimes as I mentioned last week there
are cases where you want that for
example if I'm doing a full panoramic
360 and I'm going to use a tool to
actually animate that for example so
that it looks like a video camera or I
can control that with my mouse using
like a 360-degree JavaScript tool to to
display panoramics or if I want to
create a lightbox for comp is for
example so that when i when i zoom out
on my desktop with the cube i could spin
it and i could actually see my living
room you know the box is floating in my
living room I can do that kind of stuff
so here in hugin I've got I've got my
images
so these are the photos that I took that
day let's say let's actually bring them
up so that you can you can see what
these look like so there's photo number
one see how I'm turning just a little
bit to the left and there's always an
overlap because there has to have to be
points that are recognizable between
each of the photos now I'm back to
number one okay so one see the overlap
so you're basically just panning around
on the axis of your camera and then back
to number one so those are all the
images that I took so that is going to
be a 7 image panoramic image so in hugin
now i'm going to import all of those
images so i browse to the folder in a
single click on the first image okay
holding my left shift key and then
single click on the last image that's
going to highlight all because I've held
in my left shift key the other thing
that I could do and I was just testing
there just to make sure it works in this
in this function you could just single
click on any image and then hit ctrl a
which is your again select all so I've
done that and that works as well I'm
going to open and that's going to load
all of those images into hugin so now
lens type is going to be normal
rectilinear because most likely or
you're using the you know the idea here
is we're using a home digital camera and
let's see if I can do anything about
that that flicker it seems to only
happen when I'm zoomed so if i zoom out
you can't really read everything so I'm
gonna have to tell you let's see okay
normal rectilinear is the standard image
standard camera then you've got
panoramic cameras this is basically the
type of camera you're using a fisheye a
full-frame fisheye or an equal
rectangular I think gadget wisdom guru
just threw that in there just to see if
I could pronounce it so now that that is
in so I've got normal rectilinear that
is a standard camera okay standard
camera lens now i'm going to try doing
this automat
luckily by hitting the align button
that's going to create control points
based on software the software is going
to try to detect what pieces of those
photos match up and based on that
information it's going to try to create
your panorama for you doesn't always
work doesn't always work well but
tonight we're going to give it a try and
we're going to see if that's going to
work in this case and if not we're going
to proceed to try doing it manually as
well so in the meantime while that is
running we're going to jump over to the
category five dot TV news room where
automatic ink is sponsored the popular
open-source blogging and content
management platform WordPress has
transferred the software's trademark oh
look attack get out of my way there as
it was saying it transferred the
software's trademark to the WordPress
foundation the nonprofit dedicated and
the nonprofit dedicated to promoting and
ensuring access to WordPress and related
open source projects it's nearly unheard
of for a company to donate one of its
most valuable assets to a non-profit
foundation but automatic was founded in
2005 partly to enable its developers to
work on the open-source WordPress
project full-time the company has
figured out a way to remain profitable
and still contribute greatly to the open
source community as well as the majority
of the company work is available under
licenses such as the GPL of course the
category five dot TV news room website
is actually powered by the wordpress
platform you can download it for free
and give it a try yourself if you like
it's available for download at
wordpress.org or if you'd like if you
don't have a server you can also set up
your own free blog using the WordPress
software at wordpress.com Henry
paczynski principal scientists in the
wireless connectivity group at broadcom
corporation announced on Thursday that
the upcoming broadcom wireless driver
for 11 n chips is being released as a
fully open source Linux driver the
driver supports many of the current
broadcom
five chips including the BCM 4313 the
BCM 43 to 24 the BCM 43 to 25 and get
this there is also provided architecture
or framework for supporting additional
chips in the future if you've heard that
Wi-Fi is difficult to set up under Linux
you've probably been talking to somebody
with a broadcom chip but those
conversations will soon be a thing of
the past as laptop users especially will
be impacted by the open-source release
of I broadcom as the common Wi-Fi chips
used in notebook computers begin to
receive full driver support in Linux
directly out of the box this move by
broadcom to open sources drivers
effectively means that all major 802 11
wireless drivers have now been open
sourced and the trouble with Wi-Fi on
Linux is soon to be a distant memory
search engines have traditionally relied
on the user typing in a query and then
pressing either the search button with
their mouse or the enter key on their
keyboard a bit of Russian roulette
sometimes would then take take place and
the novice user hopes that the query
that they entered is going to turn up
the results that they're looking for
beginning this past Wednesday google
began rolling out their most recent
large-scale update to their search
engine and it is called Google Instant
with Google Instant which will in time
become part of the entire Google search
site architecture it's a use well a user
is presented with instantaneous search
results based on every keystroke it's
it's not like the old drop-down style
results which would show you what Google
thought that you were searching for
Google Instant in fact in fact displays
the actual results before you even press
Enter or press the Search button so in
some cases that this could mean that in
only two or three character presses you
actually get the results that you're
looking for instead of having to type
out the entire query and then press a
button so far the new feature affects
only the well actually it may be a
couple now but it does affect the
google.com main page but users who are
visiting from region specific sites such
as google.ca
for Canadian visitors you may have to
click on go to google.com at the bottom
of the search page in order to get those
new features until they're rolled out to
your search engine Mario Brothers
celebrating a birthday on September 13th
1985 has it been that long the nostalgia
nintendo released super mario bros a
game that we all played incessantly on
our 8-bit super nintendo Earthman just
the nintendo super nintendo what am i
thinkin 8 bits that's the actual of
graphics my shirt is the actual graphics
that was the 8-bit Nintendo
Entertainment System while the character
of Mario made his debut in Donkey Kong
you may remember he was at that time
only known as jump man when Nintendo
executives decided to place the
character in his own title the president
of Nintendo made a remark about the
likeness of the jumpman character to
their then landlord Mario sagal II the
name stuck and Mario was born in 1983
with his first release Mario's cement
factory the arcade game mario bros was
released that same year and then the
Famicom game console was released which
we all know by his later name of the
nintendo entertainment system or nes so
nintendo set out to create a game based
on their their arcade hit character
mario and super mario bros was released
to the japanese market on September 13th
25 years ago yesterday followed by North
America and actually the following fall
when they did the full launch for the
NES system the game went on to sell over
40 million copies making it one of the
most popular video games of all time and
so we salute Super Mario Bros or is it
like I don't know they're a huge part of
our gaming history and of course for
those of us old enough to have played a
day in and day out i plated with my
grandma brilliant times it's a huge
piece of nostalgia and brings back a lot
of memories happy birthday to Mario it's
our little tribute
the category five dot TV news room this
week also includes stories like Google
the walking navigation betta and street
view is now available for android check
it out the popular RSS aggregator
service bloglines is going to be
shutting its doors on october first and
hauppage and silicon dust announce
alliance for htpc cablecard tuners
they're working together hauppage is a
great name to be doing that so fantastic
now you get the full story as a category
5 TV / newsroom and of course the
category 5 TV news room is researched by
roy w Nash with contributions from
gadget wisdom guru Becca Ferguson and
our community of viewers if you've got a
new story that you think is worthy of
on-air mentioned please email news room
at category five dot TV this is category
5 technology TV you'll find us online
triple w category 5 TV and i'm your host
Robbie Ferguson it's great to have you
here and Boyle boys hyuga never messin
this up today gang I got a confession to
make I don't think the automated
assemblage of our photo is going to work
today I don't know what humans thinkin
we may be missing a component or
something like that because that is not
normal but that is that is art brilliant
let's see what we can do what I'm gonna
do trying to say you know what human I
don't like what you've done with my
photo here I'm sorry but that's pathetic
yeah that's terrible so what I'm gonna
do you know what I'm gonna say forget
this i'm gonna close Hugin all right I'm
just going to say you know what okay i
closed out in my preview and i'm going
to go new the panorama has changed would
you like to save the changes absolutely
not hugin you have failed me
there I'm going to load the images again
this doesn't take any time to redo okay
and let's hop on over we can look at
those images we can go to camera and
lens everything was just going to remain
the same normal rectilinear but what we
need to do is we need to go to control
points we're going to set up our own
control points so you'll notice the left
image is image number zero SNB whatever
okay image0 moving over to the right
it's also image0 so what I need to do is
I need to tell you again well okay we
need to line up image 0 on the left with
image one on the right so now here's my
first image which is 0 here's my second
image which is being called one okay so
now i need to start tuning that what
that means is i'm going to create some
control points on that image using hugin
so that it's able to align that image
much more effectively than previously
with the automated system so what I'm
going to do this is really quite nice
the way human works we want to find
stationary objects we want to find
things that are in both images that we
can point to that are not going to move
whatsoever we're not going to use a
person's head as a point of reference
because that's moving we're not going to
use a tree that's waving in the in the
wind we're gonna use stationary things
like demon head let's try it I'll click
on that section right there so it's
zoomed in on the demon head okay and now
over on this image I'm going to say well
that's roughly about there Hugin
automatically zooms in and determines
that that point is identical to that
point okay and it really is it's that's
pretty accurate this this photo on the
right is a little blurry this one's a
little bit more and more sharp more
sharp but there's one control point so
I'm going to add that I like that ad so
I've got my first control point which is
demon man head
I know that there's a story behind the
demon guy call on the demon guy that is
the spirit catcher it's some kind of
artistic work of art that has been there
for years since I was a little kid and
beyond that I don't know the history
supposedly it it catches anything thats
dark coming across the water into Barry
that's why Barry is such a peaceful
place anyways some form of art so I'm
going to grab another control point I'm
going to use the bottom of this flower
pot okay so see it zoomed in it's given
me a nice little close up so that I can
get a real good idea and then over here
let's grab that same flower pot in the
same point and just you don't have to be
exact because humans going to
auto-detect and it's going to say okay
that's what this point looks like so
compare it there's one there's another
okay that looks good i'm going to add it
so keep doing this and and do this in a
triangular kind of mode notice I've did
I did one at the top I've done one down
here and I'm doing this in such a way
that my control points are not on a flat
plane right there all over kind of the
place but what happens with the
automated system with that automated
detection is quite often it's going to
pick up things like clouds or moving
objects and it's going to say oh yeah
I'm going to use that person's head as a
control point and that is where
everything just falls apart because you
can't do that a cloud for example that's
moving in a windy sky that's not going
to work as a control point so automatic
doesn't always work for you so back at
our at our photo here I'm going to keep
going and this can be a time-consuming
process so you've clicked on another
point now over here click on that same
point and I'm basically what I'm doing
is I'm telling hugin at that point in
this photo is the same as that point in
this photo and therefore it can use
those points in order to line up my
image
okay got another one there grab this and
you can actually move that around if it
didn't get the right point okay there we
go there's one and oh that one's all you
see what happened there oh oh there it
is ok yes sorry it you can already
selected it automatically because what
happens is once hugin starts to get a
good idea for where your control points
are notice I didn't have to click that
second time it already knew and so
that's what's going to have to start to
happen because now hugin says oh yeah
okay I know what's going on here let's
for example grab the end here okay if I
click on that there it is ok I'll go
right to the end so it looks like that
now you'll notice that hugin has already
grabbed that same point over here
because now I officially have enough
control points that hugin says yeah I
know my way around this photo you don't
even have to keep going but the more
control points you have the more
reliable what I'm going to do just to
see what thing what human says I'm going
to click on the next image pair here and
then I'm going to go back one this
basically forces a bit of a refresh and
it shows me that I have five control
points it's green so hugin thinks okay
you've got five control points and I
have to keep going here so move on to
the next control set so here we go I'm
going to move on to the next set I just
clicked the right arrow up here at the
top right and I can start adding more
control points same photo see and
probably in many many cases I'm going to
be creating the exact same control
points because I'm going to be picking
the same stationary objects you want to
make sure that I grab the right one of
these to the base of the stairs I'm
going to click right there and there it
goes its selected it for me and I'm
going to click on ADD and I'm going to
keep going click there it seems in
automatically I drag that around to the
corner and it's all it's already said oh
I got it let's let's do demon head again
oh we can't because that doesn't exist
see that control point
exist in our right image so in that case
I can right click on that control point
that I tried to create see I've created
it there I can right click on it and it
goes away or alternatively I could have
just dragged it to somewhere that does
exist but I prefer to just recreate the
control point now it's going to create a
one there so I'm going to highlight that
and delete ok so how i did that i
highlighted it from this list and then
hit delete down at the bottom right that
gets rid of a control point that i don't
want to use so instead let's grab the
let's grab the end here of of the arm
okay and let's see if you can detected
it it did on the right image so now I
can add that and I like that and I'm
going to go forward one and backward one
to refresh and it shows that i have
three control points but human thinks
that it has enough information because
it's green and that's because it's
triangular but i tend to like to i'm
going to throw in a couple more control
points there just in case I'm just going
to get to the base here and yeah see
that ok what do you what do you notice
ok well now that is outside of the photo
so okay that's not fair let's try that
again I'd I'm going to delete that
control point because that doesn't fall
within the photo be careful of that
because you notice what I just did there
I clicked on a point on my left image
that doesn't exist on the right image
and so then there's going to be a
problem because Hugin is going to try to
detect a place and it's going to
completely skew your image is going to
completely mash it up so let's take a
look let's get you know one or two quick
more control points find another
stationary object I'm going to grab make
sure it's available in both I'm going to
grab this corner here okay so I've
grabbed this corner see what hugin says
it didn't grab it so we know that it's
it's not quite ready yet so there we go
I've got the corner in both images now
let's grab something up here top of the
stairs where it meets the the side and
that's too far because that does not
exist in my other photo I'm going to
grab
instead here and click no okay let's see
drag that up there and then hit fine
tune that's what I did there I moved the
right one from down here I moved it up
to about the same spot and then I hit
this fine tune button we're just going
to just find that exact spot as far as
auto-detection goes and then I can add
that so forward one backward 1 i've got
five control points still green we're
good to go let's give that a go I'm
going to grab same point I'm going to
grab that corner there okay and grab it
over here automatically lined up it
looks good so I'm going to add that
control point I still have the tip of
the wing here so I'm going to click on
it and it's good okay I'm going to grab
notice I'm not grabbing anything on the
horizon because trees things like that
can move subtly and because they're so
far away I'm not going to probably get
the same amount of consistency from
those let's see what I can get over here
I can still get the bottom of the stairs
there we go let's grab that looks good
and notice how hugin is already it's
detecting everything very very quickly
now because it's really getting familiar
with these photos it knows this way
around I grab the bottom of that and
notice it got that no problem so if I go
forward and back all day it's going to
say that it's green it's good to go yeah
five control points it's green next
photo we're getting there we're almost
at the end of our image and click into
that corner here corners are great
corners straight edges anything where
you've got something that is definite a
straight line if I grabbed a straight
point of that curb chances are i could
get the wrong control point because what
I see as the right point might there's
there's not enough detail in order to to
find the exact point whereas the edge of
this bench for example it's it's quite
easy to to see okay well here's the top
of the bench
so let's drag this over to where the
black part of the bench meets the brown
part and now on the other image it's
really really easy to see that okay
maybe one more control point just to be
just to be safe we're going to find
something I think I'm going to have to
go again with the with the bench because
I don't see any other possible control
points in this photo other than perhaps
we could go with the top right corner of
this flower pot let's see what that gave
us and that is fairly accurate that
looks perfect so let's see what what
hugin tells us if I go back and then
forward and notice that everything is
kind of in a straight line but I have
made sure that there's up and down left
down and up there is that kind of there
is that difference there and not only
width but height so I'm going to trust
that I've got five and we're going to go
with that I would probably have added a
couple more control points to that one
but because we are limited for time
we've got about nine minutes left of the
show tonight I'm going to try to get
through this and we're going to really
hope that hugin does a nice job of this
panorama there we go that looks good
grab a gain oh I can't Rab this because
it doesn't exist to my other image so
I'm going to get rid of that control
point I need to highlight number two and
delete okay I do see the top of this
garbage can in this photo so i can grab
that Oh some grabbing the corner because
that gives me a lot more detail than if
I went in the middle like that well
looks green it could be there it could
be there really hard to tell if I go
with the corner and notice I'm staying
inside I'm not going outside for the
corner because that's sky and sky is is
a variable we want to go in inside of a
static object fine tuned because I'd
move that a little bit and then add that
control point one more on the bench
there we go hugin is already detecting
the the points notice I'm grabbing a
piece of the trunk I'm not grabbing some
of the leaves because the leaves are no
doubt wrestling
the wind forward one back one and hugin
says I've got five control points it's
green we're good to go next up throw in
a couple more control points let's see
what happens here I think this is our
last set of images there we go at that I
don't have that corner anymore so I
can't go with that I still have the
garbage can in both images there we are
let's start using the fence it's another
static object that's not going to move
there we are I'm also going to grab the
bottom because I like high and low we
need to be somewhere that static
probably be safer to use the edge of the
garbage can here because this is looking
a little bit jumbled with grass and
stuff so I'm going to grab this little
rim of the garbage can there it is fine
tune it doesn't think that it's got it
but it does look like it does so that's
fine one more control point on the on
the bench that we are forward and back
control points I've got five and
everything looks good so I'm going to
jump over to let's see there we go
okay so I'm going to optimize that I'm
just kind of going through the list here
i'm going to optimize just using the
basic features see what happens it's
grabbing all the control points that I
made do I want to apply the changes yes
all I did was hit optimize now and now
let's see what what comes up so if I
click on preview panorama up at the top
there fingers are crossed that is
looking a lot better than what we were
seeing there before there there needs to
be some straightening done here
obviously this is where more control
points is going to be a good thing but
you'll see that the images are almost
lined up I want to straighten which
hopefully is going to do something for
me
and of course I wish that it had come
out absolutely perfect the first time
around because of the fact that we're
just about at a time I've got about five
minutes left of the show on I've still
got some prizes to give away so with
hugin you can see how this is working
you are going to be able to tweak your
settings with each of your with your
control points if you're not happy with
if the control points are not giving
good results you see that now it's
telling me that the control points are
not actually doing very well so I think
we may need to to riata mais that image
add a couple more control points let's
see now yeah everything else looks
pretty good stitching is using the
default settings will usually do a
pretty good job for you but everything
is about tweaking with with human but
I'll just say now I get some fantastic
results but usually when i'm working on
a on a panorama of professional scale
i'm going to take quite a bit of time
adding multiple control points tweaking
the optimization really getting it
cleaned up and then rendering it with
the with with ugen once it's rendered
let's see here what I can do we can go
into photometrics which is what crashed
our system last week and it's not
crashing it here but we do still need to
straighten out that image a little bit
so we'll need to fix that up but what
what I'll say is that with the short
amount of time that we have hard for me
to now straighten the images but humans
website is a fantastic resource it's not
just a website to get the software it's
also a resource of information the
documentation is fantastic there are a
lot of great tutorials at hugin hu GI n
dot sourceforge.net and when you're
there make sure you you browse through
some of the tutorials and I say that
absolutely honestly because this is its
vast the amount of information
available on humans website is
incredible and it's going to teach you
not only about using the software and
creating panoramas using hugin which is
available again for all major platforms
so even if you're not on Linux you can
get it for Windows or Mac but this
website not only provides the software
but the tutorials are going to really
help you to learn how to create
professional-looking panorama is using a
standard digital camera so you're able
to get a you're able to do a lot of neat
stuff so I recommend that you check that
out we're pretty much at a time tonight
so I want to tell you a little bit about
nanodots and nanodots you can find out
all about these guys i'm going to show
you these down here I haven't even
opened this yet I wanted to open this
with you here these gun pardon me are
super powered magnets and what's what's
kind of neat about them if you can say
that it's neat is that it's it's it's
like the old school days when when toys
didn't have batteries you didn't need
batteries to have a toy like that a game
or something that's you can have on your
desk to play with or whatever there's no
internet connection required with
nanodots and it's just a cool little
thing so I'm gonna I'm gonna see what
this thing looks like let's let's
actually open this up and I've got a few
of these to give away let's see oh there
we go pop here we go we got some
instructions here which no doubt is
going to show me some fancy fancy tricks
oh yeah things that I can create with
nanodots no batteries required now I
should say that if you have small
children in the house dogs pets that may
eat small things make sure that these
are absolutely nowhere to be found for
them magnets can be very very dangerous
when it comes to small children anyone
who may swallow them because magnets
will connect to each other within your
within your intestines so so Carrie
would say as the nurse that she is she
would tell me to tell you I guarantee
you so make sure that if you have kids
or in small animals that
for any animal that this does not see
them here we go fortunately floppies are
not an issue anymore there we go it
almost matches my shirt so the these are
literally holy cow they are super-strong
magnets but super cool you can do some
really really neat things and what I'm
going to do wow these are strong so yeah
I've never actually touched these I've
just kind of seeing the videos but these
are really kind of cool as my shirt as a
backdrop is probably wow just to give
you an idea so I'm going to pull up a
website here and I'll invite you to go
over to cat five dot TV / nanodots whoa
they're wild and on that website there
is everything from videos about how to
use them there are tutorials and the
kinds of things that these guys that
these people that are have been using
them for some time are able to do are
just absolutely incredible and you're
able to make some really interesting
things but it's fun and it's a neat
little thing so this is what I made
tonight how do you like that it's a push
it's of course but I would love to send
you a set of nanodots 216 nanodots to be
precise so what I'll get you to do is
visit cat five dot TV / nanodots and
when you're there make a note of the
toll-free number and i want you to email
that along with your email address your
name and your mailing address so that we
can send you one of these two nanodots
na n o do TS at category five dot TV so
that's all you have to do and over the
next three weeks we're going to be given
some of these away so check it out
nanodots cat5 TV / nanodots hope you
have a fantastic week don't forget next
week we are going to be celebrating our
third anniversary so there are going to
be some familiar and and wonderful
missed faces loved people here at the
studio so don't miss out make sure you
join us for episode number 157 of
category 5 TV next week and we will see
you will see you then have a wonderful
week and
I'll talk to you on tuesday night see ya
