alright so this is Owen and he's got his
teeny drone and now what can you tell me
about the T me dream um that um well
it's a drone yes sir um it's got a
really awesome controller charger and
some extra little wing too little lights
and stuff and the one thing that you
like about this team drone is that you
can actually use it inside the house
yeah yeah because it's not like Italy
breakable yes yeah so that way he
doesn't get a lost in a tree as he's
learning to fly as ping drilled and you
know the kids get a kick out of the fact
that you know it's just floating around
the house we had fun we kind of floated
up the stairs a couple days and so
injuring his TV German can I tell you
too funny stories about my teeny drone
not mine Dave well one he got tangled in
my hair oh and one you lost in a tree so
he's better now he's better now but
there you go so maybe make sure
everybody's hair is tied up yeah yeah
when I first got a teeny drone Sally you
remember that where I got it tangled in
your hair and that's exactly what
happened outside the 0 and jared is a
teeny drones liar as well and you got
tangled up in this to say about this so
it has common that's cool how how are
you at flying are you learning to it I'm
still trying to learn but and getting a
bit better at it ok yeah really doing
right he's done fun with it it looks
awesome you're weightless all right
thanks for bringing it in
[Music]
[Applause]
you
