so we have another treat for you guys um
so tell me about this game it's called
dead effective er so what's this game
about okay it's a first-person shooter
game it's being released very recently
on steaming in early access you get like
ten levels or all ready to play and it's
very good game as you see and you can
see you got a lot of enemies you got
also very heavy weaponry you have like
thirty weapons and each level you got to
upgrade them so it's very good also and
in two weeks we're planning actually
release the full version on Steam and it
will have the multiplayer and also mmm
it's like a person versus versus person
it's a VP yeah you know what I'm yeah
Phoebe so it's good and also do try
levels so you got done love it more
instead of hours more so it's good it's
great actually
that's that's amazing so as soon as you
said space I'm all-in like I love space
so this is an awesome game and you said
you had multiplayer so you can interact
with other players so you said there's
like a person person person mode right
yes definitely and I should probably
tell you something about this story but
it's great do you know a lot of these
games got that kind of story so it's a
like you are on monster in faster ships
which is heading to star and actually
the things got pretty bad there's
everyone so you just woke up fro from a
cryptic sleep and you found out that all
your colleagues turned into zombies
that's that is not good that is that is
not good yes and you have to fight
against these zombies and also against
the soldiers who actually are coming
from the earth to kill you because they
think that you are the enemy so yeah
it's a bit of a sticky situation than a
like it's lovely and you've got is
drones they're also the bad dogs
and yeah a lot of enemies but what's a
good thing you got really a lot of
weapons yeah you got like for shooting
you know I don't even know that is off
yeah and also different
is also like a bull with arrows swords
different type of source and upgrading
still upgrading right space
explosions multiplayer how can you say
no to a game like this that's just
absolutely fantastic what's your studio
name again bet fly interactive awesome
and this studio is actually very small
it's a small indie studio based in Czech
Republic really yep
wow that's awesome so you guys are on
Steam right now people watching can go
buy this right now for early access and
you can blow stuff up in space that is
absolutely fantastic do you do you have
any final words do you have any hints or
words of advice for people trying to
survive zombies in space ah yes let's
get on let's get on the board right yeah
thank you so much for all thank you so
much that that is some really cool stuff
now I have to go blow up some zombies so
I'll see you later bye but sorry got
that up
Oh
[Music]
[Applause]
