last week we go into the 1:1 ransomware
not a big deal still is a big deal that
fortunately we didn't really see another
evolution of it over the weekend from
what I've been told I mean we all know
about want to cry at this point you've
seen the episode episode number 504 if
you haven't yet please check it out we
had some great industry leaders on the
job to talk about this threat and what
it meant to - you know now we're in
general where is this thing going what
is happening with the evolution of
malware on the Internet and it's a big
deal because our antivirus doesn't stop
it because it's not a virus per se we're
stepping into a whole new realm here
we've been seeing this evolution take
place but now we're at a point where
it's wide scale its global and we need
to take it seriously so how do we keep
ourselves safe first of all what has
happened since our interview last week
with with our two guests and we have
seen ESET release a tool that will tell
you if your computer is susceptible to
the eternal blue NSA exploit so this is
the thing in Microsoft Windows that is
allowing one a cry to spread the NSA
created the software to use to spy on
individuals and it was released to the
general public and so now hackers can
use that code that was originally meant
for the government to be able to monitor
the goings-on on your computer well how
do we know whether we're whether that's
an open back door on our computer now
that it's an exploit that is being used
in the wild so ESET has released that go
to cat five dot TV / e be check you're
going to be able to find out more
information about that EB check stands
for eternal blue check of course so
check that out
download that if you're on Windows but
it does not tell you if you have Jesse
ransomware it you will we're susceptible
yes yes okay not even just want to cry
this is an exploit in Microsoft Windows
that want to cry is actively utilizing
in order to
bread itself right that's why Windows XP
is done because the come for a while
because people can't patch it so you
know they're not getting the regular
updates and everything like you do on
Windows 10 so if you have that problem
which you do it is not going to get
fixed automatically so you are
susceptible and that's why Windows XP
hospitals and things like that are
getting hit really really hard that's
why Russia is getting hit really really
hard because there's a lot of XP still
in operation there's a lot of pirated
versions of Microsoft Windows and so
they are not getting those updates so
along that vein we've got some great
news from Microsoft and this comes as a
bit of a surprise Microsoft has in fact
released the patches to the public for
legacy operating systems Wow so if
you're on Windows XP if you have an
enemy system if you've got Windows
Server 2003 or some other old operating
system for Microsoft that is generally
not receiving updates because it's
end-of-life or beyond right Microsoft
has realized hey this is a serious
enough concern we need to release these
patches for free to the public so you
can head on over to cat 5 dot TV slash
WC patch and that of course is it's
incredible on a cry patch cat you want
to think about it you know where where I
came up with URLs so cat 5 DB /wc patch
is for your legacy Microsoft Windows
stuff keep in mind Linux systems are not
susceptible to the wanna cry threat in
and of itself however if you have a
Linux server or Linux computers on your
network and you bring a Windows machine
that is susceptible to that threat into
your network now it can get into that
computer and it can propagate all your
network shares so it can it can damage
the files that are housed on a Linux
server Linux computer if you have
Windows machines that are susceptible to
this threat okay so it's a very serious
thing we've got to keep that in mind
can we look back at the episode where I
made an analogy about auto automobiles
and
the warranty right and c128 D really
called me on the fact that well you
didn't explain that very well and well
it was it was something as a live
broadcast and certainly a live interview
we come up with things we discuss things
and we talk about things we don't always
think to stop explain it in greater
detail Sasha could you read c128 B's
message for us and then I'm going to
read my my response to that as well just
to clarify things for you
so here we go the analogy of outdated
operating systems to out of warranty
automobiles is completely bogus out of
warranty and out of support are two
completely different scenarios a 20 year
old Ford Taurus is out of warranty but
is fully supported and properly
maintained absolutely no risk to the
driver I worked in the auto industry for
over 40 years started when I was six oh
wow so awesome so I have a better idea
about that than a lot of computer people
third-party vendors are still making
parts for older vehicles I've seen them
for vehicles that were made nearly 100
years ago that meet or even exceed OEM
specs Haim Shelton motor and others make
complete repair manuals
some even containing full electrical
schematics and certified diagnostic
programs and hardware are readily
available for just about any vehicle you
can imagine that makes maintaining an
old vehicle reliably and safely
relatively easy and cost-effective the
exact opposite is true with computer
software especially and OS it's
extremely rare that the third-party can
even come up with a reliable and safe
patch for an out of support OS okay I'm
Robbie so I appreciate your feedback
c128 d and anyone else who had the
thought and my comparison was not really
meant for the cars I was trying to give
an example of Microsoft Windows and
their approach Microsoft's approach to
the deprecation of Windows XP so if I
may I'm just going to read my response
for those who are thinking the same
thing or want to know how I responded to
that I said fair points
c128 d allow me to explain my intended
meaning behind the analogy my intent was
to express that we perhaps should
evaluate whether it is correct to put
blame or even place expectations on
Microsoft to further your 20 year old
Ford Taurus point what we're dealing
with here is different and the analogy
was not intended to be a one-to-one
comparison to vehicles imagine this
instead here's a scenario okay
Ford recalled every single replacement
part for the 20 year old Ford Taurus
model they made a big deal three or four
years ago saying do not drive a 20-year
old Ford Taurus it is not safe we have
deemed it unsafe we will no longer
support it and we will even give you a
brand-new shiny Ford for free so that
you will stop driving your old unsafe
one we must then imagine it's the
drivers fault if they say no my old
Taurus just runs and runs
I refuse to upgrade now this is a closer
mirror to Microsoft's position with
regards to XP so I do not feel that my
analogy is bogus as you say but perhaps
could have used more explanation and
there it is so I hope that that brings
some clarity to I you know why I was
using that particular analogy with
regards to warranty and automobiles and
I hope that that know what's going on it
so you know comment below we welcome you
to comment below share your thoughts and
make sure that you also you know if you
if you're not subscribed with an account
on YouTube you can also go to our
website category 5 TV click on contact
us send us an email however you like to
do it we'd love to hear from
[Music]
[Applause]
