hi and welcome back to new every day my
name is Carrie my name is dead and on
today's show we're going to be talking
about our privileged position so stay
tuned
[Music]
alright welcome back to new every day we
are going to jump right back in Jane
wrote you is here with us Jane thanks so
much for coming back on my cell again
we're so glad to have you and last week
we talked about your African adventure
so you and jen and some others went to
Ghana West Africa with our church family
to fill in the blanks they are done go
in in surveys and Lance see how we were
going to continue to partner with the
Ghana mission right okay and so last
week we talked about the series of
unfortunate events that happened to both
of you leading up to the trip and then
once you arrived in Ghana and we kind of
ended with this question this little
cliffhanger question that was well these
series of unfortunate events in our
lives you know and each of us have had
these events are they placed there in
our lives specifically by God in order
to create some kind of produce or fruit
in our lives or changes in some way or
make it more like Christ like are they
put there by him or is it actually the
enemy of our souls who is our adversary
creating these stumbling blocks in our
life mm-hmm and that is a great question
and that was something you know as we're
going through all of these Advent event
I kept thinking okay Lord is this a sign
I hate you saying no I don't want you to
go and now my yellow fever card in my
passport they were my right I think
sometimes we can blame the enemy or be
blamed God like for our own stupidity I
really could have like because mr. Ford
said like do you have your passport yes
I have my passport it's good to go oh it
wasn't good to go
I'm used to looking after that he was a
very gracious to look at that and then
the yellow fever like he had told he had
emailed us two to three months in
advance and he had kept asking me do you
have it I'm like no problem right so God
really did show up so even though I can
say well how this is such a series of
unfortunate events really it was I
caused them all to happen to myself
nowadays in situation on the other hand
I had nothing to do with trip right
right the ice storm had nothing to do
with either one of us the breaking down
of the air conditioner had nothing to do
with us and so when you ask you know is
this God or is it the enemy I think it
really comes down to that the spirit of
the Living God inside of you and what is
what is it saying is it kind of like I
want to say constricting like unique
stop doing what you're doing or is it
you have this internal sense of peace
eventually like everything's going to be
okay okay and holy I just called the
spirit of discernment and it's really
interesting because I was Jay and I were
talking about that question she talked
while she had her own insight as to
where that discerning can come from okay
what do you mean by that so I was
talking in terms of spiritual gifts so
when we're in community we will each
receive a different spiritual gift but
collectively we will get the whole
answer from the Holy Spirit so when
you're in community with a body of
believers I believe that I can look at
something and my lens says oh this is
the enemy you know trying to stop me but
if you're in community with me and your
spirit is at peace so then what does
that say how can the enemy how can I
believe that it's the enemy but you're
receiving a different response but if
we're if we are discerning properly and
listening properly to the Holy Spirit
then we will be receiving the same
sir so there will be that sense of peace
so you can't rely just on your your own
understanding of the situation you have
to be relying on other people that
you're in community with who are
believers to be affirming what you are
going through because their scriptures
the Bible has references to both
situations where it is the enemy and
also situations where God has
orchestrated a series of unfortunate
events so there's scripture to support
both aspects of the question I don't
believe that you can look at anything
and say every single time this is the
enemy or every single time this is God
orchestrating you have to you have to be
in right relationship with God and be
constantly checking in with him and
listening to what other people are
saying about it other people that you're
in close relationship with not just
other people right other people that
you're in close relationship with yeah
and I know in Proverbs it says that
there's wisdom and getting advice from
many counselors but you don't act in
isolation or make decisions in isolation
that their benefit and ruining the
insight from other people and making
decision so I can get that I think I
wrestle with a feeling do you know what
I mean like whether it feels peaceful or
whether I feel tense about something
because then is my tension just actually
anxiety and we're not supposed to be
anxious about anything and so that's
where I would I feel the need for
something a little bit more solid which
may come from someone else in the church
family showing you know a scripture that
says you know I'm just kind of reaching
out and saying how I might interpret
that you know yeah well it wasn't there
section of scripture that someone
brought it to Jesus attention that a
tower had fallen on some believers yeah
in an area yes and they said well why
did this happen to them were they more
sinful than other people why did this
unfortunate event happen to them yes yes
that did happen in the bottle haha you
might have to do your magic there was
that but there was also the situation
where was it a paralyzed man or a man
flying line born blind and and they
asked was it sin yeah and then this
manner his parents and Jesus did not
neither this is so that God may be
glorified yeah right and so it's a very
you ask I think one of the major
questions that people ask all the time
how do I know God wants me to go and I
how do I know God doesn't want me to go
like how do we know yeah I am totally
agree with what James said we had a
situation at our church just this past
weekend where we needed to make a
decision like I'm a major decision and I
just kept saying lord please unify us
magnify it and what was interesting is
he totally unified us like as we talked
to the different people involved it was
like the same kind of answer from every
single person just with such a diverse
group that's really an amazing thing and
that's in altitude when you're trying to
discern is it of Godderz at the enemy
make sure you have a diverse group that
you're talking to that people that
aren't just the same like-minded let men
right but have people who think
differently about God or experience God
differently like don't just have I'm
going to talk to the intercessors I'm
going to just intercessors pay for
people what about the person who
faithfully shows up who faithfully does
their devotions that sits in the back
corner every Sunday morning but you know
I know God they just don't interactive
out the same way interesting right so
it's so important to have a wide
spectrum of Christians because that is
the body of Christ Ryan it's everybody
pulling it and so it's interesting when
you have
this decision that so and with a wide
variety of people from the wide variety
of backgrounds and ages that all said
the same thing and we just sort of came
away with that going god you're so
faithful yeah so you cannot make these
decisions in vacuum right like that's
why it's so important to be involved in
a church like have a prayer partner to
have a mentor to meet in a small group
so that when you have these questions
that you come up and would you pray
about this or would you help me sort
this out this is what I am experiencing
yeah and and you know I go back to
reboom right where he didn't like what
the older people said so you would have
a younger people and it's like know
which was bad advice hey I'm not gonna
be had that circle of motor and younger
more experienced rustics death
experience and get the full council of
God that's good I think also our
position within a certain context within
a certain church organization within a
certain culture and country can affect
how we interpret different circumstances
and who we seek for advice yes so just
kind of with that thought we're going to
pause and have a commercial break and
we're going to be right back Jeff Weston
Yemen you're building a brand new
beautiful website what
are you all right you're a terrible
actor what that's where acting comes
into play oh I don't know where are they
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website it's true how much hard
drive space you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cap five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roof of your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat five dot TV /
dreamhost still competitive papers on it
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're going to
find five dollars and change per month
go to cat five dot TV / dreamhost
welcome back to new every day we have a
special guests Jane wrote with us and
we're jumping back into our discussion
about their African adventure and we
left talking about how well if
unfortunate events happen to certain
people does that mean that is a sign
from God but something's bad or are they
less privileged because something
happens or they and they are they more
sinful or is this set up by the enemy
like you guys kind of shared about the
decision-making process and we did find
the verse referring to the Tower of
Siloam where it's in Luke chapter 13 at
first one there were present at that
season some who told him Jesus about the
Galileans whose blood pilate had mingled
with their sacrifices and jesus answered
and said to them do you suppose that
these Galileans were worse sinners than
all the other
gala lands because they suffered such
things I tell you no but unless you
repent you all likewise will perish or
those 18 on whom the Tower of Siloam
fell and killed them do you think that
they were worse sinners than all other
men who dwells in Jerusalem I tell you
no but unless you repent you will all
likewise perish so I'm curious to hear
your thoughts about that and how that
might relate to your experience in
Africa typically an underprivileged area
compared to the west and you asked a
good question can you read this anything
well because that bad thing happened to
them does that mean it were sinful okay
and we have this perception in the West
that Africa needs our help then Health
America needs our help that all these
third world countries nations need our
help we are so good mm-hmm and if we
could just get in there bring our money
and our expertise and you know teach
them how to do things right to somehow
to dismantle teach them how to do you
know how to do agriculture and education
and how to do this everything will be
just fine because I ain't no right so
it's very easy to go in with that kind
of better than you how'd you like we've
got it all together mm-hmm and what's
interesting is that you get there and
they're doing church they're doing
family they're doing life those people
are laughing and enjoying life together
their culture so rich and vibrant and
there is it it was so a lot of a mind
blowing cuz we're like okay we're going
to go and figure out how we can help and
we can relate or going okay
so wow they actually know how to take
care of family they actually know how to
do church maybe even better maybe even
better and so it really so in the areas
that we thought we could help the room
God is like that's not why ecology to do
to go and change what they're doing I
want you to figure out some other I want
you to trust me and how your to help
rather than Oh be sure going to
discipleship or evangelism well
superintendent almond 130 church
planters he wants to train in the coming
year 30 30 30 and he has a program for
it and he has a probe report for we go
baby go Cyril ship and he's like well
actually yes buy the league does this
look at this and this oh ok ok and and
when we talk about family I don't
remember his name but the pig farmer yes
I can't remember saying you can't
remember his name but will he what we
can tell you about the pig farmer is he
has 15 adopted children and that pig
farm is sustaining that whole family so
that's how they do family when we think
about Ahmed he has six children three
that were born of his wife and three
that he has brought into his family to
raise as his own so when we think about
family that's how they do family there
are lots of evidences of of that those
are just two examples but it is very
common but they they do a good job at
family yes and that was interesting end
and superintendent almond is this
wonderful job of mentoring mhm and
pouring his life into the lives of young
men and women and you started to step
back and go okay so maybe I'm here
because of what they can be teaching
mm-hmm and it's when we talk about a
privileged position you know we can we
can say oh but we were born in Canada
and it's just so much better than africa
and all Africans should want to be
Canadian or American and what's
interesting I just finished reading this
book called the number one ladies
detective agency okay specifically about
a woman detective in Botswana oh and so
it's very entertaining and so it's
African it's written i believe by an
African but what she said she liked I
have no desire to be American because in
their perception that you know the West
so she has no desire to be Canadian or
American she wants to be African and
she's happy to be African game and were
there and were watching this very rich
culture and I even had a conversation
with a woman today who says I from
Africa like I dance like it we're born
to dance and I'm being oh she did not
did his half here we go but I'm aside
like her shoulders and yet I want and
like committee around the stewpot does
like we notice that like when they made
meals for us it was community there they
are around the top working together
remaining together cooking together
talking together and you know I think we
go we're going okay like what can we do
to help amor we have all this money and
the money was a blessing you know that
what we learn from them about community
and generosity and the family and I went
right into our innermost being length
okay maybe I need to
differently no I'm not all that and a
bag of chips right you know being
Canadian being privileged isn't you know
it's it really is a mindset or a heart
set right I remember going to Vietnam
and seeing this little boy you know on
the back of a water buffalo and just or
on his bike and he he seemed happy in
contention in my head he doesn't shoes
he doesn't have a shirt he doesn't say
it is intense and he was happy so in
that sense how do you think what we
value shapes what we invest in like Jane
you work in investment all the time w I
think that one of our I'm their
financial advisor with one of our one of
a major bank in Canada and you know the
Bible talks about where you store your
treasures and so when what we value I
believe just generally speaking in North
America what we value is much more
temporal how can we value financial
security right for example more than we
value relationship and I don't have any
kind of all true I don't think I'm
generalizing I don't like they are you
know that the clients that I see and the
concern they have so often is over
finances and having enough and do I have
enough and what do I need to do to have
enough and it's all about care and and
even you know you know statements like
well I've worked X number of years and
now I'm going to retire and the rest of
my life is for me so it's very much a me
focused okay culture that we live in we
are very inward focused and we had
commented on that when we were in Ghana
that what we were giving financially was
from our overflow yes it was not it
didn't cost
us anything to give what we gave and so
it has really made me think do I really
have a good understanding of giving with
cost where it's going to cost me because
when we think in terms when I think
about tithing like God has I still have
enough right so does that mean I should
be tithing more I should be increasing
my tithe like should I be giving with
costs because do I really know what it
means to give with a cost and I don't
think I do like I truly don't think I do
yeah so I think we're going to push pop
here again you're like doing it again
haha we do want you to think though over
the next week what are our values that
is North Americans what are your values
as a believer maybe you're watching the
show and you haven't met Jesus yet you
aren't following him as as Lord and
Savior so what is it that you value and
next week we're going to come back and
we're going to talk about some of the
things that we saw our Africa our
African friends value and how they seem
so completely different to ours hello
Wow yes lots to think about even now I'm
already thinking about so many questions
and so many encounters I've had with
with similar topics that we've already
discussed so let's just close in prayer
together I'll pray and then we'll find
off lord thank you so much for the
privileged position that we have in
Christ that we are all one family and
that you're our Father your dad now your
grace has covered our sin we can come to
you no matter which country we live in
no matter how much money we have no
matter what we've done in our past
and you can give us a new beginning I
thank you for that Lord would you help
us this week to have eyes and ears open
for what you would teach us about how to
love you and to love others more than
this oil as we pray this in Jesus thank
you so much for tuning in and we sure
look forward to continuing this
continuing this discussion next week
with stain and gin so stay tuned and
we'll penis
I
Oh
