welcome to category five technology TV
it's episode number 507 for Wednesday
the 7th of June 2017 nice to see I'm
Robby Ferguson and tonight we've got a
great show planned for you we've
received a bunch of your questions and
comments we're going to be hitting those
near the end of the show so make sure
you stick around we've also got tech
news with Sasha tomatoes she's gonna be
telling us about what's coming up and we
are going to be learning how to use a
device in order to determine the amount
of electricity being consumed by the
appliances in our home or our workplace
and I'm shocked to find what device in
my house is wasting hundreds and
hundreds of dollars you want to know the
same to stick around better here's
what's coming up in the category 5 TV
newsroom Microsoft will pay you to do
your web searching through Bing Toyota's
latest infotainment system is powered by
Linux Apple is bringing AR and VR to
their devices and scientific researchers
have confirmed a part of Einstein's
general theory of relativity that
Einstein himself said would never be
observed stick around the full details
are coming up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV our
live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs and rain that was amazing
monitor radio well that was really good
to radio that was actually really good
ok thanks guys dropped it down and now
let's talk about our be very blunt
yeah category 5 TV streams live with
Telestream Wirecast and nimble streamer
tune in live every week on roku cody and
other HLS video players for local show
times visit category 5 TB
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 GB flash PPN and the International
Association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash
a IB welcome to the show I'm Ravi
Ferguson tell me welcome Sasha termina
hello and Henry Bailey brown puddles
over on my left your right
hey everybody hope you're having a great
week by the way debian stretch is going
stable the newest latest greatest linux
distro from debian yeah that's coming
out on june 17th now I hope that you can
join us for our release celebration
which takes place the following
Wednesday that's the 21st if you'd like
to be here in studio with us at our
berry studio D that's been very Ontario
just about what an hour north of Toronto
at an hour you can get free tickets by
going to our website category five dot
TV and click on tickets
that's exciting we have a live audience
and you can wave at you during breaks
and stuff more point namely tensor hey
there's a little boo
hey so boo well there's an airport near
berry so they wherever they are around
the world they can fly in and there you
go no there you take actually an airport
in aura which is like that's what I'm
talking about yeah this is okay so Oro
is a very very small like is it even a
village to handle it technically the
airport would be like for for private
sessions and things like the little
gliders man I can go like all into
another airport manager to actually have
our camera there but it's like our
Georgian which is like a sub airline of
Erica I'm not going to get a 747 in
there no but I'm getting love a chain
there for air shows no matter where you
live in the world if you're watching the
show now you can get here and we expect
it but there's only room for ten yeah
it's gonna be a lot of fun we love
debian and just so you know boon to is a
derivative or an offshoot of debian so
it's actually based on debian a lot of
other distros are too like linux mint
pc linux OS
what other ones alimentary raspbian like
that raspbian of course yeah just hey I
got one out and half Ian yeah exactly
all right it's time for our new feature
cool upcoming tech this week we are
looking at the smart air lamp in 2015
the first ever floating light bulb
succeeded in its Kickstarter campaign
but the original had a few issues first
of all the original floating light bulb
it had a bit of a difficulty finding the
right floating point with the smart air
lamp however the levitating light lifts
itself off from its base eliminating the
original difficulty the original
floating light bulb was not very bright
but smart air lamp is three times as
bright making it not only a cool
centerpiece but also a functional lamp a
smart air air lamp is also wireless so
you don't have our cable going into it
like its predecessor but it also has two
USB charge ports so that's cool it has
little power going into it you can
charge your smart devices as well when
the battery does run out the floating
lamp will gently land itself and the
light turns off smart air lamp needs our
help so that they can manufacture the
next generation of floating lights all
you have to do is go to cat5 dot TV
slash light to check out the new
Kickstarter campaign and pre-order your
smart air lamp today alright folks we've
got a fantastic show planned for you
tonight we're going to be looking at
electricity and how we can monitor the
usage of our appliances and various
devices throughout our household or
business and we're going to learn how to
evaluate the cost of running these
devices
Henry sash of what devices would you say
in your house would use the most
electricity my computer the most yeah
probably my TV I your TV I think so like
the most as far as phantom load or the
most as far as like what yeah there is
right power as well where if it's off
it's still seeping right y'all Empire I
like I I'm crazy about that so I unplug
everything after I used a one oh so but
I don't unplug my TV okay right so I
think that it probably my TV everything
else
always plugged in on my fridge so
fridges maybe my friends I'm afraid
you're my TV well I've got you know we
are a family of five I've got a an
upright freezer in the basement I've got
a full-sized fridge in the in the yeah
I've got all kinds of those kinds of
high drain devices and the central air
and all that kind of stuff as well so
Nast is really helping us to cut down on
our our costs with the air conditioning
and the heating and it's working it
really is working well and we're
starting to see an impact there and
that's because nest gives us monthly
reports to show us how our usage is
doing so I've had now with the
transition from winter to spring and now
the kind of summer weather we have just
left everything turned off and so it's
really cool seeing our nest report come
in saying we've used no energy Wow
furnace and AC that's super cool it's
like our game in real life if that's
what you're doing it's like playing a
game in real life kinda is and when you
know this information this is a
thermostat a smart thermostat and it's
cool because I can bring it up on my
phone and I can see it from anywhere and
all this kind of stuff right so so but
when we know this information when we
know how our usage is affecting our
electricity bill it can really really
help us to control our usage make some
decisions so that we can cut down on the
cost here in Ontario Canada energy bills
as you probably have heard through your
local news source are through the roof
yes it's ridiculous it's pretty bad so
we set out to say okay how can we figure
out what appliances in our house are
draining our electricity and costing us
money
so we're not really thinking too much
today about phantom power we're thinking
more about you know what devices in the
house are really costing me money on an
ongoing basis right realistically the
trickle of a vampire power source might
be a couple of cents a month if that I
might and so much more but yeah not the
first thing that I did was I measured
the light bulbs in my kitchen okay
because we have under cabinet lights
right and I thought well this would be a
good place to start so I did it and it
was costing like 70 cents a month or
maybe forty eight sensors
something something so negligible that I
didn't even really I didn't write it
down okay I don't say au revoir so how
did I do that and what is involved in
doing that well we've got a product this
the one that we're reviewing tonight the
one that we're looking at is branded as
Rio R and so you know it's probably
something that's let's see I'm guessing
it's like a China build kind of thing
because you find it you know if you go
to Amazon CA at Rio R and if you go to
dot-com it's a different brand I got the
same product you know these products
where they rebrand all the time
but the product itself is awesome have
you ever heard of kilowatt kilowatt is
very very similar to this but I'm gonna
tell you what's different first of all
both this and the kilowatt you plug this
into your outlet let's pull it out so
that I can show you too bad we don't
have a zoom this week oh my googa I do I
have an overhead camera oh you want to
see it okay so as simple as it is it's
just a device like this you plug this
into your wall and you plug your device
into this so the kilowatt this is
probably the most popular model of
something like this okay it's like a
power meter the kilowatt loses the
memory as soon as you unplug it oh it
doesn't have a built in battery or built
in it doesn't remember of this stuff so
when you plug this into your fridge and
you leave it plugged in for an hour 10
hours or whatever you want to measure
when you unrealistic volt built-in
rechargeable battery makes a lot more
sense because then I can get in behind
the fridge where I'm like going like
yeah I can unplug it and then I can pull
it out and look at the meter right and
not lose everything yeah
so the cheap device you get it a cat
five dot TV slash energy and there
you'll see that it's available on
amazon.com Amazon CA through our links
but also Amazon co uk so you see this is
a 120 volt the dot co uk version is 230
to 250 so it'll work fine with your
appliances you're crazy appliances
yeah okay so first of all I plugged it
in as I said to my lamps they didn't
really generate any they didn't use any
energy to write home about so I've
started going around the house to
various devices right and we're going to
look at how those devices performed if
you will what kind of money they cost me
on an ongoing basis and then we'll look
at how the device works before we get
into that though I want to refer to an
email that we received from orange man
as we're looking at our power
consumption and the cost of power
consumption maybe Sasha if you could
read orange man's email and thank you
for contacting us I'd love to okay so
orange man says a few weeks ago we had a
knock on the door it was an electricity
board engineer here to change our old
meter to a digital one when he finished
the job I asked him what would happen to
the old meter and he told me they put in
a big pile and they're left to rest so I
asked if I could keep it instead and he
let me so with the help of my friend
Mervyn who is an electrician I wired it
up to my Linux servers and now measure
the amount of Watts used per hour
turns out the server's only used 80
watts an hour when I land at 181 I'm
using them
as a sidenote Mervin has since suffered
a heart attack but is recovering well
our thoughts are with him and his family
we're not all as handy as Mervyn and
orange man I'm not and even you know
being the mathematical genius that you
have to be to say okay how much is a
kilowatt hour how many watts are working
into this equation and and you look at
videos on YouTube and some fsor with a
chalkboard has got his equation up in
that wall very the listen yeah it can
get complicated so here's another
advantage to this particular product
from cat5 TV slash energy not to sound
like a sales pitch this is not slap job
this is just I want you to know where
you can get the proper product because
there are tons that look very very
similar ok ok so one of the advantages
is that this has a button right here a
button cost ah so we can actually figure
out in the device how much our
electricity usage is costing us well
ideal uh-huh
so first of all I plugged it into my
freezer at home we've got the upright
freezer and it was using energy but not
a whole lot okay then plugged it into my
fridge because we thought hey maybe our
fridge is not very efficient it came
with the house and it's not you know
it's not in the best of shape and so
after running it so what I did is I
plugged it in and first of all we need
to know the cost per kilowatt hour right
how can this thing figure out how much
the electricity cost if it doesn't know
our overall like what is the government
charging us magic yeah that's like Bob
just like that it knows so I pulled out
our power Stream bill and this bill has
our breakdown for the month and next to
our electricity usage you see the
kilowatt hour cost which is 18 cents per
kilowatt hour here in Ontario so we also
have off-peak hours and things like that
you want to know how much it cost
off-peak then you can factor that in as
well okay but for the sake of my knowing
how much this is costing me I really
want to use here's here's what it's
realistically call me I don't get a
scenario worst-case scenario something
like a fridge it's running on peak and
off-peak so you might have yes so on
peak is 18 cents per hour per kilowatt
hour versus 13 cents during winter mid
peak and I guess it's going to fluctuate
it's going to change yeah you're there
so how do we do this okay
so first of all this device we just
simply need to tell it I got to figure
out all my buttons here I got so many
but so many buttons so many buttons okay
so now do keep in mind this is not
plugged in but because of that built-in
battery it does have all of the
information loaded and it'll information
we're going to come up to but if I push
the cost button you can see I've set
that to my 18 cents to configure that
I'm just going to hold my cost button
down and it will start flashing let's
see there we go so now press function
and you can navigate function again to
move because we're not into the dollar
we're into one so I can go
down for 0 up for one and then hit
function again to get to the 8 and I can
change that accordingly so it's very
very accurate to live my bill because
I'm setting the kilowatt cost the
government is charging me so my fridge
the the math came through after so what
I did is I ran it for 54 minutes and 20
seconds on on my fridge ok I went and
watched a show with my wife and then
came back and unplugged it and because
it's got the battery I could do that
it's great so it shows us the low was
11.1 watts the high was 794 point four
so not terrible less than a computer
that's got the hour behind it but in 54
minutes and 20 seconds
it cost me two cents Oh two cents two
cents in it okay in about an hour so to
send out an hour to result rate to
refrigerate it to a cue cold it's not a
lot of money so 48 cents a day right
it's not it's not much a for any cents a
day that's it so factor that into the
month let's grab a calculator here so
that we can start doing some actual math
okay so we've got a sixty divided by
fifty four point two because that's
approximately how long
54 yeah 20 seconds is not actually point
to but it's close enough so that's one
point one hence and change so multiply
that by my cost will give me the hourly
so point O two so my hourly cost is
about two point two cents so if we take
that and multiply that by a day so 24
hours 24 is about 53 cents per day okay
okay so not anything to write home about
multiply that by you know say 31 for a
month it's costing me anywhere between
about fifteen to sixteen dollars $16.50
per month to have my fridge running
that's worth it it's absolutely real
food
now now I know now I know my fridge is
actually not costing me a whole lot of
money so when I get that 180 dollar
electricity bill my fridge is not really
a huge part of that
so resting now my unit only plugs into
110 120 outlets so I can't plug this
into like my washing machine that's 240
oh my god so there are other devices in
order to do that but for this one I can
only do the appliances to plug into a
standard 110 120 mm Wow
so next up okay what else do I have in
my house that's possibly using some
electricity hair dryer set it know start
the hairdryer you're only using for a
few minutes I'm to turn off right star
gazers lecture my Stargate get here like
she likes your computer to computer
computers I got like this sucker my
unread server is is oh pretty big it's
got I think 8 or 9 hard drives in it oh
my gosh okay it's got two Xeon
processors oh no how I just ah two great
big honkin intel fan chassis you don't
need to like have a heater at your house
you just get your like computer like
your raid setup just to heat your house
for you you don't even know the half of
it it's a it's in a rough in in our
basement and in that rough in it is
significantly warmer than the rest of
the house absolutely so it's like a
sauna room that's how hot it is I'm so
interested I run two servers at home one
of them is our our own raid server which
is our file storage all of our family
photos and family stuff plus all of the
category 5 backups go there because it's
off-site from the studio yeah that's a
lot of space so that's why we need so
many hard drives then we have a game
server for the kids to play on as well
so they can connect and do LAN LAN games
and stuff yeah with their friends at the
house so those two systems are running
and I plugged this in oh and this is
where you know this is the disclaimer
sweetheart if you're watching I want you
to turn off the show Oh No
I don't want you to see what this is
costing us hide the dog yeah I think I
found it
and this is this is where this device is
amazing I would never know I know that
my computer's probably using a lot of
energy yeah I didn't know it was this
bad
uh-uh okay so I've still got the memory
in here from before when I left and you
see 71 cents is the cost at 18 cents how
long was it running I turned it on this
morning and unplugged it when I got when
I came to the studio 8 hours and 30
minutes eight hours in 30 minutes
ha okay let's see the cost of that gonna
be a little bit more expensive this is a
refrigerator a little bit okay so eight
hours and 29 minutes let's say that so
that's eight and a half hours 8.5 hours
is 0.71 so 24 hours divided by eight
point five is the equivalent of 2.8 -
what would be the math of this so 71
cents for every eight point two nine
hours so eight point two nine divided by
couldn't you could you divide 71 by the
point two nine to get the cost one hour
and then times if I 70 was so 71 cents
point seven one I hate doing the hassle
I hate doing math also but knowing the
cost of one hour you divide the amount
by the yeah so eight point two nine yeah
dot seven 1/8 point to 90 yeah I think
so zero point eight cents per hour so if
I let's try it and then times a pill
eight cents per hour so take eight cents
times eight point two nine so eight
point five and that is 68 cents so very
very close yeah all right you're right
that's right I said so it's about
we'll say 0.08 5 cents per hour times
2400 one day the reaction configure yeah
okay
servers costing me about two dollars and
four cents per day that's right 962
cents a month no 63 dollars 24 cents
come on so SAS was right with the math
did you see how we did that we took the
cost so 0.71 so 71 cents zero point
seven one divided by the time as given
in that in ours so we'll go eight point
two nine to make it perfectly accurate
so that's zero point zero eight five six
four blah blah times so that's per hour
24 for 24 hours so the actual real value
without any rounding or anything is that
two dollars and six cents okay
multiply that by 31 because there's 31
days in a month and that server is
costing me sixty three dollars and
seventy two cents per month right to run
it oh that's this device cost less than
half of that and immediately she is
going to knock my electricity bill way
down because guess what's going to
happen is I'm going to start turning off
my server when it's not in use or coming
off of some other solution maybe
reducing the number of hard drives in
there because that's using a lot of
electricity right so immediately this
has saved me more than the value of the
device already yeah just like that
and I found one thing in my house that
is bringing up my monthly amount to buy
more than sixty dollars so here we've
got bimonthly billing
that's a hundred and twenty dollars per
bill Wow
that and remember I said the bill was
180
cranky you could get some solar panels
on your app or something that is a
significant folks that is reality it is
that's from two computers running so and
albeit one of them is a server and it's
it's a power hog forever still like how
many families out there have like two or
three computers exactly you have all
these computers all hooked up you go you
know everything else you've got anything
and we tend to keep old stuff like oh we
don't we don't you know for the for the
kids playroom we're just going to keep
that old TV because we don't want to you
know why bother spending the hundred and
twenty dollars and replace it with a
flat screen or satellite right and then
while it's costing you that II so the
only way to really know is to have
something like this or to have the
genius to be able to do what orange man
did but hey this one I can just take and
plug in and it gives me the actual cost
well yeah it's just amazed when you can
find out everything I didn't even
realize I could just do everything on
the machine itself isn't that nice yeah
it's so nice so other than that very
simple amount of math thank you I would
like my grade 11 math teacher to know
that I saw something incredibly
difficult like live you're right when
okay yeah one sends yeah so when NASA
needs like astronauts or stuff you can
say here's Sasha's she's smarter cool
watch the episode where she figured out
how much it cost per hour that's right
Robbie didn't I need to give you an
update on my toothbrush thing alright
cuz I got it
I received my toothbrush do you got it
yes okay before we get into the
toothbrush grab this one a cap five
dollars and you slash energy and of
course you can also submit your ballot
for our contest for the treasure chest
because this is in there it is simply
achieved by sending us an email contest
at category five dot TV and tell us all
about what you love about category five
technology TV or the network or any of
our shows and and then we're going to
cast your ballot if you win you're going
to be able to choose anything from the
treasure chest and that can be yours and
why have you found out that there is one
for the UK as well cool though wait
you're in does recover not this
toothbrush my toothbrush I got it
and the Bluetooth toothbrush a bluetooth
painful David it saves my sessions it
saves your sessions are my tooth
brushing gosh that's great so it it I
have a little display and it tells me
when to sweet switch quadrants in my
mouth and if I find out the display it
has like it has a different display so
it's like a smiley LCD yeah okay so it's
not like a like a another phone kind of
no I do have a phone app for it that it
is okay cuz I can say why would they
have a display if it's Bluetooth and
they also yeah so you have the app as
well but the display tells you where you
should be brushing it out except if
you're pressing too hard too gives you a
sad face no and then attracts it you can
graph and you can get trophies and
badges like you can actually turn
toothbrushing into a game anyway there
was some tie-in to this and I don't
remember what it was but I loved it
does it use energy you know that's what
it was yeah we're talking about all of
them and I just bought a toothbrush that
you have to plug in charged right yes
yeah so that would be some phantom draw
for sure if you're at work and it's
charging yeah y-yeah charge after a
couple hours exactly so I unplug it does
it turn off itself that's the other
thing about this devices this will tell
you if it's still drawing phantom power
exactly because some USB charging
devices and things like that will stop
draining once they're charged so this
might tell you if it is mine would
probably keep Dre chart like draining I
would say I am plugging I am plug
everything all right now that works I'll
just that works ok just wanted to give
you an update since I do we're excited
about you know those drinks like even
existed Bluetooth toothbrushes gotta be
new ok it's incredible games your
friends in the morning you can yeah you
can challenge these badges challenge you
to a to buddy yeah like we're gonna
brush off Microsoft fight
today I'm categories I'll fight against
gingivitis that's the word the battle is
real yeah I just wanna say thanks to
everyone who has been supporting
category 5 technology TV and the network
Sascha thanks for buying your toothbrush
through our affiliate link and you can
go to category 5 dot TV and click on
support us there are a variety of ways
that you can do so not all of them cost
you anything because you can actually
support us by shopping through our
partners and that's a really cool way
that you can support the show we've got
to take a really quick break and when we
come back we've got viewer questions
we've got the top news stories with a
slight linux bias and a lot more right
here on category 5 technology TV don't
go anywhere
now here's another great way you can
support the shows you love for the
category 5 TV network by shopping at
gearbest that's right Jeff cap 5 TV
slash gearbest
it's an online store for the geek streak
in you or the loved ones well of course
I mean especially your loved ones right
because cap v dve slash gearbest quite
frankly has all of the greatest tech
gifts that you could ever hope for at
rock-bottom prices to their cellphones
you betcha
cap 5 TV slash gearbest has a wide
assortment of unlocked Android cell
phones and tablets Global compute
consumer electronics those like your
greatest absolutely from high tech
watches to action cameras headphones
even virtual reality headsets cat5 dot
TV slash gearbest have you covered they
literally have it all Jeff literally
really it's like a superstore right from
the comfort of your own chair at your
computer through the interweb
yeah I there's no way they have it all
true it's just a bunch of random
electronic test me what about clothes
yep both men and women fashionable
apparel at rock-bottom super-duper
prices how to like this well look at
this coat what do you think it's a
slimming mock leather jacket I love it
it's available for less than $30 plus
free shipping a camp five dot TV slash
gear best yeah all right you kinda got
me there
Wow any other questions for me gentlemen
now that the winter is past flying
season do they have any good deals and
say don't come to scold my goodness well
check this out dude
they have everything check out over 500
various drones and not only that they're
available marked down by about 32 up to
63 percent off the regular price love it
what's website again while you're going
to find gear best on our partners pages
for any of your favorite category 5 TV
shows like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat live dot TV slash gearbest
that's easy tech 5 dot TV slash gearbest
that's right happy shopping welcome back
website is category 5 dot TV there
you'll find not just category 5
technology TV but our other shows on the
network as well make sure you check it
out we've got a lot of great stuff all
day and get tickets to our upcoming
events including our debian stretch
release party we've got the 10th
anniversary of category 5 technology TV
coming up as well and we've got some
confirmed guests you want to be here in
person if you can be and you can get
your tickets a category 5 TV of course
we're going to be broadcasting all of
those events live as well so if you
can't be here due to Geographic or
otherwise reasons you can still tune in
live on the air be here in spirit
mhmmm flight seasons finally here how's
it been going it's been really really
fun guys anywhere today it's in the
reclined amazing yeah actually I had a
few drone shoots they went very well you
know and uh you know it's cut just flip
the drone over and you can cut some
grass and then flip it back over and
then keep shooting some videos but let
you do that it has like some kind of
accelerometer that says you can't fly
upside down no I can't okay I'm not like
a micro drone that I push a button and I
can go like will of a sudden do it look
at it I have one that's like that is so
cool you can actually you can fly either
either way I don't very agile very fast
that's so neat like just just add
something to like the G I came out the
new spark drone so like that really
small ones they can like use the Force
and use your hand movements to control
it that's cool that's what I need at the
same time on my Imogen Imogen Heap gets
control of your drone it's just like if
you're traveling with a friend or they
have like a little drone go get them
angry else like this drone attack you
it's like a check my friend nice we sell
drones on our website if you go to cat 5
TV slash fly you'll see some of the ones
that Henry and I love they are you know
we've got everything from entry-level
all the way up to like video drones and
we've demonstrated a lot of them here on
the show you can check out our stock at
cat 5 dot TV slash fly or if you want
one that you don't see there let us know
and we'll see what we can what we can do
for you
also too polo is a little chip that
allows you to track any of your lost
devices you can stick it in your wallet
stick it in your computer tower if you
fear someone's going to steal it from
you and then you can track it down using
geolocation very cool little device and
they are available for 30% off to
category 5 TV viewers all you have to do
is go to category 5 dot TV click on
support us and shop with our partners
scroll down until you see chip polo and
you'll get that 30% off just by clicking
our link just like that
very super cool technology alright let's
do the news do it here here are the
stories were covering this week in the
category 5 TV newsroom
Microsoft will pay you to do your web
searching through Bing Toyota's latest
entertainment system is powered by Linux
Apple is bringing AR and VR to their
devices and scientific researchers have
confirmed a part of Einstein's general
theory of relativity that Einstein
himself said would never be observed
these stories are coming right up don't
Jeff Westen Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website
what are you what you're terrible actor
what this where acting comes into play I
don't know where I think you're supposed
to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's true how much hard drive space you
have how many email accounts how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roof of your own
calm dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine
sign up cat five dot TV slash DreamHost
still competitive paper something just
don't do it
but hey it's a great deal folks best
deal you're going to find five dollars
and change per month put a cap five dot
TV / dream host I'm Sasha generated and
here at the talk series for the week of
June 7th 2017 Microsoft rewards is
planning to pay people to use Bing
instead of its competitors people with a
Microsoft account can sign up for the
rewards program which gives users points
when they purchase an item in the
Microsoft Store or get this when they
search on Bing these points can later be
reimbursed for items Google still has a
strong hold on the search engine market
with a close to 86 percent
all search is being done through their
search engine Bing is in second place
with about 10% the rewards program will
have a variety of levels level 1 members
will be able to earn points for 10
searches a day and level 2 users can
earn points for 50 searches per day
good luck Bing Toyota will be the first
US automaker to use automotive grade
Linux also known as a GTL they'll be
including it in the 2018 Toyota Camry
AGL is an open-source system based on
you guessed it Linux it boasts 200
members from various sectors including
Toyota Honda mercy mercedes Qualcomm
Intel and Samsung the system is designed
as an option to offering from tech
companies like Google and Apple giving
automakers a solid base that they can
easily customize and update the vice
president of Toyota says the ági
platform a GL platform gives drivers
greater connectivity and new
functionalities at a pace that is more
consistent with consumer technology he's
referring to the fact that automakers
are notorious for using slow outdated
tech in their homegrown entertainment
systems as a result consumers prefer
higher tech more current gear like
Android auto and apple's carplay while
automakers have offered these options to
give drivers what they want they
generally are crazy about giving tech
companies like Google and Apple such
prominent place in their cars
that's where AGL comes in returning
control to the center console two
automakers while letting them easily
update or modify the tech the tech will
eventually come to other toyota vehicles
as along with models from sister
companies Lexus the system may also
appear in vehicles from Mazda and
Mercedes and Ford as they and other
members keep an eye on the success of
the Camry release nice yay Linux apple
carplay that's the thing yeah I didn't
even know I didn't know they had
anything that didn't start with I like
are playable I car that's what I would
have expected that's still coming
they're still working on the car
yeah oh that's how they did it yeah came
out with the phone first
what I like about this is that this
story sheds light on the fact that we
don't always recognize that what we're
interacting with is Linux right and
Linux is such a prominent player in the
OS market for embedded devices and
servers the Internet itself is run on
Linux and you look at that - and you
think that's just the interface for the
fog you know the whole system the phone
the am/fm radio the SAP satellite disk
usb whatever okay looking and it's Linux
under circle we had a comment we had a
comment was it last week that somebody's
ATM oh yeah it was run by Linux it was
in the UK I think and Scotland very well
so that that's another example of you
know so the ATM embedded machine running
Linux yeah I always recognize it
limitless yeah for the win
yay Apple may be the biggest tech
company in the world but some of the
biggest tech stories in recent years
haven't involved Apple much at all
Amazon redefined the concept of a
personal assistant by freeing it from
the phone and creating a standalone
speaker that you could talk to in your
home near a myriad companies none of
them Apple have been fighting over the
future of virtual reality augmented
reality and everything in between and
now everyone is talking about machine
learning with Google and Facebook
leading the charge yet on Monday at its
annual developer conference Apple
announced new efforts in all three areas
at the same time the company is bringing
augmented reality to the iPhone and iPad
while virtual reality is coming to the
Mac and you can soon find Siri inside a
standalone speaker for the home at the
same time Apple is sharing machine
learning tools with developers while
being more open about its efforts like
so many of Apple's best ideas someone
else thought of them first
it's just that Apple believes it can
make them better these are the
technologies that some of the world's
biggest technology companies believe
will define the future of how we
interact with our computers not through
mechanical interfaces but more natural
human experiences now that Apple thinks
so too it's simply a question of whether
they're slick software and massive
customer base will allow the company to
leapfrog its competitors despite their
late start I believe they will do it
you're going to do it I think so they're
a infuriating when you're a creator and
you yeah invent or at least build upon
something in such a way that it's really
your baby yeah and then have a company
like Apple come in and at least in their
version and that's better at the same
time I almost wish like Google Apple
like all these companies could have like
a baby or something it just make like
the ultimate like smart thing my Google
I thought I Google you or something I
don't know but really like there's just
so many amazing people out there with so
many amazing ideas and it's just like I
wish I wish you could like put your
minds together and make something
amazing without having to worry about
company constraints because like I was
watching the Apple show the other two
Apple show on the conference the other
day and is really neat because you know
like the little Apple speaker thing it
looks really neat it's very what doesn't
affect my Apple so you have to do it
well yeah but at the same time you
already have a Google home and you have
like all these other things right so
nice like but this is Siri and this is
so an an Alexa now they're gonna fight
now like if you have two different
speakers are they gonna like fight each
other happy neat if that be awful to the
death I would watch I thought I said I'm
gonna say it's more of it but I'd watch
that short film that would be amazing
people are gonna have kids named the
Syrian Alexa oh my gosh no please don't
if you're thinking about it stop do not
even procreate at this point you're
doing it wrong
don't do it okay Wow okay Albert
Einstein predicted that whenever light
from a distant star passes by a closer
object gravity acts as kind of a
magnifying lens brightening and bending
the distance the distant starlight yet
in a 1936 article in the journal science
he added that because stars are so far
apart there is no hope of observing this
phenomenon directly
now an international research team has
done just that as described in the
article which will be released this in
this Friday's publication of science the
study is believed to be the first report
of a particular type of Einstein's
gravitational microlensing by a star
other than the Sun Terry Oswald of Embry
Riddle Aeronautical University explains
when a star in the foreground passes
exactly between us and a background star
gravitational microlensing results in a
perfectly circular ring of light a
so-called Einstein ring the group
observe observed a much more likely
scenario two objects were slightly out
of alignment and therefore an
asymmetrical version of an Einstein ring
formed the ring and it's brightening or
too small to be measured but its
asymmetry caused the distance star to
appear off-center from its true position
this part of Einstein's prediction is
called astronomic lensing and this is
the first time it's been observed in a
star other than the Sun amazing thanks
for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha tomatoes thanks Sasha this is
category 5 technology TV please check us
out on our website category 5 TV don't
forget to subscribe to us on YouTube and
hey if you didn't know we in fact edit
out all of the features from each
full-length episode every single week
and you can get those on our sister
channel it's Linux tech show com so
anytime you want to you know just get
the meet of the episode the feature
itself that's where you want to go and
then you've got videos that you can
share a little more easily than an hour
video hey everybody watch this yeah yeah
I mean really actually hey everybody
watch guys yeah like but we do get
sometimes a folks on our on our main
YouTube channel saying you know I came
here for this ten minute segment and
it's a whole hour and a half long to
watch to get there great head on over to
Linux tech show com that's what you're
looking for it's just edited down
snippets of category-five TV and of
course those snippets are also available
our website category 5 TV you'll find
them click on shows go to category 5
technology TV and then you'll see the
offshoot menu there that gives you the
option for shorter clips from the show
very super cool we've had some comments
questions come into the studio this week
we could tackle some of those so if
you've sent in your questions or your
comments stick around
don't you go anywhere because we're
going to see what we can do for you our
little short and condensed versions of
your question extravaganza right that
sounds perfect perfect tech male thanks
are you doing it yeah I can do it go
ahead
Oh waiting for you to hold it very like
taking a commercial break laughing oh no
no let's get right into it yeah okay you
guys want a commercial no yes no this is
like those just buy stuff yeah good so
this is awesome Marion Roden mary says
hello I'm orange man's wife I Ranieri
I'm sister named Marion chilly welcome
to I am blind and cannot read anymore
last week I met someone who used to go
to our church and he told me about
Kindle which loads books and then you
can use earphones to listen to them
through text-to-speech technology
yeah Orangemen took a look at the books
that are available on Kindle for me and
we found that the content is not really
to my liking I'd be happy to just load
my own books on mp3 and play them that
way
we already we have already got the Bible
on mp3 do you have any suggestions on
how I can get my books this way thank
you from mrs. orange man thanks nice
this orange nightmare in German yeah you
know Kindle is pretty neat and the whole
text-to-speech think that's awesome oh
yes very technology but it's also it
still kind of sucks right like it's an
even to use text-to-speech you know it's
cool and it's a really great feature but
it's not the same as an audiobook an
audiobook is a real person sitting down
with the novel reading it into a
microphone you get the inflection you
get the suspense they've admitted really
make it especially
martien good luck I love my Star Trek
audiobooks I gotta say you know John de
Lancie is such a good read is a
fantastic actor and he can do picard and
he can do
Riker and society it's amazing but one
of the the suggestions that I would give
you is to find sources for good
audiobooks and probably the best-known
is called audible yeah these days and
the reason for that is because they they
really have the widest range of genres
so if you're looking for your spiritual
content they've got that if you're
looking for
non-fiction if you're looking for
fiction in any genre they've got it and
quite often it's the same books that you
could buy and read if you if you were
able to do that so get orange man on
there
we actually are I sought out audible
this week having received your email and
we have been successful in establishing
a partnership with them so if you go to
our website category 5 dot TV let me
just go there right now
and you know I know that you're you're
just listening tonight Mary and that's
cool but John will describe what what
we're doing here and or pardon me orange
man will Peter and what I want to do is
I want to click on support us and shop
with our partners and then you see
audible is now a part of that and this
is what I wanted to show to you or
explain to you is that what we've
established is a 30 day free trial and
they've got it set up so that you can
cancel at any time so this is like an on
no risk give it a try you can listen to
up to 2 books through the course of your
trial and then if you don't like it or
if you don't want to continue with it
you just cancel at any time and there's
no harm no foul but that's all you have
to do so head on over to our website
category 5 TV check out audible I think
that's probably going to be the best
resource for you and those are
audiobooks so those are not
computer-generated robot places somebody
reading the book as
it's a script but they're so dramatic
and like William Shatner just like no
stay away from those lines just kidding
imagine if every book on audible would
read by William Chappell Jackson oh yeah
he probably does I hold it down Morgan
Freeman just yeah reads life not there
you go yeah fabulous thank you very much
for reaching out Mary I appreciate that
and I hope that that's a good resource
for you please let us know give us an
update all right Henry do you have one
for me though the awesome yes I do I
have one from an Andy Cooper Andy you
have been summoned Andy hi are you doing
um hi Robbie
Oh stock knee I'm sorry hi Robbie I was
wondering if you might be able to answer
a question for me which might also be
useful to other viewers of your show a
friend of mine is going from the UK to
start a new teaching job in China she
has been there before and last time she
took with her a Windows laptop with some
kind of proxy software installed to
allow her to communicate with the
outside world
yeah the problem is that since your last
visit she's changed her laptop to Linux
machine running boom - and there doesn't
seem to be any good proxy software for
this operating system so can you give
any advice for traversing the Great
Firewall of China that's actually
awesome sorry please and thank you keep
up the excellent work so it sounds like
she was kind of using some kind of like
um proxy or virtual private network so
she's just wondering if you have any
advice about that yeah thanks Andy
so hmm okay on your Windows system you
were connecting through a proxy what a
proxy is is it allows you to connect to
another computer and then access the
internet from there so in China where
they block access to certain types of
websites for example YouTube because of
Western propaganda and things like that
or whatever the reason may be it's very
political in order to access those sites
you can connect to a computer
a server in the United States of America
and then through that connection access
the site because the site everything
thinks you're just connecting to this
server in America and vice versa
so so on Windows yeah you might need
some fancy software and all that I think
maybe I don't know of any I'm like you I
don't know of any on Linux that are like
hey here's a great GUI for setting up a
proxy that's what a proxy is so knowing
what a proxy is can we do a proxy in
Linux and the answer is yes so we don't
actually need any software
it's Linux it's built for that kind of
stuff so we just got a hack a little bit
Rob gore says try expressvpn that's one
for example to use on Ubuntu Linux easy
to set up that's a good suggestion thank
you but I know that hey you're a good
friend Andy you don't mind sticking a
Raspberry Pi in the backroom you've got
good internet at home so let's use that
as our proxy let's say ok I've got a
Raspberry Pi
it's got SSH and I'm just going to
connect it to the Internet and set up a
really good strong password for it so
that nobody because it's going to be
wide open to the Internet you don't want
anyone to be able to access it so the
way to protect it is to set a good
strong password maybe throw CSS lfd on
there as a firewall so if people try to
guess at the SSH password it will block
them after five attempts that's always a
good thing maybe there's a good feature
that we could do I know from China your
friend could connect from their linux
computer to that raspberry pi it doesn't
have to be a PI it can be your computer
or anything at all on outside of that
firewall and then connect out to the web
yeah should we try it look yeah let's
let's hack some computers I've got yeah
I have a Linux laptop right in front of
me let's jump into the terminal and
first of all I'm going to bring up my
Google and I'm going to go google dot CA
and I'm going to type in IP there's my
IP address remember it okay so now armed
with that information we know that that
is my
internet connection here so pretend I'm
behind the Great Firewall of China we
want to get outside of that so that we
can connect okay so all I'm going to do
is use a tool that's built in I need to
have a server or a computer with SSH
another Linux computer basically
somewhere out there there we go who's
like what I couldn't move things you
need to have another computer somewhere
out there that you can connect to from
that China system okay so I happen to
have a server a game server that I can
use for the sake of this demonstration
so I'm going to use that command is
going to be SSH dash D and what we're
actually doing is we're setting up a
socks proxy on our computer using SSH
cool I'm going to SSH to my server
that's in Canada and then I'm going to
connect out from there so SSH dash D and
then I'm choosing a port so I always
like to use three zero zero one some
people use 8080 reason I use three zero
zero one is usually because that's not
in use on my computer because this is
opening a port on my computer my laptop
your computer in China not the remote
computer and then I want to enter the
server address so in my case it's just
SSH right so yeah that's I got that
right so okay now I need to enter a
password so this is my password and now
I'm simply connected to that server with
sshd a socks proxy so now that I've done
that I'm going to minimize that window
and just leave it running and then let's
bring up Firefox so my proxy is open my
my proxy is now running I'm connected
but I'm still if I go to Google it's
still going to give me the same IP
address what I need to do first is I
need to go into the Preferences of my
browser I'm using Firefox but you may
use something else go into advanced
network settings it's going to be a
little different for you use system
proxy settings now I want to use manual
proxy settings HTTP proxy is one to
seven
0:01 we know that is localhost port is
three zero zero one which is what I
specified
that's for HTTP then for Sox 127.0.0.1
and then the port again three zero zero
zero three zero zero one leave
everything else has default that's fine
okay now if all went well and I go to
Google connection was reset no interwebs
some connections don't like it test
before you remember you do it let's see
have I got yeah I connected so the port
is open on three zero zero zero three
zero zero one sure I've got the command
correct I've got the settings correct
yeah okay
now that that sentence can try close the
browser just in case really want it to
work first try that be really nice
do I have a firewall on here
it's the Great Firewall of Robbie's this
is true they just have a status mm-hmm
ufw is installed preferences
it's probably under admin firewall do
you guys see it firewall firewall you if
W dash D know they would know how to
disable you fw I can't Google it because
I'm problem is HTTP proxy setting
disabled and um W disabled sorry what
was that so much soul boo says the
promise HTTP HTTP proxy setting you have
a socks proxy not an HTTP proxy firewall
stopped and disabled let's try the let's
try the theory here okay good thing
about running a live show oh yeah and we
and I love this about our show is that
we can try things together and then if
you experience these problems and
hopefully hopefully hopefully it will
help let's try it that way mhm and our
Internet is actually down at the moment
oh no hang tight hang tight
oh no what wha the interwebs that is a
joke why is it down so nice tonight
not so funny though the weather it's too
nice it's like I'm taking a holiday
okay Sun is beautiful I work when I want
to work yeah little Rogers come on guys
have chat on your phone you can tell my
mom I don't that would explain why I
didn't work oh yes
I'm back up the lies we're back on line
with that time and then hit enter try
again let's hope for it
hello everybody let's try Google dot CA
yeah he just killed the Internet sorry
guys
oh you know what you're right killed the
internet probably lost my connection
which which I did
look I'm connected to Robbie laptop
that's right
okay let's start over see what happened
there we actually just lost the internet
for a moment as as Henry was saying so
I'm going to just kill all - 9 s SH and
then we're going to re-establish that
SSH connection is there video so ok yeah
ok
SSH - d300 1 and then my server the port
enter falls happy it's going to ask me
there we go they lost my connection due
to our internet hmm going down yeah it's
just a buffering for a second but ok
apparently audio is dropping up for some
people but I think that's just a
buffering okay so as I apologize for
that little bit of a hiccup there now
what we've done sold ooh thank you very
much for mentioning it I am using a
socks proxy this time around not an HTTP
proxy so we changed the setting so that
it is only using socks
okay so I've left HTTP proxy empty now
Google it has come up if I type IP what
is it it's a different IP look at that
okay I'm going to turn off the proxy
just to show you no proxy okay then I'm
going to do the exact same search on
Google so right now it's 9 9.2 35 and
research
research that again I might have to
refresh IP I'll say 1 1 4 I have now
successfully created a SSH Sox tunnel
basically through a server in Canada you
can't use that server because you don't
have an account but you can set up a
Raspberry Pi you can set up a Linux
computer something with SSH so that they
can tunnel through it cool and it's
yours you're not relying on a
third-party service that has advertising
or charges you astronomic range no as
long as you've got the system plugged
into a good solid internet connection
it's good to go
that's what I love about technology
because it's like at the same time
though it's like you could technically
use the same idea and if you wanted to
you could technically make your own like
cloud software did you know what I mean
right in like your own Dropbox oh yeah
oh yeah you can yeah there is software
to do that there's a lot of cool
applications of this why do you have so
much fun this season oh my gosh so cool
please note Andy that when you set this
up for your friend if this is the route
that you want to take she will need to
know how to enable and disable the proxy
because if she's not connected to the
proxy through SSH she's not going to be
able to access the internet if the proxy
is enabled in her browser so you'll need
to make sure she knows how to toggle it
on and on and how to enable the proxy
with the SSH command or maybe can set up
a script or something like that there's
probably a cleaner way to shut down the
proxy I usually just do a kill all on
SSH but if you have other SSH windows
that wouldn't work so yeah there you go
that's that's how I would do it okay
then yeah very good question thank you
very much
and I think that would make a really
cool feature for a Raspberry Pi episode
you did yeah all right do we have any
more questions before we run out of time
here well we do we have Rob gore Rob
gore hi Ravi and gang up Rob gore and
all viewers who have been around for
some time it is so nice to hear from you
it's been a while and we've missed
yeah and I hope you're doing well so
thank you very much for reaching up to
the show okay I have resized some images
using the GIMP so that they are the same
height not concerned if the width is
different
I checked the images the image
properties and made sure that they are
all set to 400 pixels 400 pickles
pickles for delivery for the height and
the XY resolution is set to 72 pixels
per inch when saving the images I have
used to save for web option with 90%
quality when adding these images to my
website using WordPress they are showing
a different height and maybe ideas or
suggestions yeah okay
let's understand the inner workings of
how WordPress is is treating your images
I'm going to head over to pixels comm
we're just going to grab a real quick
stock image so like that a whole lot
like in cars but I just grabbed these
clouds
okay so poofy makes you want to fly
doesn't it Henry
that's just like outside right never of
you still got to go yeah I'll just throw
that on my desktop for you here Rob Gor
okay so I'm going to take that photo and
I'm going to make you know what I better
grab a second photo here as well because
because I want to we want to be able to
demonstrate the difference here's the
perfect example this one's super wide
okay so that one's a perfect one to use
okay now we've got two pickles okay grab
these photos let's bring them up into
the GNU image manipulation program okay
so we see that and we see oh that's a
big high-res image from texels nice whoo
yeah you know it's a high-res image when
your system fades for a moment and I
like this window is not responding oh
yes it is like all the lights flicker
it's like
you don't know how hard to download it
love it okay so here's image number one
let's choose our height we're going to
say our height is going to be 600
because if I'm hearing this question
correctly rongeur is setting the height
to a static height so that it's the same
for all his images right but he's not
caring about the whip correct okay so
we're going to use 600 as our height so
this one happens to end up is 393 with
the width or the oh sorry no I just
Oh Jeremy just as I clicked it I
realized no that was actually backwards
its width and height now the GIMP has
reversed things and now I have to wait
for this massive image to scale holy big
image here guys we're looking at it
18.2% still there at least nighttime
yeah it's just kind of dark this is the
Halloween episode version oh come now
then you said why did I choose such a
big image for you around 8 million maybe
I'm just going to use the what did the
height end up being let's use that holy
400 pixels for the height because we're
live I would never do this I'm going to
force quit cuz I don't want you to have
to wait for me to look at a progress
indicator that's your deal go go what is
this Microsoft Windows uh totally no
it's good here we go okay a nice picture
yeah that's a lovely picture you're
traveling too far okay all right let's
grab height not yet because you're doing
it by height sorry I thought that that
one was height for some reason I don't
know okay so I'm going to do 600 height
and notice that it's locked
proportionally so it's going to rescale
correctly and we're going to scale it
down so there is our image with 600
height and it ends up with 916 width
okay so I'm going to export as now you
said you used save for web you must be
in an older version I'm going to export
as and I'm going to call this four
web okay and then we'll do the same as
you did 90 percent I usually go for 98
because I am a beast for quality okay
600 quality 600 height is what we're
going for
image scale image 600 height so now I
think if I follow your question that I
am essentially now at the point that
you're at where you've created these
images you're not caring about the width
but the height is the same for all of
your images so when I look at that it's
the same height as the other one so I'm
going to export that as for web and
again we're going to give it 90% quality
which is 10% compressions ish mm-hmm all
right so we now have two new images I'm
going to throw those ones away so we
don't get confused for web I'm going to
maximize that that's the size that's the
size notice exactly the same height they
are both 600 pixels high
beautiful WordPress is responsive the
word of the day so the whole idea behind
responsive design is that when I look at
a website a wordpress site on my
computer it's going to look great the
images are going to fill in the space
it's going to look really nice if I look
at it on my phone same thing it's just
restructured and moved around that's
called responsive design so when you
upload an image to WordPress it is it's
going to do scaling proportional scaling
based on its responsive layout so that
has to do with your template your theme
and your settings in for multimedia in
WordPress itself under I think it's
general so with that said when I upload
this image it's going to get resized by
WordPress to a responsive size so let's
bring them both up again and usually how
it's going to work is it's going to have
maximums so let's say our maximum is so
WordPress thinks the maximum is 300 by
300 for this particular allocation of
the image
so if the maximum is 300 it's going to
look at this image and it's going to go
okay that means 300 width which is going
to result in a 197 height because if I
make it a 300 height the width is now
over my maximum which is 300 so we have
to do it that way so this is what
happens in the background of WordPress
so now we've got an image that is 300 by
197 take this other image use the same
math and say okay the maximum is 300 so
if I put 300 as the height this is
WordPress talking now that's going to
make it 707 width which is over my
maximum which is 300 so my width has to
become 300 so now the height because
this is proportional is now 127 pixels
on that image so now I end up with an
image that is 300 by 127 it falls within
the maximums that WordPress has
established for your layout but now we
have one image that's 300 by 127 and one
image that's 300 by 197 that's what's
happening there so if we want to have
our images be exactly the same every
time we need to have them be the same
the term that we're going to throw out
there is called aspect ratio so you've
heard of your TV is 16 / 9 so that can
be 1920 by 1080 pixels but it can also
be 1280 by 720 pixels it's the same
aspect ratio even though they're
different sizes on your screen first
example was 1080p second example 720p so
in order to achieve that so if we know
I'm going to just undo both of these so
that we're back to having a 600 height
so I'm going to look at this one and
let's let's pretend that this is the
this is the perfect shape for our images
so we're going to call that our shape
but it's the aspect ratio this is the
the aspect ratio that we want so the way
that I can fix the other image so that
it's the same aspect ratio is I can look
at this one and I can go okay this is
9/16 by 600 so now go back to the other
image which has already been scaled down
to 600 but now I need to right click and
this time I'm going
go image canvas size and I'm going to
change this so that it is not linked
make sure that these two are not linked
proportionally and I'm going to change
this what did I say 9/16 was that
correct
nobody made notes no 913 that's right
okay image canvas size 9/16 now you see
what happened is it position that in
such a way that it's cutting off the
right hand side of the image so I can
the left hand side you know the right
hand side yeah that's right so I can
drag this you see that crop box that's
the size that we're going for 9/16 by
600 so I can reposition this anywhere
any way I like
and then hit resize and what it's going
to do is it's going to crop that image
to the exact proportions
so now if I export that image and then
close out of those now I can look at
that image and look at the next image
and they are exactly the same okay that
is good that said what happens if you
end if you start off with one that is
see I'm cropping and I'm scaling down to
600 remember that WordPress is going to
scale anyway so you don't necessarily
have to scale it down to 600 first let
WordPress do the dirty work for you so
if we have a high-resolution image let's
grab one because now that we've learned
what we what we what we don't need to do
is scale the image we don't need to
resize it so that it's 600 height
instead once we know our desired aspect
ratio and I've just lost access to my
mouse again sometimes this happens on
the glutamate and they are matei and I
think that it might have to do with the
video drivers when I can get in there
that way that works now that I know that
really what I'm looking for is the
aspect ratio I don't have to actually
rescale this down to 600 height I'm
going to show you how to do this so
here's my massive high-res image
there it is so now if I go image canvas
size notice I'm not going to scale this
to 600 first now what I'm going to do is
I'm going to copy the either width or
height it's going to vary depending on
the the original original aspect ratio
of the image so I'll show you the the
process here and then you can figure out
which one is which for your photo I'm
going to copy the height now I'm going
to go 9 16 by 600 that's the aspect
ratio that I'm desiring now I can turn
on the link that makes it so that it's
proportional and then paste back in the
original height now I have a
proportional aspect ratio crop for this
image that is 1847 high hit resize and
there's my image it's twenty eight
twenty eighteen forty seven and yet it's
exactly the same aspect ratio as my nine
sixteen by six hundred image because of
the way that I processed that so Rob
Gore I hope that that helps shed some
light on why is happening how it's
happening and how to avoid it use the
highest resolution images that you can
because WordPress is going to
automatically scale those down for you
it's not like old-school web design
where you had to scale it down because
it's too big yeah
Savior save your image once it's ready
do some touch-ups if you need to but
high res is great and then WordPress is
going to shrink it down the only reason
you want to do it any other way is maybe
if you have a very finite amount of
space on your server then you might want
to reduce the amount of space that's
being consumed by your images by
rescaling but hopefully that helps and I
think that's all the time that we have I
think so do you believe it goes by fast
oh boy does it ever Wow thank you all
for reaching out thanks guys great shout
if I didn't get to your question tonight
please hang tight pop me another email
say hi I love hearing from you live at
category five TV or just go to our
website category five TV click on
contact us
just like that just like that anything
exciting going on this week this coming
up week well we're halfway there
we still got shop no I have a day off
coming up nice I feel like I've been
working on a Friday I'll head up the
cottage there and it's been a weekend
and the cottage fry yeah I know
well Welling is there something I know
he's beautiful out there I'm still
getting used to my life as a cyclist so
and how's that working you've had really
good weather for your trips up to the
studio that's true yeah really bad
weather every other day oh my god I
leave a rain suit on me at all times now
oh that's good I've been having fun it
takes me 35 minutes to bike from my work
to the studio and then 45 minutes from
the studio to home Wow good workout it's
a great workout yeah I'll work you up to
this week comment below let us know you
look forward to hearing from you love
the interaction love to hear from you
and I look forward to seeing you next
week next week we have a very very
exciting show for you said Sasha you and
I were at the Georgian Mall that is
correct oh yeah and I was behind camera
Sasha was on camera we've got a very
special feature for you as Sasha shows
all the past survives you are at a mall
the biggest USB flash drive in the world
we're going to be showing a mind-blowing
unbelievable do not miss it we'll see
you next Wednesday night hi guys
[Applause]
[Music]
