here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
thanks to robots and automation in the
u.s. Africa is at risk US cities are
starting to crack down on commercial
crypto mining due to the heavy load it
puts on their power grid an autonomous
flying taxi is coming to New Zealand and
3d printed homes afford the less
fortunate these turns are coming right
up don't go anywhere
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching this is the
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux bytes I'm Sacha Rickman in here
the top stories were following this week
within less than two decades it will be
cheaper to operate robots in the US
based factories event to hire workers in
Africa a new report warns following
automation costs are predicted to cause
job losses as manufacturers return to
richer economies though some analysts
say poorer countries could be less
impacted by this trend the Overseas
Development Institute suggests otherwise
its report however it does add that
African nations do have time to prepare
for the change
Karishma Banga a senior research officer
at ODI says African countries must not
shy away from manufacturing but instead
prepare by increasing access to Internet
investing in technical skills and
promoting technological innovation dirk
willem de Velde director of the
supporting economics transformation
program at ODI said in a statement
currently the cost of operating robots
in furniture manufacturing is still
higher than labor but this will not be
the case within 15 years their report
that in the furniture manufacturing the
cost of operating robots and 3d printers
in the US will be cheaper than Kenyan
wages by 2034 and in Ethiopia ODI per
day predicts that robotic automation
will be cheaper than Ethiopian workers
between twenty thirty eight and twenty
forty two this gives the continent
between one and two decades to build up
its capabilities in sectors that are
less at risk of automation such as food
and beverages garments metal and metals
the report writes it advises African
nations to expand access to broadband
and develop locals technical skills
through vocational training technology
hubs and a bigger focus on STEM subjects
in African educational bodies okay Wow
so we kind of saw this coming I would
say truthfully from it yeah I didn't but
that I didn't ever think of it I didn't
well yeah give it a second thought and
now it's like oh yeah that makes sense
well I mean we think about it from our
own backyard I mean you look at how
technology is changing things here but I
didn't think about the other countries
and I know that sounds very self centric
but I I don't know if I've ever paid
attention what what do we get from
Africa from a man I know talked about
furniture is a very good example okay
like 75 percent of the furniture that's
manufactured is exported okay no yeah
not necessarily to Canada here I'm not
sure what the percentages are but
definitely you think about like the UK
right a lot of Europe yeah absolutely so
a lot of it ends up there mm-hmm
so if the u.s. is able to manufacture it
more cheaply all of a sudden this
becomes a problem so in in right Africa
definitely furnitures one Ethiopia
you're looking at apparel shoes for
example so where it reminds me of the
the story we just covered a couple of
weeks ago with the jeans with this is
where I see I saw it I seem to see the
trend where technology is taking the
load off of
jobs but labor jobs are generally
outsourced to other countries because
labor is expensive here and cheap there
as soon as we don't need to have people
laboring instead of instead it's robots
of course why not have them here as
opposed to there right like it right
right so now the onus is really on these
countries to to find another way
this is a tough situation too because
you know as I'm thinking about this more
and more and you can comment below if
you're watching this online if you're
watching this on on cable TV send us an
email through our website but it would
have fear not be that okay now if it
becomes so cheap to manufacture it
through robotics through automation and
we think about slave labor and we do
care about the conditions in these
factories in Ethiopia and in China and
what happens if now all of a sudden
wages have to go down because costs have
to go down or what if conditions which
are already poorly have to become worse
in order for these companies to compete
so there's a whole other aspect to this
where you know maybe regulations there's
that word again why do I bring up
regulations but does America have to say
we need to care more about the world as
a whole be careful while we're
approaching this regulate the
manufacturers and say look we need to
make sure that if you're going to
automate that you need to follow these
best practices in order to protect the
families and the individuals who are
currently manufacturing these in in
third-world and and and poorly
conditions mm-hmm
wouldn't it be great if they could
implement more stem training for oh
absolutely that's what I liked about
that story is it did say you know more
stem training in the education program
at I mean I think it's great ma I do I
mean well that helps the next generation
absolutely what does it do for the folks
that right now have if they lose their
jobs have nothing
that's a great question that's a
question just to put out there there's
no answer to that yeah and it is just a
question and it I don't know the answer
u.s. cities are starting to crack down
on commercial crypto mining due to the
heavy load it puts on their power grid a
city in upstate New York has become the
first in America to effectively ban any
new commercial grade cryptocurrency
miners from powering up Mayor Colin read
in the city council of Plattsburgh this
month signed off on a measure to place
an 18 month moratorium on any new
industrial scale crypto coin crafting
operations within city limits
all cash mining companies typically
require a permit to operate within
Plattsburgh now no more applications
will be approved for a full year and a
half located on the banks of Lake
Champlain near the Canadian border
Plattsburgh has a population of 19,000
people and is a hotspot for boating and
bass fishing its proximity to the lake
also means that Plattsburgh is able to
enjoy a low-cost hydroelectric power
making it extremely attractive to
large-scale crypto mining operations as
reg readers know altcoin crafting rigs
can be tremendous power hogs so when
those mining operations came to town the
normally cheap power became more
expensive due to the soaring demand and
residents saw their electric bills climb
up by an average of $10 a piece in
January alone just two of the registered
miners miners accounted for around 10 to
15 percent of the city's entire power
consumption now to slow down the power
slurp Plattsburgh has decided to block
any new operations until at least the
fall of 2019 existing crypto coin mining
outfits will be allowed to stay for the
time being those who violate the new law
will be subject to fines of up to $1,000
per day the city notes that during the
moratorium it will look into whether a
long term zoning and power law and
crypto coin mining is needed meanwhile
New York State has ruled that high
density load customers or crypto miners
if you read between the lines face
rising electricity bills due to the
pressure they place on electric supply
grids this is interesting another thing
I didn't see that coming yeah well yeah
I mean and because I'm just getting into
mining cryptocurrency myself from right
you know at home with consumer grade you
know products I haven't seen the impact
of a large-scale right power drain at my
house so to speak so the idea that
there's companies out there that are
using such a high power demand that it's
causing the citizens of the town to see
and increase the power bills kind of
baffles me because I know if my energy
goes up at my house I'm paying the bill
yeah so why aren't they just getting the
bill themselves and instead it's being
distributed to everybody well here's one
consideration is that it is high to
elect hydroelectric so it's water
powered electricity so there it's a
finite resource so would they not have
to bring in more power to the grid if
they've exceeded the service and the the
flow of what is what the generators are
capable of right so the costs go up but
but then put that on the company like it
you read there some degree sure yeah you
rather the two companies were 10 to 15
percent of the power usage alone so take
the city's power bill and give them 10
to 15% you know yeah I don't know that
it's that easy nice if it was that easy
yes you're a company that's doing this
so you're the one who gets but I think
it has to do with the whole grid and the
network of the electrical grid and the
the cost to produce the energy required
by that region has gone up and so it
affects all of the users right now the
user who is crypto mining with this
massive like we're talking server farm
oh yeah they're gonna be paying them
most of that bill yes still going to
impact other folks as the overall cost
to operate has gone up maybe more
man-hours are required because more
people are required to to operate the
the
hydroelectric station and and the
electricity coming into the town right
and am I correct in assuming home
cryptocurrency mining is not banned it's
just the larger one no it's just
industrial these are companies that open
up specifically to mine and this is
people are making money off of this
because they're and this is why I can't
mine Bitcoin this is why you can't mine
bits right now Sumer gear because these
companies build a network in a rental
unit or something or at least a unit and
they draw on the electrical system and
they mine so awful was so much powerful
there's so much power that us little
guys just can't buy Raspberry Pi won't
cut it right no my even my mining rig
which is sitting over there and you can
see all the video cards and like it's
not gonna cut this is a conversation I
would have never imagined that we would
ever be having like I did because
cryptocurrency is new right I just this
blows my mind that this is a real
problem so it is what I love them and I
mean I get this deviates a little bit
from the news but a month ago
cryptocurrency was a foreign concept I
mean I knew what it was but how it
worked I didn't understand and just in
the last month of exploring it and
starting to do it myself at home
I know get it and I'm going oh oh oh
this is you all know what exactly
was years ago coin first came out yeah
so easy to mine a Bitcoin yes so I can
see the appeal to setting up a company
getting the hardware in place oh yeah
just blowing through the mining to
really hook onto some of this cash and
this new trend that's going and so I
mean it's cities do have to turn their
mind to this sort of thing sure you know
what happened the new business model
that draws a lot on the electricity yeah
of that like we're not talking consumer
gear sure you're running your computer
and it's using your electricity but it's
still just your computer right okay
we're talking server farms that are
running at a hundred percent CPU and GPU
all the
I'm 24/7 with 300,000 computers and you
know mega can be like just ridiculous
well you should be using their money to
invest in some green energy ideas well
that's a good idea
and that's why people may be building
them in places that are super cold so
they don't have to cool it but it's
possible like the amount of output that
the green sources may be solar wind
whatever may not be enough to actually
run at all well that's like that's how
much Hardware there is oh I totally
agree so but maybe they're just like
Cyril sneer and they just oh my goodness
raccoon is a throwback TV show that's a
that was I could only see him mining
cryptocurrency Oh totally absolute
absolutely
yeah or Scrooge McDuck a new air taxi
service was financially backed by Google
Google co-founder Larry Page is set to
take off in New Zealand thanks to an
agreement announced last week pages
Kittyhawk company the developer of a new
autonomous flying machine called Korra
will begin testing the service in rural
Canterbury a region in the South Island
the electric air taxi can carry two
passengers it is designed to take off
like a helicopter and uses proprietary
software to fly like a regular
fixed-wing aircraft with the help of
some human supervision Zephyr air works
Kittyhawks New Zealand Afiya Affiliate
has been working with government
officials on plans to test the new
service as part of a program meant to
encourage science and innovation in the
country despite the high interest in
developments the business case for fully
autonomous air taxis is not as strong as
one might think suggested Stephen Polzin
Polzin is the director of mobility
policy research at the University of
South Florida's Centre for urban
transportation research he says for a
passenger air travel particularly
commercial air travel the labor costs
associated with pilots is relatively
modest in the context of total cost
provided providing the trip which
dampens the motivation to go
to full automation I gotcha right make
sense yeah that makes sense to me right
the wages of the pilot is pale in
comparison to the fuel and the jet
itself and right sure yeah but if it's
one element you can take out of the
equation it's one less payload thriving
the driver therefore less fuel
consumption all that kind of stuff but
so what I'm listening to this the first
question that's popping up in my head is
is this necessary are we gonna need air
taxi and I seen this some videos for
what the traffic's like in New York City
I feel like maybe that's the thing I'm
thinking about I'm going okay I commute
every day to work I'm on the road
depending on traffic either between an
hour to two and a half hours so cut 45
minutes off of that right but then I'm
also going okay in traffic
there's Road reach and sure if you're
sitting there and you're watching some
guy go and go across traffic in this air
taxi I mean I'm thinking about what's
the impact going to be on somebody was
on a motorcycle and the air downstream
from the well I would theorize that it
would be up a little higher than so then
we have the issue of air traffic control
because in at least the regulation on
this Jeff it'll move but but no but
here's the thing so for flights in think
just ontario i don't know about other
areas but we have a cap of a hundred
feet you cannot fly a commercial
aircraft less than a hundred feet from
any structure talk oh right I'm
picturing in my mind that this is just a
taxi sort of thing where it's like in
one city like short distances it's not a
community drone oh right it's like to
get across oh like a table top but like
rooftop to rooftop maybe like yeah I'm
going from my
kondou here's Wayne yes that's right
yeah yeah like I'm picturing short
distances it's okay I'm not gonna be too
much of an issue as far as air traffic
control and things sure and can I just
say along that vein Jeff believes they
can build an autonomous robotic airborne
taxi but they can't figure out air
traffic control no that's not what I
said I said there's a need for it
there's an usher they've worked that
into the equation of the autonomous
programming maybe they must but I I'm
I'm with Sasha on this I think it's
probably like building to building
across New York City yeah but still
you're gonna need something because I
mean sure if you've got like I think of
Toronto we have orange air ambulance so
you've got an ambulance that's right it
lands on the rooftop of the hospital and
hey you've got 15 minutes to get to that
accident scene you know 60 kilometers up
the road and so it's like helicopters
gone and if you got some taxi in the way
that's not the helicopter helicopter
needs a landing pad it does have
two-person taxi yeah maybe not so much
but I bet you close to the size of a car
footprint sure absolutely that's same as
a car pulls off to the side of the road
when an ambulance comes this air test
poster would would probably die vert its
path and get out of the way I am throw
air taxi and final you know my final
thought is as things grow into the
autonomous era the autonomous vehicles
on the road will know oh here comes the
air taxi it's about to come down back up
yes and it's all integrated it's all
working together in the same mesh
network and saying okay he's about to
come down and land in the middle of the
highway okay so I know you said that was
your last my last thought so if they're
all integrated one hack attack and it's
done I always put a dark spin on a Jeff
know we covered security measures a
couple shows ago course I think it was
last week think security yeah yeah they
need to work it in that's the point
to get the security solid then roll it
out okay maybe that's the part with the
human supervision it said with some
human supervision maybe yes
no no that taxi don't hack that I'm
really proud in Texas tucked behind a
house for the wealthy there may lie some
hope for the significantly less
fortunate more than a billion people in
the world go to sleep each night without
reliable shelter but a pair of companies
working on solving that believes that
their model of quickly 3d printing a
one-story house could not only provide a
roof over the head but a genuinely great
place to live it's a proof of concept
built by Icahn a construction firm and
new story a nonprofit that sets up
housing in the developing world the 380
square foot dwelling required about ten
thousand dollars or seven thousand
pounds of concrete and took the and took
48 hours eventually the goal is to build
a 650 square foot version and to bring
down the cost significantly by using a
mixture of economic on amis of scale I
can all yes like buying concrete in bulk
and improvements to the 3d printing
machine the goal build time is between
12 and 24 hours later this year the
project will head to El Salvador to
build some test homes with the view to
begin work on a community of 100 houses
in 2019 if it if it does work it would
literally change how shelter is created
said Bret Hagler chief executive and
co-founder of new story it's
irresponsible for us not to try it like
small-scale 3d printing the system works
by slowly adding material layer by layer
in this case that material is mortar
similar to concrete the height and width
of the house is constrained by the size
of an enormous metal frame which
operates autonomously once given its
instructions with the machine they can
print up to 11 feet tall the robot
follows blueprints created using typical
cats
software this means homeowners would
have the ability to create their own
designs on site or pick from a library
of possible configurations Hagler
believed the machines will be operated
by local construction workers and it is
hoped that the lower cost of each unit
would turn intern mean more demand for
more houses to be built that's so great
yeah I love when technology is used to
help people yes and the the price point
of it was really quite cheap as well the
fact that it was AI was a $10,000 and
that's at current rates sure granted
that doesn't include you know whatever
the rig is that you're right you're
gonna have to have cover your cost of
buying and all that kind of stuff so I
mean it might be that maybe it's a
$15,000 for the home but who's going to
be paying for it is oh that's what's so
genius about this foundation that
they've set up right right but then you
also have the land so it's not just the
building but it's the land so where does
the land come from who's gonna buy the
land right right all this kind of stuff
and I think I know what you're you're
asking because like okay we're helping
impoverished folks right how will they
pay for this right
that's what's smart about it because
what they've done is they've set it up
so that first of all a lot of donations
okay into this okay
so Silicon Valley in particular is
investing by donating in this
organization okay so then they're going
in and building these house houses using
these 3d printers and and they're not
giving them away they're selling them to
the individuals but here's the catch
they're doing it at what what would
equate to about $30 a month in our
dollars Wow so they're giving them a
mortgage that works out to be about $30
a month they're doing it interest-free
okay they're doing it with no profit and
then to take it one step further now to
keep the momentum going that $30 if you
will just to you put a number out there
that that equates into you know Canadian
terms that money is now put into a trust
okay so now they're building up this
trust so that they can now build homes
for other people and then do it again
hang it forward and paying it forward
from these initial donations that have
made it possible
very cool so love it yeah and so now
these folks who could never afford to
mortgage a house are mortgaging a house
right and it's manageable that's neat I
like that I actually really love that
they're small homes too sure yeah I do I
like right because next gen and you know
hey let's take this to Mars and like all
so much potential well I mean when you
let's be clear you look at the homes
that we've got in developed countries
and I mean around here I mean I Drive
past you know six million dollar homes
that are 10,000 square feet I'm going
why yeah like you've got a family of
four living there you know I mean I've
spent time in Guatemala and Mexico
Dominican doing humanitarian work a lot
of cases their homes are 100 200 square
feet now there's like six of them yeah
so to give them something that's I think
it was for 600 square feet they're gonna
have so much room for activities sure
you know that's gonna be fun I mean
truth be told the bigger your house is
the more you feel like you need to fill
it with stuff right for sure yes so the
when you have a smaller house I think
that all of a sudden your attentions are
on more important things like getting
out mmm right it's your it's your living
space it's your sleeping space it's yes
shelter yeah but you can home ownership
for somebody who isn't able to afford a
mortgage right and a concrete structure
for you know in an in a spot where
perhaps there isn't that sort of
material used for the the normal house
so I mean I was talking about the
humanitarian work the when I was in the
Dominican that's what we did we built
home so we went it there was a community
that we designated where we're talking
like metal sides just find a piece of
metal putting it up sometimes palm
leaves like that's literally what it was
hurricane comes from it's gone
so what we did is we started with one
home you build this one home
cinderblock Foundation concrete floor
and it was bigger than what they had and
so then their idea because of the
community-minded was hey this is our
home your homes next you come live with
us while we tear down your shack and we
build you another home yeah and then
you've got two homes and both those
homes going hey yours is the next house
come live with us
and so the community starts taking in
the other homes that are Wow you know
and so everybody's got a place to stay
so something like this this is amazing
give them a little bit bigger footprint
to live in and start inviting some of
the rest of the community and as we
build those homes I'd love it
love this idea mm-hmm big thanks to Roy
W Nash in our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson
and I'm Jeff Lester
[Music]
[Applause]
