I'm Henry Bailey Brown and here are the
top stories more like looking down
because prompters down here today the
top stories for the week of April 12
2017 microsoft revealed the specs for
some forthcoming hardware and it's
nothing short of impressive at the heart
of the device will be a non system chip
packing eight custom 32-bit cpu cores
clocking up to two point three gigahertz
apiece plus 40 yes 40 GPU cores at 1172
megahertz apiece for a total of over six
teraflops of graphics crunching capacity
12 gigabytes of gddr5 ram will enjoy
memory bandwidth of 326 gigabytes a
second a 1.2 a terabyte hard disk and a
4k blu-ray round things out that's a
very great piece of product right there
sadly this is not a new desktop computer
or server it's the next xbox AKA project
scorpio that is really really impressive
project Scorpio will be a significant
device because all the power described
above there so that games can deliver 4k
video and VR experiences the new xbox
goes on sale just in time for Christmas
oh my gosh that just that just blows my
mind Roger Scorpio because from the
gaming community we've been hearing
about projects correo score score score
feel for a while sounds like a cake eat
cake but seriously though that's
incredible and to know that that's a
gaming console right because i i'm i
moved i used to be a console player but
then i moved over to pc because the
performance everything else like that
but to learn if that's an xbox that's a
gaming console i would love love love
love it for someone to hack it so that
it could be turned into a little
supercomputer well that's the thing too
is that ridiculously powerful it is
Microsoft so right now there is kind of
a way how you can stream your games
using Windows 10 and there's that
capability so wonder if they are going
to make it kind of
but more compatible with like PC usage
rates like kind of how you said i'm not
sure if there's going to be any like a
docking station or something something
like that's not just incredible really
para flaw a computer running microsoft
word it just got hey that's you can read
a pretty intense book with that come on
you know no more waiting but no I'm
personally very impressed by that next
up is a very interesting piece of news
that has been all over the internet
already the sirens are usually used to
warn of extreme weather events in dallas
right so a hacker has been blamed for
setting off more than 150 warning sirens
in the US city a dallas over the weekend
the sirens are usually to warn of
extreme weather events such as tornadoes
all 156 sirens in the city were
activated at 1142 p.m. on friday and the
noise lasted for about 90 minutes
technicians for the office of emergency
management were eventually able to shut
down the warning system and find what
they said was the evidence of the siren
system being hacked last year someone
hacked into a number of traffic signs in
dallas and use them to publish jokes
there's the no suggestion suggestion
that the same people were involved at
this current sirens incident so that
would be interesting waking up at 11p
like 11pm hearing air raid sirens go off
not knowing what that was all of that
were a little bit scary who are fo calm
but oh yeah well no because for all
malice did you have to sit through that
well no because it will be scary too
because that happened after i believe
the events in sweden right cuz i'm there
is an attack in sweden off the road so
just hearing bad it will be very scary
so it's I'm happy here that was just
hacking and nothing too serious though
it does kind of reveal this like this is
an issue that you know that they need to
tighten things up they do anything think
they're you know how how does this
happen oh really I wonder if it's just
like some 15 year old singer what do I
want to do tonight right because we
don't know yet that's uh really knocking
the sirens hey let's do it guys let me
know if not trying to be done say okay
very honored now modern smartphones have
a wealth of sensors inside from
accelerometers to gyroscopes while
sensors like these make phones more
powerful allow to use your phone's
orientation as an input mechanism in a
video game for example they also do
present a potential lay for hackers to
figure out a four digit PIN computer
scientists from Newcastle University in
the UK found that by monitoring sensors
like the phones for example a kilometre
gyroscopes make aunt Megan ohmmeter and
other sensors such as those so like
which detects things like the devices
motion and orientation they're able to
figure out a user's pin around seventy
four percent of the time just on the
first guess alone Wow the number rose to
ninety-four percent by the third tries
that they attempted that's that's just
crazy the entry point where they
attacked to detect the pin was a
JavaScript exploit delivered through the
browser on the phone all the smartphone
user had to do was simply click on the
link that had malicious software and
then that would be and that would detect
the phone sensor data going on in the
background so I wonder if that's both
like Android as well as iPhones or
anything else so in the case of Safari
the method worked even when the phone
was locked over the link so like after
the link had been clicked on meaning
that it could detect the pin typed into
an unlocked to unlock the physical phone
the physical device one researchers said
that they reported their findings to
Apple who have since fixed the exploits
so Apple did fix the exploit that that
that fix happened last year is part of
the iOS 9.3 update Kevin to an associate
professor of electrical engineering and
computer science at the University of
Michigan has said quote sensors may
represent the weakest link in IOT
security soham bank so ambiguous yet so
untrustworthy and so poorly
misunderstood and clunk whoa so just an
entire segment right there that's a
little bit unnerving right because it's
something that we take for granted every
single day
and it's it's sitting right there for
hackers to exploit and all it takes is
one little link and again we we never
heard this before today here's my phone
and you're in a classroom or Henry
acting right next to you so you're kind
of like this when you put in your pin
and realize that my little bumps of my
fingers are able to give away can give
it away to a javascript that's running
in the background on my phone it's
creepy but it's it's possible and that's
scary and who we'd even know about this
until today and to know that Apple
already knew about it and they fixed it
as they said and there's other things
out there like touch ID and stuff but
who says that they don't use a
javascript to try to unlock your
fingerprint the other thing that just
opens up as kind of a revelation and I
think people need to maybe clue into
this more is that viruses are not the
main threat that are out there right now
and I get a lot where you know people
don't want to get the security suite
that is going to protect them against
exploits because it costs more money
they just want ethylene antivirus and I
have to explain that's fine if that's
what you want that's absolutely fine
however you need to understand that
JavaScript flash adobe flash is they're
all entry points infected macros in Word
documents that aren't viruses they are
just their entry points for exploits
into your system and when we realize oh
I can get my system can get exploited
now and damaged and compromise or my
privacy like my pin for my phone
compromised because of JavaScript it's
not a virus no man just a JavaScript
running in the background that can
capture sensor dad yeah and it doesn't
matter if you Apple Android anything
else you can still do it so it's one
thing to watch out for and make sure
that your pin for your bank isn't the
same as your phone right so yeah it's
not gonna move okay so moving on kenna
nautical is to stop developing unity
eight convergence a boom to phones and
tablets and a boom to 18.4 LTS will use
gnome instead of unity as its default
desktop wow that's a bit of news right
there uncle
rumors are circulating that boom tues
founder Mark Shuttleworth may be
returning as canacona Cole's CEO a role
he stepped down from back in 2009 he
indeed announced that unity would be
dropped with noam being the desktop of
choice for boom to moving forward he
says chronic conical will invest in a
boob to no one will be the intent of
delivering a fantastic all gnome desktop
so that experience really does affect
Linux users out there we all know that
he means canonical yeah I'm sorry I'm a
Mac yeah canonical I know what just this
game is a big shocker this week to
realize that the old CEO founder of a
boon to mark shuttleworth who we've had
on the show who left as the CEO stepped
down is now kind of reprising some form
of a role we don't know to what extent
but the rumor is this is only a rumor
Henry hmm maybe he's trying to get back
in a CEO we don't know that's
interesting and that's you know right
now completely under embargo if it's
even known but regardless the fact that
they're dropping unity which is what
pulled me away from ubuntu in the first
place yeah and going back to Nome now
it's gnome 3 so it's not going back to
the good old days I've you know warty
warthog and you know the gnome two days
might still want to go with a boon to Ma
Tei but it's a big transition for
canonical and to think that they are
going to be now taking their investment
time revenue dollars and putting that
into gnome the gnome project that for a
little while there was starting to look
like maybe they didn't have what it took
as a development team to continue on
yeah and now they've got canonical back
in them up yeah that's that's
interesting here well it's a little bit
of like a repeat of history right
because like I remember back Justin
history class like kind of like at what
Apple did with some Steve Jobs it's like
being back when they were changing their
user interface right redeemed the whole
company yeah but this is this really
interesting to see it because it's I
don't want to say it's a repeat of his
history but we are seeing the
sudden change at a know where I think
we're at a time where we're going to see
a lot of change with ubuntu with
nautical and the drive the direction
that they're going to be taking but we
don't know what that's going to be yet
yeah because there hasn't been that
official announcement and you know marks
stepping up and saying what's going to
happen next other than this one big deal
yeah so I apologize for mispronouncing
your name there guys okay um but thanks
again for watching the category five dot
TV a newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all of your tech news with
a slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category five dot TV news room
I'm Henry Bailey Brown
[Music]
[Applause]
