hear the stories we're covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom the
in-browser mining of cryptocurrency is
becoming a serious issue a new machine
is going to print metal parts at a tenth
of the cost of today's manufacturing
systems potentially launching a
revolution in small part production keep
your iPhone 10 warm otherwise it may not
work and Intel versus AMD forget about
it the arch rivals are working together
to bring out a new hybrid these stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
Jeff Weston Jalen you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
ok you're terrible actor what does where
acting comes into play I don't know
you're supposed to act ok I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap 5 dot TV slash DreamHost
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat 5 dot TV slash
DreamHost
this
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight Lynn explains I'm Sasha Rickman
and here the top stories were following
this week it has now been confirmed the
crypto jacking phrase that maxes out
your CPU is exploiting at least 2500
websites a researcher has documented
almost 2,500 sites that are actively
running cryptocurrency mining code in
the browser's of unsuspecting visitors a
finding that suggests the unethical and
possibly illegal practice practice has
only just picked up steam since it first
came to light a few weeks ago william de
Groot the independent security
researcher who reported the findings
last week says that he believes all of
the 2,496 sites he tracked are running
out of date software with known security
vulnerabilities he further explained
that these vulnerabilities are being
exploited by the attackers who then use
their access to ad code the code
secretly harnesses the electricity and
CPUs of visitors to generate the digital
currency known as Manero about 80
percent of those sites he added also
contain other types of malware that can
steal visitors payment card details whoa
it's not just smaller sites that are
affected either for example when the
researcher visited the Australia Subaru
page which contained the code the CPU on
his macbook began spiking and the fan
could also be heard he says besides
putting a noticeable strain on my
computer the site also draws additional
electricity from my office the
arrangement allows the attackers to reap
the benefits of my hardware and
electricity without providing anything
to me in return there are other
indications that the in-browser crypto
mining racket is getting worse - in a
report published Tuesday endpoint
security provider malwarebytes said that
on average it performs about 8 million
blocks per day - unauthorized mining
pages whoa that's a lot ok yeah I know a
lot about like the cryptocurrency
Bitcoin but I don't know anything really
over here a lot of
Bitcoin bitcoin is the one in the news
all the time right right so what is
Manero and how and why and just Bitcoin
do this too but how am I does Monaro
need to leech CPU and oh well I mean
crypto cryptocurrency mining is the
process of using many computers
hopefully you have many computers at
your disposal to do this to to generate
revenue through cryptocurrency and by
doing that and and the way that Manero
is doing it is a little different
because just the whole nature of kind of
the backend end and there's a JavaScript
that's that's allowing both malicious
and good you know good well-meaning
folks to to you to mine monaro
they can do this in a browser that which
kind of changes the the whole kind of
idea behind it so cryptocurrency of
course has to be generated by mining
which you know I don't pretend to really
overly understand it's very very
in-depth and when you go from Bitcoin to
Manero it's different and you know but
similar in many ways Manero is
completely as far as I understand
completely anonymous though where
Bitcoin it is anonymous Bitcoin isn't
like you they can't necessarily track it
back to you but every transaction that
happens in Bitcoin is trackable to the
public ID of the account where enero is
completely private the public ID doesn't
reference the transactions whatsoever so
people can't see how much money you have
and things like that so what happens
here is that okay so basically like I
could if I wanted to cut the ads down on
our website I could add code that would
allow my website to use your computer to
mine Minero so basically generated
generating revenue by way of
cryptocurrency for me which in you know
if I were open and honest about that
which I would be and said you know click
here to say yes to this and to accept
this then that would be fine and that's
legitimate but what's happened here is
that somebody has picked up on this
capability of Manero and the JavaScript
behind it
and has turned it into malware so that
it distributes itself to all different
websites that don't necessarily
authorize it that whose users don't
authorize it to do this and so now
they've got this massive farm of
computers 2,500 servers that are
infected so every computer that visits
those websites are now mining
cryptocurrency for not subaru not the
company that's running the website but
instead the the malicious person who has
created that malware so that's where you
know it's a very fine line of here's
something that could have been used for
good and it's already being used for
naughty purposes I have a question about
the idea of like creating monaro so can
I do that at home but could you turn it
home and just install the mining
software and write but you've got one
computer and you know good luck making
any money on it you're gonna you know
cryptocurrency mining takes a lot of CPU
power and that's why they do this that's
why yeah it's like we've talked about
botnets and things like that you you
need a supercomputer to be able to do
this kind of stuff and maybe that's why
some of these botnets exist maybe
they're mining currency I don't know
yeah you could do it on a single
computer but you need to leave it
running all the time and would it offset
the cost of the hydro that it uses in
order to mine that that cryptocurrency
probably not thanks Ravi no problem
speaking of supercomputers there is a
new machine that's going to print metal
parts at a tenth of the cost of today's
manufacturing systems potentially
launching a revolution in small part
production desktop metal based in Boston
USA has opened up pre-orders for its
studio system which uses inkjet like
technology rather than laser based
technologies to produce precision metal
parts the system isn't cheap it's one
hundred and twenty thousand dollars to
buy outright or four thousand dollars a
month for 36 months but compared to
other ways of producing metal parts
especially in small numbers it could be
a game-changer sure there are already
CNC machines that cost from thousands up
to hundreds of thousands of dollars but
this fad gizmo is supposed to
be a challenge to that the printer will
be made available in mid 2018 at which
point the company hopes to expand even
further with a product vert production
version of the machine the production
version will offer 3d printing at 100
times the speed and the 20th of the cost
of current systems traditionally metal
3d printing has been used only for
prototyping given the slow speed and
high cost of making each part once the
design is finalized it then goes to
traditional extrude extrusion and
casting methods for both production
desktop metal claims to be able to turn
that model on its head bringing the
price down so significantly that it may
be cheaper to use its system for many
products rather than requiring expensive
tooling equipment to be created for bulk
production it can print items with a
range of metals including steel Steel's
copper and titanium using commercially
available powders and what makes their
solution unique is the printing process
itself as well as the quality of the
parts manufactured the 3d printing
system works in much the same way except
in three dimensions placing a layer of
ink or in this case metal powder on top
of a previous layer it's not that simple
of course the machine also sprays
plastic plastic binding agent and layers
of wax in a very specific specific
pattern the final printed part is placed
in a divine fluid that breaks down most
of the wax and most of the plastic
before being placed in a furnace where
the rest of the binding agent which has
a boiling point of just below the metal
is burned off leaving just the metal the
metal fuses and creating a density of
between 96 and 99.8% according to
desktop metal amazing final finishing
then completes the process 3d printed
parts are still going to work out to be
more expensive than bulk production in
the traditional ways but the cost
reduction means that producing a small
number of units is going to be cheaper
in some cases that may mean that a
company would not need to buy bulk
product parts at all unbelievable yeah I
love this idea I'll tell you I worked as
a college student
in a car manufacturing plant so like
really big steel metal parts and stuff
right and so I'm sort of familiar with
stamping of metals and you know some of
the more I guess injection molding
things so I have an idea of what like a
big scale situation would be but then I
don't quite understand small scale my
dream here with this kind of technology
you think about the extruding systems
and think about the quarter of million
dollar machines that are doing that
extruding process and doing the molds
and everything else so picture if you so
right now and this is a problem that
we've had ever since the automobile came
into existence and we'll use that as the
example there's such a demand on the
automobile itself that in order for a
car manufacturer to be able to
manufacture a car they also have to
manufacture millions of parts spare
parts so that ten years from now when
people are still driving that car they
can still source those parts right so
we've got this overabundance of waste
material that may or may not even be
used and they really don't have any way
to know and so the cost is you know the
cost is unimaginably cheap if you can
get a machine for $120,000 that'll print
parts versus having to print that many
spare parts so you think about that and
then think about taking your car to a
shop and you know how many times have
you heard this oh it's the part will be
here at the end of the week and we can
install it on Monday so instead how
about this yeah yeah we've got the the
3d rendering for that for that part well
will manufacture that for you this
afternoon we've got one of those
machines in the back
can you imagine hey so now the
responsibility comes off of the
automotive manufacturer to source these
parts and now they can instead source
blueprints and 3d renderings is that now
a shop themselves they could easily
invest $120,000 in one of these 3d
printers can now create their own
replacement parts would that be
fantastic
so you know better for the environment
better for you know the earth in general
and and just the the amount of waste
that there must be in these kinds of big
manufacturing industries I have I have a
quick question about the actual way they
they do it because they're saying inkjet
technology versus laser or inkjet like
right yeah they call it inkjet like
because you think about an inkjet
printer going back and forth and
printing multiple colors right so this
is printing multiple layers of the the
various metal materials so lasers are
quite a bit different and and quite a
bit more expensive because you think
about lasers have to superheat the metal
and they're very very expensive they're
big and you know the cost of a laser 3d
printing machine is unbelievable that's
why right now they print one part and
once they've perfected it 3d printed
that one part then they take it to the
traditional extrusion process and all
that kind of stuff so this would if the
cost of that was lower and they wouldn't
have to like make dyes and things oh
yeah and the machines themselves and can
I change modes just quickly before we
move on to the next story and we're
using the example the example of the
automotive industry on the super vette
my wife and and my daughter Tali watch a
show called the super vette there was a
poor dog who had a tumor growing on its
head and in order to operate on this
tumor they had to remove part of the
dog's skull and they were able to save
this poor animal and the animal survived
and is you know lived a great life after
that how did they do it they 3d printed
a replacement part in metal of that
dog's skull and replaced then replaced
the portion of the skull that was that
had to be removed so it really would
work well on them on so many levels
that's like what a stark contrast from
building parts for an automobile to
saving an animal's life you know what I
would print if I could out of metal new
frames for my glasses like all the time
all the time like I wanna do look you
know I got bondic and and bondic works
really well for that kind of stuff it's
a plastic welder in that that's pretty
cool I kind of want to bring it on the
show just cuz it has saved so many
little components that I've been fixing
with melted plastic yeah it's neat I
love it when things like this just are
developed and they become I mean I
realized right now the price point is
high but the fact that it exists means
that eventually the price is going to be
lower I'm gonna talk about this forever
but you think you know one company
invest in that machine
now let's rent it out to other companies
let's take that automotive part
manufacturing machine and let the vet
the local vet rent it out and right
right no limits what what ideas do you
have for this 3d printing middle machine
uh-huh spaceship parts on Mars alright
so back to some phone issues apples
$1000 iPhone 10 may have trouble
operating in the winter weather this is
according to multiple complaints from
owners as well as it admission from
Apple themselves that in cold
temperatures the O LED touchscreen in
the expensive new handsets can become
temporarily unresponsive when taking an
iPhone 10 outside in chilly weather
users have found that the device
struggle to notice finger swipes and
gestures the iPhone 10 uses a five point
eight five inch LED display and
apparently it is particularly sensitive
to changes in temperature the timing of
the engineering blender is going to be
particularly troublesome as the autumn
weather turns to winter for most of the
world and temperatures drop so I realize
that phones have like they've been
getting a bad rap right now because like
it seems like every phone that's
released it's something that's happening
yeah this one is interesting because I
mean touchscreens you're now that
they're always available you expect them
to be super responsive so to have
something leggy it's gonna make you
especially in the Canadian winter you
imagine so is it I wonder the fact that
the temperature of your finger in the
cold weather would be the same as the
temperature of the phone because when
you think about going outside your hands
get cold and your phone is cold but it's
not going to really notice that like if
it's sensing warmth from your hand yeah
I'm not too sure how the technology
works I think it's it's easy to fall
into thinking oh it's the OLED display
that's a problem well no understand that
the OLED display is the the picture that
you're seeing and the the touch screen
aspect of that display is a layer that's
been added on top of that now Apple has
has announced that you know in a
response to this news story in the
reddit discussion that's been going on
Apple responded by saying that they're
going to fix it with a firmware update
so of course everybody goes what like
this sounds so much like a hardware
problem because we're thinking along the
lines of an OLED display and you know
it's the display it's got to be
something wrong with the hardware but
think about that layer of technology
that's on top of that display that
allows the touch sensitivity and the
multi-touch and and being able to
control it with your finger and so if
they're able to release a firmware
update that fixes this then it tells us
that most likely it's something to do
with the underlying programming of that
layer of the device so the algorithms
that essentially sense your your touch
so maybe they need to make it more
sensitive maybe they need to monitor the
temperature and hey when it gets cold we
need to increase the sensitivity because
that layer is you know it takes a little
bit to come down to temperature or
something like that I'm not sure they
you know we don't really know yet what
the actual issue is right I know gene
yes I'll tell you but I am going to just
hazard a guess it has something to do
with cold fingers that's what is I think
it's the fingers and the phone are gonna
tell us that you need to you need to
breathe on your hands first before you
use your brand-new thousand-dollar eyes
it's really cold hands so I feel like I
might not do well with it
iPhone 10 this is where you know you
gotta get into controlling everything
with Bluetooth folks that's where pixels
got it right control it with your
headphones that's right there you go
intel has teamed up with archrival AMD
to create a powerful new processor the
unlikely pair working together on a new
unified chip that integrates Intel's
core CPU architecture with AMD's graphic
technology intel says that the new
processor should deliver the same sort
of gaming performance as current gen
discrete notebook GPUs but in a smaller
less power hungry size this will allow
OMS and system makers to create thin and
light laptop laptops that provide the
graphic power that gamers and content
creators look for the innovation doesn't
stop there however the new fangled chip
will also carry a new low-power HBM to
graphics memory this takes up less space
and provides greater performance than
traditional ddrs GPU memory Intel said
in a press release the new product which
will be part of our HN Intel Core family
brings together our high-performing
intel core h series processor 2nd
generation high bandwidth memory and a
custom to Intel third-party discrete
graphics chip from AMD's Radeon
technologies group all in a single
processor package when can we expect to
buy this hybrid Intel AMD processor as
early as next year
Intel says that they'll be revealing
more about the chip including the
branding and devices that make use of it
in the coming months hmm so is that it
blows my mind that in today's kind of
climate that two rival companies would
really like it was whatever let's do
this let's build something better and I
can already see like it's gonna be super
beneficial like it's going to be amazing
yeah how thin do we need to get here
Intel well we need to get to the point
that you see in all of the movies like
where where it it's if the laptop is as
small as a piece of paper like it needs
to be read it needs to be same you need
to get like the i7 powers if I'm not
mistaken the the Apple
MacBook Air and that is super super thin
that's an Intel processor so if they're
saying that hey this team up with AMD is
going to give us something even thinner
could you imagine oh boy that's gonna be
paper-thin for sure man I love life
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of yours for submitting
stories tests this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman
[Music]
[Applause]
