one of the things that I as a non gamer
can appreciate is folks who do a lot of
game casting now my broadcast is
typically general technology and things
like that but it can sometimes be
difficult to now take our retropie or
take a PlayStation 4 or take even a
computer and record that so that it can
be broadcast we run into this with the
pixel shadow right mind test dot TV it's
one of our shows here at category 5 and
we do a lot of Game Capture for the mind
test video game but when you install
something like fraps or when you use
screen capture software on the computer
that you're actually using to game it
affects your framerate right it requires
a lot of hard drive space a lot of power
a lot of times because you're working
with HD video and and you're playing the
game at the same time as you're trying
to record it it can be brutal so
similarly you know we're using a retro
pie tonight and it's got some games on
it and say we were a broadcaster and we
wanted to record our gameplay so that we
could later up upload it to YouTube and
you say all the time how can we do that
from something like a retro pie it
doesn't have enough power to install
screen capture software and things like
that we could plug it we could buy a
very expensive capture card we could
plug it into a computer that has enough
power to record but as our guest a
couple weeks ago had mentioned that his
computer itself was not powerful enough
Noah no what was saying his computer
wasn't powerful enough to record
directly the gameplay so we had to buy a
separate device so I started looking
around for hey how can we kind of
utilize this idea here in the studio and
make things a lot easier and that's when
I found cap 5 dot TV slash AGP Tech belt
AGP Tek now the capture device from AGP
Tech is a little different from what
Noah had nois to device still required
that you plug it into a computer and it
records to that computer's hard drive
but it takes over some of the CPU
rendering and things like that the stuff
that takes your computer and slows it
down and puts it on an external device
giving him more power right I wanted to
take it one step further and instead of
doing that I wanted to see if there was
some way to eliminate
need for a computer all together to be
able to plug something in to a
PlayStation 4 without having to affect
your gameplay and just push record
remember when we have VCRs yes you can
just push record any time you want it
and you had a recording I was right
we're doing so I did find this AGP tech
device and this thing is sweet it is
cheap yeah if you can just lift that bad
boy up for me there we go and it looks
like that and you didn't know this but
we were actually using this tonight and
what it has is HDMI input from the
retropie or it could be anything at all
that that is supported if you want to
plug it into your game console or your
computer's HDMI output it goes into the
HDMI input then it has an HDMI output to
go to the TV so we're able to have low
latency zero latency as far as I can
tell
gameplay so that I can still see it up
on the TV even when I'm recording right
so this device has a USB port so I can
plug in a USB external flash drive or
hard drive or an SD card port I've
plugged an SD card in here I've got a
kingston SD card in a it's a micro SD
inside of a micro SD to SD adapter that
they provide with it and all i have to
do in order to start recording whatever
is on my screen is just push down on
that and you'll see a little red light
come on and it is literally recording
right now so anything that's going on on
the screen on the computer so if i let's
bring up this shot so that you can see
what's going on here and i'll just i'll
exit this game let's turn on the
controller first there we go i'm gonna
exit the game and let's just even look
at that so you know i can just navigate
the menu system here and there you have
it so i'm actually recording what you're
seeing on the screen there to this
device over hdmi okay the AGP tech
device takes it one step further Jeff
because if you're really interesting
which I am you want to be able to record
from stuff that's not HDMI you might
have an old NES system you may have a
legitimate old system that you want to
plug in for retro gaming this does
something truly unique for the price
point
it has a breakout cable nice this
breakout cable gives us both component
and composite okay look at that so we
can record from our standard old-style
devices that are not HD it takes a one
step further Jeff what it then converts
it in this device as you're recording to
HDMI output Wow
so now I can plug my old console into
this yep
I can press record to record my gameplay
and have it up on the big screen TV
because it's got HDMI output oh my
goodness and it converts it all for me
it also has a microphone jack so that
you can plug in a microphone if you want
to do live voice over you can do that my
preference is instead to record to a
separate device the audio i've got a
zoom h4n that i record with the headset
mic and then i add it later right i can
do some editing and things like that but
it also has an audio line output so that
you can plug this directly into an audio
system or a pair of headphones or
something like that but there you have
it it's the simplest way to do it I'm
only giving you a very very brief
overview of this particular device
because there's more to it but it is
very very simple it does have a wireless
controller okay that allows you to
change between 720p and 1080p recording
it is 30 frames a second so Noah's had
the advantage of it goes up to 60 frames
a second right for what I do for
anything that I'm gonna need this for
but I'm I'm very happy with 30 frames a
second so this does something else for
us so now here in the studio
okay so forgetting about gaming maybe
gaming isn't your thing what could you
use this for we use we're looking at a
DSLR camera right now this is a Nikon
d50 100 and we've I've hacked the
firmware using Nikon hacker and I've
given us clean HDMI output but the Nikon
cameras and and most DSLR cameras are
going to give you an option of do you
want to record to SD or do you want to
output over HDMI you can't do both okay
so everything that I can record from
this camera is going to be done on
Wirecast which is great it does a
fantastic job but
I can plug my DSLR camera into the AGP
tech device then the output from that
into Wirecast I can broadcast in
real-time just like we do already but I
can push record on this device and I
have an isolated recording of just that
camera so if for some reason something
goes wrong and I lose some file or for
example if I forget to change cameras
there and I want to switch it in
post-production
I can then edit it and fix that make
sense I've got ISO recording inline
using this so I can have one on each
camera and and that will give that to me
nice it could also be used for you know
not just the gaming but as I say just a
dirt cheap kind of recorder for you for
your camera in broadcast and I also
think about how we'd love to do more in
the field recordings broadcasts but it
requires a very powerful computer mm-hmm
with this I can record using this device
and then have the output from the camera
going into a laptop or something like
that to do the very low resolution
broadcasting because where it really
needs a lot of power is in the record to
disk this will take care of the
recording from the camera I can then
post produce it later
see and as you're talking about this I'm
thinking of a very practical and for me
emotional reason why I would want this
our oldest
we have like his various videos of him
as a baby and clean version of the birth
and all that kind of stuff but it's on
film
so but the camera does have video output
yeah
composite and so I haven't I mean I
still have the tapes they still work I
view them every once in a while but it's
it's the paying to convert it as oh my
goodness frigging costly that's not even
what this is intended for but but yeah
you're right plug in your camera to this
push record push play let it roll and
you're done it's on an SD card and I've
just converted all oh my goodness my
wife's gonna be so happy
Wow so check these out cat five dot TV
slash as a
P tak-tek alright and I am incredibly
happy with this purchase I think it's a
fantastic little device and I'm glad
that we carry them glad I found it check
it out
[Music]
[Applause]
you
