here the stories were covering this week
in the category 5 TV newsroom Bristol
Airport has blamed the cyberattack for
causing flight delay screens to fail for
two days it could soon prove expensive
for media makers to chase online pirates
in Canada the country's Supreme Court
has unanimously ruled that internet
providers are entitled to reasonable
compensation when asked to link pirates
IP addresses to customer details a few
lines if CSS is all it takes to bring
Apple devices to their knees and the
father of Linux Linus Torvalds would
like to apologize for years of being a
jerk and is taking time off to learn
empathy these stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere
Jeff Weston Gellin you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you you're terrible actor what does
where acting comes into play I don't
know you're supposed to act okay are you
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash DreamHost
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
DreamHost
this is
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux bias I'm Sacha Rickman in here the
top stories were following this week
Bristol Airport has blamed the
cyberattack for causing flight delays
flight display screens to fail for two
days an airport spokesman said that the
information screens were taken offline
early on Friday in order to contain an
attack similar to so-called ransomware
the spokesman said no ransom had been
paid to get the systems working again
ransomware is a form of what malware
which computer viruses threatened to
delete files unless a ransom is paid
spokesman James gore said we believe
there was an online attempt to target
part of our administrative systems and
required us to take a number of
applications offline as a precautionary
measure including the one that provides
our data for flight information screens
that was done to contain the problem and
to avoid any further impact on more
critical systems mr. Gore said that
flights were unaffected but contingency
measures and manual processes including
whiteboards and marker pens had to be
used in place of display screens at no
point where any safety or security
systems impacted or put at risk he said
that it had taken longer than people
might have expected to rectify due to a
cautious approach given the number of
safety and security critical systems
operating at an airport we wanted to
make sure that the issue with the flight
information application that experienced
the problem was absolutely resolved
before it was put back online no flights
are understood to have been disrupted as
a result we have that's the world we
live in right that's that's right and to
be honest with you I'm not super
surprised something like this might
happen my question is I guess more about
like it happens here as well in in like
our towns and stuff is what they did
enough like if you if you notice it is
and you just shut down one part is that
enough we didn't really go into details
as to how the infiltration was taking
place and and to say that
okay we're shutting down systems to to
stop it from spreading I mean it makes
sense because the way ransomware infects
networks is it looks for other systems
on the network finds the files that are
shared on those systems and encrypts
them right and then holds them ransom
right
it's usually not a targeted attack
though it's something that just comes in
through somebody opened a bad email or a
website address they didn't have proper
protection or here's a scary scenario
for you Sasha
somebody had Remote Desktop or something
installed in their computer and active
so that they can access their computer
from home right so they can work from
home and those protocols RDP for example
Remote Desktop Protocol you can't tell
when someone's brute-forcing your login
okay so they find so these scripts bots
if you will they find computers on the
web that are open to Remote Desktop as
the example and once they find that
computer
it starts guessing at the password and
it keeps going keeps going until it gets
in and once it gets in it then
infiltrates the network and just goes
you can spread yeah yeah so how it got
in I'm not really clear on this one
right but it could have been somebody
opening about email a file that was
ransomware that could spread in the news
they're calling it a virus so it makes
me think maybe it is a bit of a Trojan
horse or something like that something
that somebody opened and it you know
here's your invoice open the invoice
it's scary it's scary just to think that
it's the airport so airport security is
paramount and here's a computer system I
mean mind you it's just the flight
information but that's a system inside
the airport so now they can get in there
they could have gone anywhere so I
understand but the end of the day it's
flight information arrival times and
departures which would be linked with
air traffic control within the airport
you think because it's monitoring the
signals on the planes what I love about
the story is that they go beyond the
talking about the you know the issue to
say but we use white boards and
can erase markers reminds me of my
recent work experience for my use my I
use my blue keyboard and and as patients
were coming in I was signing them in so
that I knew the order of arrival and I
could tell them where to go that's
exactly what happened are you sure that
this was ransomware just told Windows
Update that's all it was shut this thing
down before Microsoft updates all our
computers and destroys our network yeah
it could soon prove expensive for media
makers to chase online pirates in Canada
the country Supreme Court has
unanimously ruled that internet
IP addresses to customer details voltage
pictures the production firm behind The
Hurt Locker intended to sue roughly
55,000 customers of telecom giant Rogers
for allegedly bootlegging movies but
when but balked when Rogers wanted to
charge $100 per hour to comply with
their requests for information Rodgers
won the initial federal federal court
case but had to defend itself at the
Supreme Court when voltage appealed the
case voltage had insisted that these
kinds of fees would make it too costly
to pursue pirates good justice Russell
Brown rejected this notion however and
suggested that media producers could
wind up imposing stiff costs on ISPs he
noted that costs may well be small right
now but that it would be wrong to assume
that they would always be
inconsequential inconsequential not
surprisingly Rogers characterized the
decision is a victory for customers
claiming that millions of people face
open season on their personal data if
ISPs had to provide info no matter what
the cost this doesn't mean that Canadian
ISPs could ask for blank checks Brown
indicated that Rogers should go back to
a lower court to prove its costs even so
it adds a barrier to Hollywood studios
and music labels expecting to track down
pirates they can't just assume ISPs will
work pro bono on their behalf
I love this in no way am i say you know
go pirates but I that's not it at all
no I love that it's not just a steamroll
process right like when it oddly enough
with voltage pictures this is the second
time that they've come into a
high-profile case over The Hurt Locker
the first time was years ago when they
took on tech-savvy because they wanted
to get access to who the people were
that were downloading it but tech savvy
took them to court and I don't remember
all the details but basically tech savvy
one to a certain degree to say you can't
just have our data right and now they've
so voltage pictures has continued their
onslaught over The Hurt Locker who even
watches The Hurt Locker anymore like
this is an issue that's like movies what
eight years old ten years old like who
cares now but you know now it's like hey
we want all your people oh you gotta pay
for it and quite frankly I think they
should mm-hmm and the Foo in in our chat
room says exactly what comes to mind is
that 100 bucks an hour I mean consider
this as well the Foo this is Canadian
dollars Rogers is a Canadian company
hundred bucks an hour's cheap that's
true I charge 150 yeah I mean I'm just
saying I assume that there's information
all over the place like I'm assuming
that you're tracked all along the way so
are they just looking for a legal way to
get the information from you they're
trying to get like like as if it's
public record like as if Rodgers is
obliged to provide this information
because it's illegal what these people
are doing so you must give us this
information well then pay yeah and I
Rodgers is a huge company so there's
there's you know there's two sides of
this where it's like I don't want to
sound like I'm defending Rogers because
that's not the case what the case is is
that nobody should make that assumption
that they could just go and and assume
that well I can just get this
information no charge because because
the customer is breaking the law mmm-hmm
Rogers has every right to charge twice
what they're asking I totally agree
yeah there'd be every right there being
really reserved in this absolutely not
only that depending on what the data is
that's been requested I mean we're
talking fifty five thousand clients I
think it said in the story
I mean Rogers would have to make sure
that the information they're sharing in
no way goes beyond what's been requested
and so that means going through the
fifty five thousand files and oh my god
to say you know we want to make sure
that we're not just you know maybe it's
the addresses and the names we're not
giving you billing information we're not
giving you credit information like so I
mean that's gonna take a lot of time
right they need to be careful because if
Rogers screwed up you know that anybody
who gets sued is going to go after
Rogers to say you gave information that
you shouldn't have and impacted the case
blah blah blah but it's a Hurt Locker
for crying out loud I don't care what it
is it has to do with like companies
rights I mean it's the fact that one
movie they're still pushing it's like
there's other movies that people are
pirating okay so speaking of other
movies I went to the Toronto
International Film Festival for the
first time ever and I was sitting in the
it was incredible I'll tell you but I
was sitting in the audience and all of
these warnings come up about you know
don't bring your recording devices yeah
I know print legging
what's great about it is all of these
warnings come up and then everybody goes
are in the hole I mean it's pirating is
wrong it's true
is stealing but so many facets to the
story giving information for free to
somebody who just requests it is more
wrong so yeah I love it that's it
a few lines of CSS is all it takes to
bring Apple devices to their knees
Apple's iPhones iPads and Mac computers
that stray onto websites with malicious
CSS code while using Safari can crash or
fail overdue or fall over due to a flaw
in the web
browser the WebKit rendering engine
vulnerability can be triggered by just a
few lines of code in a CSS file on iOS
devices at least it all starts to go
wrong when the browser tries to parse a
processor-intensive CSS feature called
backdrop filter on nested page elements
the so called Safari Reaper attack
developed by a Berlin based security
researcher and uploaded to github this
week effectively crashes iOS devices
from iPads iPhones running iOS 7 to 12
and even Apple smartwatches the CSS
causes the rendering engine to exhaust
the system's resources and force the
gadgets to reboot to recover Mac can be
similarily frozen by the same exploit
forcing them to restart so don't try
this at home other browsers that make
use of WebKit are likely also vulnerable
on systems that don't crash the HTML
renders a picture of a triggered Thomas
Tank Engine the same trick crashes tabs
on ie and edge the researcher came
across the vulnerability while
researching browser caching crashing
attacks more generally last week story
though is this story because Apple just
doesn't like this Apple crash often is
this why it's a story no well no I mean
my wife has a Mac I know nobody yell at
me I don't think it's ever crashed yeah
it's but I mean a lot of the world runs
on Mac because of all the graphics and
all that kind of stuff so a lot of
people use it so that makes it a
newsworthy topic but I mean like I look
at that and go okay sure great wonderful
you crash you know there's other issues
bigger than this it's like however so
maybe it's not a huge issue but maybe
the simpleness of the capability of an
attacker to crash system like we can
inject a CSS code into an existing site
let's say we work it into a word
plug-in yeah right right that is widely
distributed and so then everyone gets
their updates on their WordPress blog or
website and now tens of thousands of
websites are infected with this
undetectable because it's not malware
it's just a piece of yes s code yeah
that now everyone with a Mac goes to
that site and their computer reboots and
it's right across the board like it's AI
devices and the Smosh your phone -
that's it that's quite a vulnerability
that is incredible that soar for a
system that like never crashes
that there's something so simple that's
it's its Achilles tendon like it's it
blows my mind it's it's ultra small now
here's a conspiracy theory for you okay
now that it's Microsoft that owns github
right yes yes put that code in all the
CS
that's exactly how Microsoft rolls -
yeah it just injects it into this yeah
that's bad anyways the father of linux
linus torvalds would like to apologize
for years of being a jerk and is taking
time off to learn empathy Linux creator
linus torvalds has apologized for years
of rants swearing and general hostility
directed at other Linux developers
saying that he's going to take a
temporary break from his role as
maintainer of the open-source kernel to
learn how to behave better for more for
many years Torvalds has been infamous
for his explicit expletive filled
aggressive outbursts on the Linux kernel
mailing list
chewing outs developers who submit
pasture patches that he believes aren't
up to the standards necessary for the
kernel he's defended this behavior in
the face of pushback from other
developers insisting that people being
nice to one another was an American
ideology but that many that may be
coming to an end in a lengthy email
posted too
mailing-list Sunday nights Torvalds
explained expressed a change of heart
taken to task over attacks that he
recognizes were unprofessional and
uncalled for he says now he recognizes
that his behavior was not okay and that
he is truly sorry he's going to step
back from kernel development for a while
something he's done before while
developing the git source control system
so that he can get help on how to behave
differently at the same time the Linux
project now has a code of conduct
previously the project had a code of
conflict a code of conflict a short
document that asserts that the code
quality is the only thing that matters
and implores developers to be excellent
to each other the new code of conduct is
more extensive and sets explicit
standards for behavior requiring it to
be positive professional welcoming and
inclusive thank you for listening to me
what I mean
I feel like Linus literally just watch
this show some day very good to want to
know exactly right people should be nice
to each other it smarts to care empathy
is something I should build compassion
is important this is what happened and I
thank you - I actually really I want to
be a friend we have such a such a
mentality here of community and and
caring for one another and and
supporting one another between our
community the hosts yes what's this
about why he's like this has legal
proceedings written all you think so
yeah 100% 100% there's somebody within
the company who within the quali within
the development community yes whose own
but I think probably even more so within
the company that filed a complaint that
became a legal matter and that's why
these kind of statements are issued
that's why on his departure you see a
change in the code of conduct all that
kind of stuff this says settlement all
over it ah okay so I watched the Steve
Jobs movie on Netflix like the last two
days I watched a little bit
at each night before I fell asleep who
is that good and I fell asleep in this
movie and I don't know how true it is
Steve Jobs is a big old jerk - oh yeah
like really yeah this is this is where I
was going is that I have mad respect for
leanness thorvald's yeah like he is a
brilliant man and he admits his flaws
and he is flawed and we're all flawed
and and backing up like we have such a
community mindset here and we care but I
have bad days right right and I have
stressful days and he is like the head
of this thing right when you have that
like flame of genius in your mind you
really need to protect it and I really
do think like he's a genius and Steve
Jobs just a genius oh come on now oh but
I think that that's I like how that went
that's our t-shirt for the week folks
sometimes you get so consumed by feeding
that because you know that like it
becomes your worth that you forget about
how you look to everybody else
I joked about it before our show tonight
about how incredibly particular I am
about certain things right behind the
scenes like just making sure that things
work and things are the way they have to
be set up the way that they should be
right but it's super respectable like I
respect the fact that you have have
figured it out you've plotted it out in
the future you know what may go wrong
and you you want to check it before it
happens right I'm I'm more like throw
caution to the wind I walk around with
reckless abandon I need like you but
when I can so imagine so if like I'm
small fries but leanness you know he is
that guy for Linux and so if somebody
steps in and and offers a commit that is
not up to his standard that is not in
line with the things and he's admittedly
brusque with people and and you know
very pointed with people and he says
it's you know he's just not a people
person he just he he likes to sit in
front
computer and that's his comfortable
place that's where he's comfortable and
and and he doesn't deal nicely with
people and he admits that and and so if
somebody is offering a commit he may
appreciate the commit but if he has to
go back and recoat it to make it work
the way that he wants it to look and
work and function and he yeah expects
people to instead follow that code of
conflict if you will the the here's how
the code should be do it that way that's
how we've laid it out I want you to when
you submit it I want it to be that way
so I I understand I admire and I respect
his position right as a delicately
emotion person right I need very maybe
I'm a millennial I don't know like I
need I just need a lot of positive
reinforcement if I put effort into
something so okay I say I go ahead and I
send him a kernel I don't know what I do
but I great I don't want to be told I'm
a bad person right it's a bad yeah thing
no absolute right but again he had he he
knows his flaws we know his flaws is his
community right and it takes people
skills and a willingness to be that
people person to like I as a father for
example and I incur I do my best to
encourage my children and you've been
through it as well like sometimes
sometimes the kids won't do things the
way that I want them to do it or maybe
you know the first time is always a
disaster but I still want I don't want
to blast them for doing it wrong no I
want to encourage you to be better and
and to learn but that's part of me as a
father
yes feedback sandwiches I learned this
in therapy where you must have thing
that makes constructive criticism and
then another positive thing what we need
to do to improve but that's not him
right and that's he's not our Father
he's not he doesn't love me he doesn't
love his
unity the way that I love my children
and so don't expect that of him so but I
think you may be right
I think I'm 100 percent I don't know
what do you think watch this show and he
was like Sasha's got it people should be
nice to each other I should start with
me let's grow my empathy lawsuit I like
it I like it
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson yeah
Jeff Weston it has been a pleasure
having you here with us this week you
see how did I was so nice so friendly
you've been good yeah
you know and that's how we can do it
around here so thank you thank you for
being a part of this community we
appreciate you there we go don't forget
to visit our website category 5 TV if
you're watching on YouTube don't forget
to like this video and also subscribe
hit the bell and you'll get the
notifications every time we bring out a
new video or when we are live how cool
is that check us out there have a great
week everybody we'll see you same time
same place next week good night
[Music]
