here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
raspberry PI's new TV add-on is out but
there's a catch for users in Canada in
the United States running a VMware
server virtualization product it's time
to check for patches as a bug in the
video system allows malicious code in
VMs to leap out of their guest OS and
execute code on the hosting server eight
d-link router variants are vulnerable to
a complete
ownage via combination of security
blunders and only two are going to get
patched card kernel has unveiled the
Odroid h2 the first hacker board with an
Intel Gemini Lake system on a chip these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
this is the category 5 dot TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
slave Linux by us Jeff Weston Gemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what
are you alright you're terrible actor
what this whereat thing comes into play
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host I'm Sasha Rickman and here
are the top stories were following this
week raspberry PI's new TV add-on is out
but there's a catch for users in Canada
in the US if you've got a raspberry pi
you can now attach a new raspberry pi TV
add-on to the single board computer and
then plug it into your home antenna to
receive and decode digital TV streams
users can then watch TV using a
Raspberry Pi or set it up so that the PI
streams TV contents to any computer or
mobile device on the same network as the
TV equipped Raspberry Pi the Raspberry
Pi TV hat has the same design as the
raspberry zero with the addition of an
aerial adapter to plug into a TV antenna
the TV hat cost just twenty dollars and
can be attached to any Raspberry Pi
board with a forty pin GPIO even the pi
zero there's a catch for Raspberry Pi
owners in Canada and the US though
because of the hats built-in DVP dvb-t
to tuner while the format has been
widely deployed in Europe Russia and the
asia-pacific it doesn't work here due to
this issue and for compliance reasons at
the moment the TV hat is only being
offered in Europe however the Raspberry
Pi foundation says that compliance work
is underway to open other dvb-t to
regions
I'm so disappointed that it's not
available I know
mazing thing that exists yeah but not
for you yeah sorry you know how to use
it
North American market you're out of luck
the first thing I did is as soon as I
heard the announcement that this was on
the market I started looking for a
United States or Canada vendor that had
it and nobody has it
so actually messaged USS you find it in
the state you know and and it was you
that and I searched this and then I went
online and said by the way Robbie yeah
doesn't work here it's weird it's a big
market like you think that they would
have a way but I guess it's compliant
when we have a different standard over
here for television Oh signal listing
and it's totally just wouldn't work here
t ATSC I believe what we have we no can
nothing if you look at the map on one of
the sites
it shows blue all over the all over
Europe and Asia and everything and
weirdin totally different color over
there I didn't even like cuz TV is TV to
me right you just turn it on it works I
know that their plugs are different but
that has nothing to do with it does it
no no Sarah Lee but this is digital
aerial broadcast so you think about like
the local news broadcasts and things
like that they actually they still have
a tower and they still broadcast it and
they broadcast digitally now so the
quality is actually quite a lot better
than we remember with Bush cable back in
the day right but you've got to be able
to have it you've got to have a tuner to
receive it which our TVs don't include
tuners anymore no I don't I don't think
I've seen one that has a tuner anymore
so so you can't just plug in antenna
into it and start watching TV right
Raspberry Pi so close and yet so far all
of my TV broadcasts are like all of my
TV watching happens on Netflix Internet
it's all internet-based
right whether it be Netflix or prime or
right the plex media server things like
that yeah it's all on the network yes
I'm thinking of plex media server it
would have been a great thing for me to
be able to get my hands on one of these
and you set it up so that it works with
Plex PI for example right the Debian
district for Raspberry Pi that lets
people use Plex Media Server we've
looked at it on the show yeah but I
can't do that because I can't get one
here and even if I did it wouldn't work
wouldn't work so will it will it kind of
send me the the growth of the software
development
well I would think I mean I reckon and
Canadian okay you can't get them yeah in
my mind that's like half the market like
half is Europe and then half is us right
50% of us can't use it right we're on
the wrong side of the ocean today turns
out and bp9 just mentioned in the chat
room is the u.s. TV was ntsc and and
right here who's pal so that's why dvds
are incompatible I didn't know that
either the differences Wow
very disappointing if you have one
though if you're in Europe and you have
the PI hat for the TV broadcasting we'd
love to hear how it works and loved it
to hear more I'm just disappointed that
I can't develop for it because we can't
get it or use it here in Canada when you
let us know how it works please do not
gloat too much yeah try not to try not
to running a VMware server
virtualization product it's time to
check for patches as a bug in the video
system allows malicious code in VMs to
leap out of their guest OS and execute
code on the hosting server get busy
VMware admin's
and users the virtualization virtuoso
has patched a programming blunder in
ESXi workstation pro and player and
fusion and fusion pro products that can
be exploited by malicious code to jump
from guest OS to host machine the bug
has been designed designated CVE 2018
6970 for the out of bounds read is
present in the products s VGA video
device emulation and if exploited allow
software within a guest operating system
to execute code on the host machine
in other words collation to get the big
the bug rated critical across most of
the affected products the vulnerable
versions include ESXi 6.0 six point five
and six point seven workstations 14 and
fusion 10 if you run one of these
products be sure to patch to secure the
exploit always hearing about all the
various exploits but this is a bad thing
to have happen if you've got a
virtualization hypervisor which a lot of
us a lot people do do now so that is
when people can okay tell me what that
is before I guess what it is
hypervisor so with virtualization
technology you can have one computer
running all kinds of computers inside of
it basically that's that's like so it's
okay so it's like okay so back in the
day so if we wanted to have a file
server mm-hmm it was a physical box on
the rack right and then we wanted to
have a web server another physical box
on the rack okay and then we want to
have a back at whatever and you're just
always adding more hardware and it's
using a lot of act Rissa T it's noisy it
generates Heat so you've got to cool the
room it costs a lot of money to operate
and you've got the more hardware you
have the more chances of crash crash
that if you have 10 systems you've got
one in ten could crash versus one system
maybe there's less chance of having it
fail so virtualization lets you have
many different servers in one physical
unit ok so then this exploit is actually
a doozy a big doozy yeah yeah I know a
lot of places use VMware I think the ESX
eyes are already patched you just got to
do it you've got to run the patch though
right now if you don't run the patch
then you had to but it was this and I
think who this really could impact bill
mm-hmm if probably doesn't impact me
probably doesn't impact you in such a
way that I choose a ssin hypervisor I'm
using it for my own things I have my own
servers and things like that and they're
all internal now if it was a web server
and somebody were able to exploit that
web server and then break out of the
virtual appliance and break into the
host operating system now you've got a
severe issue or if you're renting out
say you're a web host and you're sharing
server capacity by giving virtual
servers to your customers right one of
those customers had malicious purposes
and broke out of the virtual appliance
and now they've got access to the host
which presumably means they have access
to other virtual appliances and all
kinds of private stuff that they're not
meant to have access to all right and it
just snowballs from there good
so just probably patch your servers what
I'm saying that such as Mike died during
hurt my mic right there came back but it
it dropped out for about 15-20 seconds
oh did it really oh okay well there we
have it check your levels just to be
sure I have two bars how many do you
have three you got three so I didn't
stop him let us know in discord if we
have any more any more issues yeah
you've got the right thing cool you're
number one yes live TV there we go
all right let us know in in discord we
apologize for any technical issues that
we experienced tonight all right eight
complete ownage via a combination of
security blunders and only two are going
to get patched despite insisting patches
would be released four months ago four
months from now d-link hasn't addressed
the issue reported in May of this year
so the security researcher who found
them is releasing them to the public
that spells danger for d-link device
users for some of the affected devices
there will not be patches the vulnerable
units are all indie links DWR range the
DWR 116 145 12 647 twelve nine twelve
nine twenty one and DWR 111 most of
these will be left untouched because
d-link set has said that their end of
life only DWR 116 and 111 would be fixed
the full compromise of these devices
arises from a
cascade of several vulnerabilities they
require access to the devices web-based
Settings panel either on the local
network or from the internet depending
on the configuration data that can be
accessed by the attacker include
password files and guess what yes there
are passwords stored in plain text the
administrative password can be found in
clear text form in a temporary file the
exploit also allows an attacker the
ability to log into the router to inject
shell commands into the routers HTTP
webserver keep an eye out for patches if
they ever turn up you may want to turn
to a new firmware or even replace your
router if one doesn't exist again once
again once again we've got another yet
another exploit we're seeing this with
routers but passwords in plain text
right so if a compromising attack is
able to break into this router they can
get access to those passwords right have
administrator access mm-hmm then and I
always say it with a router what's the
first thing that someone can do they can
open up port 3389 mm-hmm and have remote
desktop access to any other computers on
your network they can see they can see
every computer on your network because
it's presumably got the DHCP table in
the router right which is where all your
IP addresses are so I don't compromise
everything are most people or are many
people running end-of-life d-link
routers or would you yeah yes so a lot
of people if it works they they ignore
it they put it in and forget about it
right and the firmware doesn't get
updated if the manufacturer doesn't
update the firmware right and they're
only considering two of these routers to
even be worth paying attention to right
so well that some of them are older so
they're not going to patch them anymore
yeah you can't you can't buy them new so
so I wonder if looking at something like
dd-wrt or tomato firmware might be an
option so as an option yeah you can look
at
third party open-source firmwares so my
router here runs dd-wrt mm-hmm so I can
continually keep up-to-date with the
latest firmware because the router
itself the firmware that came with it is
no longer supported so I don't run that
firmware right but but the problem is
how many home users like just generic
home users I mean like non techie maybe
not our viewers but just a regular home
user how many of us know how to flash a
firmware or even update our router yeah
so that's where it comes down to
hey if yours is old and not supported
maybe you might want to just replace it
I would think so like it wouldn't even
be on your radar like you I don't think
it like I wouldn't think about something
like this
no and you think of the hierarchy of
your network so when I'm on mine my home
Wi-Fi and I'm on my home network
accessing things I feel safe because I'm
in my network yeah now take the device
that connects that network to the
Internet and remove all security from it
and make it so that this person who you
don't know who they are has access to
right in my personal space as far as
networking goes all my files my printers
my packets mm-hmm everything so if you
have one call your niece or nephew or
whoever set up your network at home hard
colonel has unveiled the Odroid h2 the
first hacker board with an Intel Gemini
Lake system on a chip the aboon to 18
point 10 driven single board computer
will ship with a 2 SATA 3.0 ports 2
gigabyte Ethernet ports HDMI and
DisplayPort DisplayPort pardon me 4 USB
ports and if that's not impressive
enough for you it has an m2 slot for an
nvme storage when the Odroid h2 goes on
sale in november at a price that will be
higher than $100 hard colonel will join
a small group of vendors
have launched a community backed
x86-based SBC the Odroid project has
hoped I'd hope to be launching its
second or third gen x86 board by now
in 2015 the project started working on a
no droid HSBC however there were
problems with ram sourcing and the
overall cost of manufacturing was too
high in 2016 the company built in Odroid
h1 based on an Intel Braswell's Celeron
and 3160 the board was successfully used
in a dedicated project but hard colonel
decided not to release it publicly due
to ram shortages and concerns that the
processor was no longer competitive they
considered an AMD risin 5 2500 you but
it was too expensive then Intel
announced Gemini Lake at the end of last
year which seemed to be just right heard
Colonel says it was slower than risin
but much faster than Intel Apollo Lake
and the price was reasonable one
argument for x86 hacker boards is that
Linux drivers tend to work more reliable
than on a typical arm board the
downsides are a high price and high
power consumption however the Odroid
project is claiming a reasonable 14 watt
conception the consumption under CPU
stress and a 4 watt idle earlier this
year hard colonel had another false
start with a no droid and one board once
again due to ram sourcing issues with
the Odroid h2 launched set for only a
few weeks away we're confident that the
third time around the x86 merry-go-round
will be the charm heart kernel may need
to work on its supply chain management
but it tends to make high quality while
supported boards backed up by a thriving
community the Odroid h2 will ship with a
boon to 18 point 10 which was just
released last week another great board
from Odroid yeah looking forward to this
one if I'm on the waiting game are you
how did you get on the waiting list
after people call my people
wow we were talking before the show
about hard
kind of distribution of the Oldroyd
products it can be a little bit you get
on a waiting list right because the well
you know Maury how I mean things take
time did here from South Korea yeah yeah
been done who's rowing the boat
now they say ship they they do scheduled
shipping they don't they don't ship
daily I don't think they'll do mass
shipping's so they wait until so much a
sold is that kind of the idea and some
of them do that I doubt that they'll
have to wait long before some of those I
think this one's gonna be big yeah and
and when a new product like this comes
out it's like all of the supply is gone
right first couple of days and I and
that's we even saw that with the odor I
go it was gone in the first little while
like then you couldn't get one they
actually for did that as well yeah and
then they restock and the remanufacture
more and and so it'll be interesting to
see how this one goes but what has you
excited about this one I like the fact
that it's Intel I mean trying to get
some of these single board computers
with the OS is forum you don't have the
sometimes there's just one guy writing
rejigging the software no yeah yeah it's
not a huge like your shirt by the way I
like them sometimes it's just one guy
it's true and and and that's not just
the operating system right but as you
got to get all the drivers to work
drivers and other supplementary software
sometimes it doesn't compile well on arm
right I have trouble with some programs
that I just you know booth because of
dependencies and things like that it was
really hard to get them to compile on a
Raspberry Pi or Zacks you for so this
opens that way up way you'd load just
about anything on this thing it's an x86
right paddle computer so and live tiny
square looking forward to it
[Laughter]
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman I'm Robbie and I'm bill just
quickly according to coin gecko here's
what the crypto market is looking like
at 1700 hours as of Wednesday October
24th when we recorded the show Bitcoin
lost one hundred thirty eight dollars
and sixty two cents u.s. at 6500 twenty
six dollars and six cents
litecoin fifty two dollars and seventy
eight cents so it's down as well a
couple bucks almost a theory um went
down to 204 20 min arrow 106 o seven US
dollars stellite is well it we don't
seem to have numbers on stellite
unfortunately this week turtle coin is
the one coin that actually got a little
bit of a gain but it's such a min ute
infraction I mean we're talking zero
point zero six ten thousandth of a
second growth is growth there you go
it's on its way up is is now worth zero
point three eight ten thousandth of a
cent
nice way to go little guy need a couple
of billion of those yeah a couple
billion
[Music]
[Applause]
