here at category 5 TV i love cameras
obviously i think so cameras are a great
tool and these days cameras have evolved
astronomically I mean we went from
little action cams that shot very poor
video people using cell phones to shoot
video to now the DJI Osmo 4k action cam
oh boy we've stepped outside of the
paradigm of a video camera now and you
may have seen the DJI Osmo where you can
put your phone on a 3-axis gimbal and
that's cool but I'm gonna tell you if I
wanted to shoot video with my phone then
maybe that's the answer it's like this
you know you gotta have finger in the
way it just looks miserable plain and
simple he's got a lens that's this big
and then you gotta go into your iCloud
that's gonna say when we when you're
deleting stuff off your hard drive that
reminds me of my iCloud everyday oh yeah
similar kind of snow should i delete
this fond memory to get this fond memory
yeah well I I'm not one to like video
that's shot with a cell phone or
pictures that are taken on the cell
phone so this is the next evolution in
the DJI a DJI Osmo series and it
includes DJ eyes 4k action camera and
this is you know similar camera to what
you would see on their drones and
similar kind of gimbal system should we
fire it up and actually take a look yeah
first of all okay switch what more
switch more switch now it's kind of
flimsy and feels kind of like to get a
disco ball yeah it just spins and spins
right Wow let's fire it up and see what
happens when I take this skiing whoa
when you like the music in the
background hahaha I mean hit record here
and let's see what with us Wow so it's
the same DJI Osmo system as far as the
gimbal how it functions and everything
like that so i have now if i turn it
around here you can see i have a control
pad here this is like a thumb pad that
can control the actual camera move it
around
oh I've got a couple of different
controls I've got a trigger right here
so if i want to quickly shoot at you i
can do that if i click on it three times
it's gone into selfie mode so now i'm
actually looking it really really
quickly spins around nice and smooth
video but pan is so nice hey Sasha I
love it so you see what what the gimbal
system does is it makes it so that even
though this is a handheld camera even
though I'm moving moving it like this
it's nice and stationary and nice and
smooth right so it kind of has an
intelligence to it and moves in a nice
smooth fluid motion it also looks
amazing you're feeling like it's like a
futuristic robot and it's like making
the video camera seems so obsolete now
totally different paradigm a it's a
different I'm recording here to a
microSD card from Kingston and it just
records directly and there you have it
Wow a couple of specifications let's
talk about the camera itself shall we
yes okay so the camera as I said it's a
4k action cam the camera itself shoots
in either 24 or 25 p so its cinematic
mode looks absolutely incredible and you
get some really nice smooth video there
look at that like you can see how much
I'm moving it around here and doesn't it
also have Wi-Fi firm it does have Wi-Fi
so you can actually fire up your app on
your phone so djigo has this app let me
pull it up for you so that you can
actually see this and you know the apps
are never something that I like to
necessarily focus on with a with a
review but in DJ eyes case it is kind of
cool that you can set this up as as
something that is going to allow you to
control and view what's on the camera
screen so this becomes a bit of a
monitor for the camera so all i have to
do i need to connect to this as
basically a Wi-Fi network so the camera
has a built-in Wi-Fi transmitter so on
my phone I just have to bring up my
Wi-Fi settings it says i'm connected to
osmo and now i can bring up the DJI Go
app
and almost immediately I've got video
coming off of the camera there we are
okay so with that video now I'm hitting
record there you go look at how smooth
this is as I move the camera around
right now Oh your badges lost connection
oh no I didn't it just brought up my
Wi-Fi settings for some reason let's try
again all right here we go kind of felt
like I lost connection there but it was
actually just my phone there you go okay
so it's a little bit choppy you can see
that but it is just a monitor the video
itself here you are it's not choppy it
looks good there you go and I'm moving
the camera around all over the place
what I like is that you can get these
nice smooth videos even though you know
my hand is shaky right I've been
drinking a lot of coffee today and I
don't have any milk my coffee so should
you there you have it specifications
why's it shoots up to 120 frames a
second at 10 in 1080p mode so you get a
really nice slow motion but you can also
shoot the 4k as I mentioned it up to 25
frames a second so it's not slow motion
at 4k but it's nice crystal clear video
and that gimbal system really gives you
a nice smooth video and I'm still
connected here you can go apparently you
can take this up to about 85 yeah on the
transmitter and that's crazy well you
figure like say you were in the field
with me yeah you could hold this yeah I
could be walking around with the camera
doing run and gun and you you can see
what's going on and control the the
shots from here so I can actually do
some controls with my finger here on the
screen and I'm not overly familiar with
the entire controls but there are
controls here that I can work with the
with the screen itself and that's the
DJI Go app but from here I've got full
control over the camera entirely the
gimbal of course is built-in everything
is built-in it supports time-lapse video
and does some super smooth panoramas I
don't know if you've ever seen anything
that can quite do this but let's just
say you know I'm gonna put the camera
here 60 yeah okay so then so if I go off
a ski jump and I do it 360 the camera
will follow me
huh don't know how you figure maybe this
is a running gun camera so you've got to
have somebody operating this this isn't
one that you're gonna put on your helmet
or anything like that right I'll get
some algeta so I should go beside me you
seein this yeah it's just going and
going now there is a stop if I speed it
up here you'll see it only goes to there
so that was what about three rotations
yeah I'd say somewhere around there the
smartphone holder there is a smartphone
holder that will place your your phone
right here does which is pretty cool the
photo burst you can do seven shots per
photo first you know what that's pretty
cool because you can take pictures like
that veteranism' action camera shots
that's the only way I ever get a good
shot as if it's a if it's the photo
burst I do the burst and then I'm just
like okay that one not those ones to
delete so that's the DJI Osmo and that's
the 4k camera built into the gimbal you
guys think of that you can pick one up
at cap five dot TV / osmo and that's
spelled OS m oh there you go well far
the coolest camera I've ever seen any
questions about that one I do like that
anything in the news it's it's a
different feel to it then using any kind
of you know other action camera that
I've ever used it's different and you
can't mount it to anything like and the
fact that it's just one hand use it
keeps a whole other end free when I used
to hold the camera I'd have my hand here
you know and with the gimbal system you
don't have to worry about holding it
perfectly smooth either it does have a
tripod mount on the side here but it's a
little bit strange because it's on the
side 19 yeah so if you put it on a
tripod the cameras gonna be looking the
wrong way so not too sure on that one
but that's the whole 36 yeah yeah but
that does allow us to have some
expandability as long as the tripod has
a vertical vertical mode all right we'll
check it out is cap five dot TV / osmo
and you'll be able to check out that
camera and find out more about it now
this is the first of a two-part series
on action cams and we're going to be
comparing all of our action cams
together tonight was the first one and
we've got a showdown
next week on episode 481 and on that
episode we're going to be comparing the
quality of several 4k action cam so you
don't wanna miss out on that especially
if it's on your Christmas list or you're
planning on picking one up for somebody
you want to make sure you check that out
and find out what what one's going to be
the best for your use case
[Music]
you
