hello my name is Carrie and my name is
10 and on stage show we're going to do
living in the danger zone part 2 the
sermon of season we'll be right back
[Music]
this
hi everyone welcome back to new every
day and today is a new day and we're
opening up the Word of God to learn
something new today because I was just
chatting with a friend deceased Jen and
he was he said oh like you've got your
Bible sitting there I said yeah that's
what I was it it is the one book that I
can learn something new every single day
even if I've read the same passage every
day and that's like the miraculous power
of God yes and like I'm not ashamed to
say that because day after day in my own
life God is showing me new and amazing
things and I really like the prayer in
psalm 119 where David says open my eyes
and I might see wonderful wonderful
things in your law yes and that's our
prayer today and we're going to just get
right back in for what we're going to
get right back in to Stephens sermon or
the sermon of Stephen and like I confess
last last week I have read there's
probably 20 or 30 times if not more and
it's interesting when you choose to
actually get into something all of a
sudden it becomes a live like the Word
of God is living and active right and it
speaks was just like Kerry said like you
can read like the same passion ago I
didn't even see that and for so I asked
Kerry a question as we were preparing I
said why do so many of the passages that
whenever there's this big long sermon do
they always go back and in my mind I
have tended just to go back as in like
go back through Old Testament na we hear
about Abraham and we hear about Moses
and we hear about solvent and we hear
and I'm just like come on I already know
the story they already know the story
like why are they doing this and so to
be honest I just read those passages my
fast because I know the story
pastoral confession right as I was
reading this I said but Lord what is
going on so I had listened a few podcast
beforehand and I was listening to what
other people were saying I was like pops
in there
because when we skip or we
think we know it and that is Sookie we
think we know what's in the passage so
we don't read it and a friend of mine
actually confessed once he's like you
know when you're reading a book and it
gets to the Bible passage and you know
what the Bible passages so you just skip
it I've done that okay I've done that
I've done it too and I was like I mean
we're not supposed to do that and and he
was confessing he's like but the reason
it's in there is because it made a huge
impact in their life yes and I was like
I was so convicted and so it's convicted
again as I read this and just went Lord
what have I missed because I thought I
knew I find you know one of my favorite
quotes is by a Christian apologist in
Canada a doctor named dr. Joe poot and
he said a sure barrier to the truth is
the assumption that you already have it
ha I was like yeah that's exactly how I
felt like but so often I cuz it's a long
chapter and I'm like Lord I don't have
time to read all of chapter 7 yeah and
yet okay all of chapter 7 and so I'm
just like okay like hurry up let's get
through this yeah and but then you miss
out right so we're going to read it and
we want you because you have to remember
this is coming off of the setting from
last week right so Stephen is being
accused and because he's saying it's not
about the temple it's about God it's
about worshiping God from your heart
it's not about worshiping God at the
temple is that worshiping God wherever
you're at from your heart and and they
are just getting all up in arms about
this and so now Stephen actually says
and this is what I think this is why
this is why I'm saying what I'm saying
yeah base be gone yes based on our faith
this is why I'm saying what we're saying
yeah so we want you as we read through
to look for those things that start
rising up and you know oh I see we sing
oh I see what you're saying and that so
well then when we get to the end we're
going to discuss some of those so we're
going to read from the beginning of
chapter 7 to
verse 53 here we go then the high priest
asked Stephen are these accusations true
and the accusations were we've heard him
say that Jesus of Nazareth will destroy
the temple and change the customs of
Moses this is Stephens reply brothers
and fathers listen to me our glorious
God appeared to our ancestor Abraham in
Mesopotamia before he settled in Haran
God told him leave your native land and
your relatives and come into the land
that I will show you so Abraham left the
land of the Chaldeans and lived in Haran
until his father died then God brought
him here to the land where you now live
but God gave him no inheritance here not
even one square foot of land God did
promise however that eventually the
whole land would belong to Abraham and
his descendants even though he had no
children yet God also told him that his
descendants would live in foreign land
where they would be oppressed as slaves
for 400 years but I will punish the
nation that enslaves them God said and
in the end they will come out and
worship me here in this place God also
gave Abraham the Covenant of
circumcision at that time so when
Abraham became the father of Isaac he
circumcised him on the eighth day and
the practice was continued when Isaac
became the father of Jacob and when
Jacob became the father of the twelve
patriarchs of the Israelite nation these
patriarchs were jealous of their brother
Joseph and they sold him to be a slave
in Egypt but God was with him
and rescued him from all his troubles
and God needs him favored before Pharaoh
king of Egypt God also gave Joseph
unusual wisdom so that the Pharaoh
appointed him governor over all of Egypt
and put him in charge of the palace but
a famine came upon Egypt and Canaan
there was great misery and our ancestors
ran out of food Jacob heard that there
was still grain in Egypt so he sent his
sons our ancestors to buy some the
second time they went joseph revealed
his identity to his brothers and they
were introduced to pharaoh then Joseph
sent for his father Jacob and all his
relatives to come to Egypt 75 persons in
all
so Jacob went to Egypt he died there as
did our ancestors their bodies were
taken to Shechem and buried in the tomb
Abraham had bought for a certain price
from hammers son in Shechem out of time
drew near when God would fulfill his
promise to Abraham the number of our
people in Egypt greatly increased but
then a new king king came to the throne
of Egypt who knew nothing about Joseph
this King exploited our people and
oppressed them forcing parents to have
been in their newborn babies so that
they would die at that time Moses was
born a beautiful child in God's eyes his
parents cared for him at home for three
months when they had to abandon him
pharaoh's daughter adopted him and
raised him as her own son Moses was
taught all the wisdom of the Egyptians
he was powerful in both speech and
action one day when Moses was 40 years
old he decided to visit his relatives
the people of Israel he saw an Egyptian
mistreating an injury late so Moses came
to the man's defense and avenged him
killing the Egyptian Moses assumed his
fellow Israelites would realize that God
had sent him to rescue them but they
didn't the next day he visited them
again and saw two men of Israel fighting
he tried to be a peacemaker and he said
your brother's why are you fighting each
other but the man in the wrong pushed
Moses aside who are you who made you a
ruler and judge over us he asked are you
going to kill me and you killed that
Egyptian yesterday when Moses heard that
he fled the country and lived as a
foreigner in the land of Midian there
his two sons were born 40 years later in
the desert near Mount Sinai an angel
appeared to Moses in the flame of a
burning bush when Moses saw it he was
amazed at the sight as he went to take a
closer look the voice of the Lord called
out to him I am the god of your
ancestors the God of Abraham Isaac and
Jacob Moses shook with terror and did
not dare to look then the Lord said to
him take off your sandals for you are
standing on holy ground I have certainly
seen the oppression of my people in
Egypt I have heard their groans and has
come
to rescue them now go for I'm sending
you back to Egypt so God sent back the
same man his people have previously
rejected when they demanded who made you
a ruler and judge over us through the
angel who appeared to him in the burning
bush God sent Moses to be their ruler
and Savior and by means of many wonders
and miraculous signs he led them out of
Egypt through the Red Sea and through
the wilderness for forty years Moses
himself told the people of Israel God
will raise up for you a prophet like me
from among your own people Moses was up
with our ancestors the Assembly of God's
people in the wilderness when an angel
spoke to him at Mount Sinai and there
Moses received life-giving words to pass
on to us but our ancestors refused to
listen to Moses they rejected him and
wanted to return to Egypt they told
Aaron make us some gods who can lead us
for we don't know what has become of
this Moses who brought us out of Egypt
so they made an idol shaped like a calf
and he sacrificed to it and celebrated
over this thing that they had made then
God turned away from them and abandoned
them to serve the stars of heaven as
their God in the book of the Prophet
that is written what is it to me you you
were bringing sacrifices and offerings
during those forty days oh it was it to
me you were bringing sacrifices and
offerings during those forty years in
the wilderness Israel no you carried
your pagan gods the shrine is Malin the
star of your God reference and the
images you made to worship them so I
will send you into exile as far away as
Babylon our our ancestors carry the
tabernacle with them through the
wilderness
it was constructed according to the plan
God had shown to Moses years leader when
Joshua led our ancestors in battle
against the nations that God drove out
of his land the tabernacle was taken
with them into their new territory and
it stayed there until the time of King
David David found favor with God and
asked for the privilege of building a
permanent temple for the God of Jacob
but it was Solomon who actually built it
however the most high does not live in
temples made by
hands as the Prophet says heaven is my
throne and the earth is my footstool
could you build me a temple as good as
that asks the Lord could you build me
such a resting place dude in my hand
make both heaven and earth you stubborn
people
you are heathen at heart and deaf to the
truth unless you forever resist the Holy
Spirit that's what your ancestors did
and so do you
name one prophet your ancestors didn't
persecute they even killed the ones who
predicted the coming of the righteous
one the Messiah whom you betrayed and
murdered you deliberately disobey God's
law even though you received it from the
hands of angels the Jewish leaders were
infuriated by Stephens accusation
acquisition activation and they shook
their fist at him in rage there's a
synopsis of the Old Testament we're
going to take a breather and come right
back
be right back Geoff Weston Jemma you're
building a brand-new beautiful website
what aren't you all right
you're terrible actor what that's where
acting comes into play oh I don't know
where are they you're supposed to act
okay I'm building a really cool website
are you building a really cool website
you need hosting one of the things about
a hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's true how much hard drive space you
have how many email accounts how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just $5 and a bit of change per
month you are going to get unlimited web
site hosting unlimited email accounts on
that hosting service you are also going
to receive a free domain name the roof
of your own com dice to put that amazing
website that you've been working on on
there if you run if you want to build a
wordpress site fine sign up cat 5 GB
flash dream host still competitive a
person just don't do it but
it's a great deal folks best deal you're
going to find five dollars and change
per month go to cap five dot TV / dream
host hey welcome back to new every day
we just read a synopsis of the Old
Testament given to us by Stephen which
was his sermon to the people who were
bringing these accusations against him
yes and as Kerry was reading I was
listening again and reading along and
just realizing Abraham what did God say
to Abraham follow me
what did God say to Moses follow me what
did you know he called them out of Egypt
- what follow him and David is like well
I want to make you a permanent place to
worship you and and it's interesting
because like they say isaiah 66:1
okay where it says heaven is my throne
and the earth is my footstool where is
the house you will build for me where's
my resting where my resting place where
is the house you will build for me where
is my resting place has not my hand made
all these things and so they came into
being declares Lord and then I was going
to say this is the one I esteem he who
is humble and contrite in spirit and
trembles at my word but whoever
sacrifices a bullet is like the one who
kills a man and whoever offers a lamb is
like the one who breaks a dog's neck
whoever makes a grain offering is it
like the one who presents like he's
saying the thing because it's not about
to sacrifice if it's not given to me out
of a heart of worship if you're doing it
just to do it and that's why it says why
are you sacrificing if and and that's
why he brings in like you carried up
your old gods you were sacrificing to
your old gods you weren't sacrificing to
me you were sacrificing to your old gods
because I just want you to follow me I
didn't want to have the relations and
like that's what he's saying like all
the way through this like abraham
believed God and it was credited to him
as righteousness God appeared to Moses
in the burning bush and though Moses
struggled with believing he finally
believed and went
and it says nobody's like there's no
friendship like Moses's and gods like he
was a friend of God and and I'm just as
I read through this like and this is
what Steven is getting - it's not about
- doing like what is the content of your
heart the temple was so fort because
that was their identity right their
religious identity was in the temple the
religious identity was not in God being
in their heart and then living out of
that yeah and that's what Steven was
getting around to he's like look at this
like it isn't we put so much emphasis on
the temple but really what is like why
are we putting emphasis on the top
because it's the house of God yeah and
if it's the house of God then shouldn't
we be doing this because we want to meet
with the Lord not just because it's the
right thing to do and and I it later on
in the New Testament sited that what
what has more glory the temple that was
made or the one who made it
hmm like the piece of art itself or the
artist who made it yes and God has put
like pieces of his glory on us as we
were made in His image that we are now
the Temple of the Holy Spirit yes
regardless inside of us renewing us day
by day to reflect his image more and
more yes and actually I was thinking
back of when they were trying to test
Jesus and they said they showed him a
great coin and they said should we pay
taxes to Caesar yes and Jesus said whose
inscription whose image is on that coin
they said it's Caesars we said we'll
give to Caesar what is Caesar's and give
to God what is God and whose images on
us yes it's God's image and we need to
give that to God and he fills us with
Holy Spirit and we become the temple of
God yes because it end here yes you
stiff-necked people with uncircumcised
hearts and ears you are just like your
fathers you always resist the Holy
Spirit was there ever a prophet your
fathers did not persecute because the
problems were sent to draw the people
back to God yes and so he's like and
right there is the stiff-necked people
with uncircumcised hearts it's like
you're not willing to hear and that's
what you know you go back to the setting
from last week the people weren't
willing to hear what Stephen was saying
because it went against everything that
they believed and this is what we talked
about and so this is where we need to
look into our own hearts and go Lord
where am i stiff necked where am i
uncircumcised in my heart where am i
withholding the gift yes where am i
resisting the Holy Spirit which when you
get into first Thessalonians and it says
don't quench the Holy Spirit like if the
Holy Spirit is sort of you sure and it's
hard to explain when the Holy Spirit is
moving in a person's heart but you sort
of just get this
oh is that what I'm supposed to do and
you're like no no no like I well I feel
like I should you know go clean that
person's house oh no no no you don't
have time for that right and you've just
sort of resisted the Holy Spirit because
you start thinking I can't do I can't do
I can't do or the Lord the Holy Spirit
touches your heart says I want you to
teach that sometimes oh I I'm not
qualified I don't have time the kids
won't like me and it's like you're
resisting you're being stiff-necked and
so and then they get angry right they
were accused because they were accused
and we're going to end it right there
the hold on he'll next week so I think
we just need to start saying yes totally
spirit when he's prompting us can you
just pray for us Jenn sure huh so
Heavenly Father we thank you so much for
this passage from the book of Acts and
Stevens sermon and Lord he's living in
the danger zone because he's calling
people out and people don't want to hear
it and so father we ask for open ears to
hear what it is that the Spirit is
saying to us and our heart to response
and so father thank you for this
opportunity
to gather around your word and speakers
help us to live it out walk it out to
phrase in your name Amen thanks so much
for tuning in and we're going to see you
you
