here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom the
Raspberry Pi foundation has updated its
compute module with better thermals and
updated application processor and more
flash memory Facebook has revealed plans
to integrate whatsapp Instagram and
messenger Apple says it's banning
Facebook's research app that collects
users personal information an IBM hopes
1 million faces will help fight bias and
facial recognition these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories we put the slave Linux by us
Geoff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what
aren't you your terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash DreamHost
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
DreamHost I'm Sasha Rickman and here the
top stories were following this week the
flash memory the computer all three plus
a system on module s bushes and som
board is part of a hardware family
that's been around since 2014 with the
launch of the CM one that module had a
single core core ARM processor clocked
to 700 megahertz 512 megabytes of RAM
and a 4 gigabyte e/m e MMC three years
later the compute module 3 was released
with a 1.2 gigahertz processor of the PI
3 and what and 1 gigabyte of RAM here we
are two years later and the compute
module 3 plus is carrying on the
tradition adding the processor from the
PI 3 B+ into the mix it's the size of a
DDR to Sodom Sodom and will happily plug
into a ddr2 soddom connector but don't
go slotting it into your PC because the
pins don't do the same thing at all this
is after all a complete computer the
module is aimed at those wishing to
embed their Raspberry Pi into their
devices with a form factor more suitable
for the task all data and power is dealt
with via the ddr2 soddom like connector
making it for a very compact device the
PI Foundation points to the likes of
ICI is an example where the electronics
giant has used the diminutive board as
the heart of some monstrous digital
signage it also it has also made an
appearance in media players and
industrial control systems the copy of
module 3 plus is a drop-in replacement
for the previous versions from a form
factor in electrical perspective however
power supply limitations will keep the
CPU at 1.2 gigahertz instead of the 1.4
gigahertz of the full size pi pi 3 v
plus storage is perhaps the biggest
change there are now 8 16 and 32
gigabyte very good gigabyte 30 at 35 and
40 dollars respectively there is also a
Flash's version for those that need it
the foundation plans to keep compute
module 3 plus available until at least
January 2026 and inwards that will bring
joy to Pi fans of the world over stated
that this is the last in a line of 40
nanometer based Raspberry Pi products
indicating a clearing of the decks
before the next generation makes an
appearance wonderful so we're going to
see you know big upgrades as far as
those kinds of SOC s go
now I have to say sodium the sodium
chips yes because somehow Sodom sounds
more like raw sodium I know so many
technical terms on category 5 TV but
basically think of a RAM module and it's
a full computer right within the the the
connector of a sodium so you're able to
plug it into like multi you know you've
got a board that has multiple connectors
and can plug those in and boom you've
got computers and now with the Raspberry
Pi 3 B+ right built on board which is
pretty sweet so it's very exciting
mm-hmm I love single board computers I
love like I'm starting to get into
making
more and more like I'm working on things
with MEMS Linux where you know I'm
soldering connectors to different things
and so these kinds of chips are pretty
cool or perfect what I think is most
exciting though for the Raspberry Pi
fans is that we're finally maybe gonna
see an end of line to the older like the
40 nanometers and moving on to faster
boards maybe if we can get away from
that then we can get past the one
gigabyte of RAM limitation of the SOC
which for me is a real limitation of the
Raspberry Pi and it doesn't matter which
model you have being limited and capped
off at 1 gigabyte of ram is just like
that's killer it's like really it you
really can't do a lot with 1 gig of ram
anymore unless you're doing like
certainly I mean there are obviously use
cases where a Raspberry Pi is fantastic
you know you're you're making little
maker trinkets or whatever uses maker
trinkets I don't know the stuff that I'm
doing though like the programming that
I'm doing really benefits from like 2
gigabytes or higher of RAM so anything
at the one gigabyte cap of a Raspberry
Pi seems to be you know like a
performance suffers and you really start
to you know I have to start working with
Z Ram in the kernel and compressing the
ram compressing the temp folder and
things like that into Ram and so it
really becomes tough so hopefully we're
gonna see in the next couple of years
because it seems to be every two years
or so that's right now we're gonna see
something kind of shift there with
Raspberry Pi
it's good to have a book has revealed
plans to integrate whatsapp Instagram
and messenger while all three will
remain standalone apps at a much deeper
level they will be linked so messages
can travel between the different
services the plan was first reported in
the New York Times and is believed to be
a personal project that Facebook's
founder Mark Zuckerberg once complete
the merger would mean that a Facebook
user could communicate directly with
someone who only has whatsapp account
this is currently impossible as the
applications have no
common core the work to merge the three
elements has already begun and is
expected to be completed by the end of
2019 or earlier next year Facebook
probably didn't want to talk about this
in the middle of a privacy scandal but
its hand was forced by insiders taking
to the New York Times until now whatsapp
Instagram and messenger have been run as
separate and competing products
integrating the messaging parts might
simplify Facebook's work it wouldn't
need to develop competing versions of
new features such as stories which all
three apps have added with inconsistent
results cross-platform messaging may
also lead the way for businesses on one
platform to message potential customers
on another and it may make it easier for
Facebook to share data across the three
platforms to help its targeted
advertising efforts but bigger still it
makes Facebook's suite of apps a much
tighter inter woven collection of
services that could make the key parts
of Facebook's Empire more difficult to
break up and spin off if governments and
regulators decide that it is necessary
linking the three systems marks a
significant change as Facebook at
Facebook
now as before now it has let Instagram
and whatsapp operate as largely
independent companies the decision comes
as Facebook faces repeated
investigations and criticisms over the
way it is handled and safeguarded user
data comprehensive linking user data at
a fundamental level may prompt
regulators to take another look at its
data handling practices hmm so I don't
have facebook you don't anymore yeah I
do not anymore but many of my family
members still do and I to be honest
before I read the story didn't know that
whatsapp was even like a relative out of
their family yeah I know I don't have
whatsapp right now but it has like I
have in the past thought oh yeah maybe
I'll get whatsapp because it's easy when
my family's on vacation so Leo's message
cuz it's just like so what if it could
communicate with Facebook right be
convenient yeah
I don't I don't hate that I think that
coming from know so I know that you want
to talk on the privacy end and the data
privacy and data collection and all that
kind of stuff but for me this coming
from a company who cut off XMPP from
their offerings so this is a protocol
that's open that is able to communicate
with pidgin and other third-party
applications and being able to connect
maybe it would have made messenger
something that could have been used with
if this then that a lot easier you know
without having to hack around it so so
keeping in mind so this is a company
that wants to keep everything that they
do internal they don't want to open it
up to allow other platforms to you to
use it discord it took me an afternoon
to write
bridge to be able to communicate
directly with IRC right it's wonderful
oh yeah the API is there and it's open
and as its able to yeah there's such a
freedom and such a flexibility there so
Facebook wanting to hey let's make it so
that it the internal behind-the-scenes
communicates together I think it's a
good idea from a user perspective but is
it the right approach see I I mean as
soon as Sasha started reading the story
I'm going no don't like it because but
why so right now one of the appeals to
people using whatsapp is the encryption
and then the fact that your
conversations are protected your so keep
in mind could this mean that Facebook is
gonna have end-to-end encryption and
messenger and everything else well
possibly but at the same time I don't
think that's the key issue because right
now whatsapp is it's it's - your phone
it is the encrypted conversation and I
know for different groups that I that I
organize that I'm part of like
organizations some of the conversations
we have this makes it sound like we're
doing something bad but we want the
encryption encrypted conversations
because you know we might have a
conversation here about this topic that
we don't want getting out for privacy
reasons there are other members yeah and
so with that we've
adopted to whatsapp because of the
encryption to it and I'm just seeing a
whole plethora of issues of integrating
this into Facebook it's like oh no you
can message your facebook on on what
time and suddenly you lose that privacy
aspect sure because when it comes to
Facebook I find that quite frankly the
world is not very conscious of does
Facebook not own whatsapp right now they
own it but it's a standalone okay it's a
separate application business right they
don't talk and so now Facebook is
looking to make everything talk and
they're all gonna cross-platform and I
mean we know all the issues that people
have had with Facebook and we know all
the issues that people have with
computers and malware and ransomware and
spyware and everybody loves Facebook on
their computer so suddenly you're
cooking connecting with a whatsapp
conversation group and it's all on your
Facebook it's like come on I I feel like
in Facebook's defense well here we go
that there's no way with what has been
coming out in the media about them
lately that encryption is not top of
mind for them sure I feel like it has
got to be the start of every
conversation that they have right so I
think that they would not forgo the
privacy aspect of whatsapp to integrate
it with messenger I think we instead
they use the strengths of whatsapp and
it's a great those into messenger like I
think that that's what they would do
well possibly but what I'm trying to get
it's not the fact that they're foregoing
the privacy aspect in the end and the
protection of it its fact you're not
opening it up right like I mean that's
like saying hey I can only ever carpool
with one other person in my car because
I don't like people on my car so they
hey look I'm gonna have three people to
my car and like just as soon as you
start opening up you have issues and I
don't like this and the amount of times
that Facebook's been hammered and
hammered again from privacy issues and
data collection issues I think this is
just gonna open up a whole other issue
it's a lawsuit waiting abbott as a
Facebook user Jeff is their biggest fan
yep we'll see how it shapes up
Apple says it's banning Facebook's
research app that collects users
personal information Facebook is at the
center of another privacy scandal and
this time it hasn't just angered users
it is also angered Apple Apple says
Facebook broke an agreement it made with
Apple by publishing a research app for
iPhone users that allow the social giant
to collect all kinds of personal data
about those users the app allowed
Facebook to track users app history
their private messages and their
location data
Facebook's research effort reportedly
targeted users as young as 13 years old
as of last summer apps that collects
that kind of data are against Apple's
privacy guidelines that means Facebook
couldn't make this research app
available through the App Store which
would have required Apple approval
instead Facebook apparently took
advantage of Apple's developer
Enterprise program which lets approved
Apple partners like Facebook test and
distribute apps specifically for their
own employees in those cases the
employees can use third-party services
to download beta versions of apps that
aren't available to the general public
Apple doesn't review and approve those
these apps the way it does for the App
Store because they're only supposed to
be downloaded by employees who work for
the apps creator Facebook though use
this program to pay non employees as
much as $20 per month to download the
research app without apple's knowledge
Apple's response via PR rep this morning
we designed our enterprise developer
program solely for the internal
distribution of apps within an
organization Facebook has been using
their membership to distribute a data
collecting app to consumers which is a
clear breach of their agreement with
Apple any developer using their
enterprise certificates to distribute
apps to customers their tucán consumers
will have their certificates revoked
which is what we did in this case to
protect our users and their data
Facebook pushed back on the idea that it
did anything wrong in collecting the
users data Facebook says that this
program has been ongoing since 2016
which could be evidence that the company
wasn't trying to skirt Apple's new
policies Facebook did not however
comment on whether or not it violated
Apple's policies by distributing the app
through the developer Enterprise program
there are a lot of reasons Facebook
wants to know what apps people are using
which explains why it went to such
lengths to get around Apple's App Store
guidelines it's unclear if Facebook's
actual data collection through this
research app poses any risks to the
company Facebook did pay users for using
the app but Facebook is also under
investigation from the FTC which is
looking into its data privacy practices
anything that feels fishy will most
certainly attract regulators attention
fantastic just what we needed another
Facebook story about their data
collection policies I should rest my
case on the previous news oh yeah just
on this let's move on seriously
I know what I Facebook builds their
business off data collection so if
they're gonna find a loophole to utilize
something to collect data they're gonna
do it well if I pay you $20 and you sign
an agreement I pay you $20 a month
you're now an employee well exactly I've
gotten around the terms and conditions
of the Apple Developer Network
necessarily well because you've got laws
that determine employees what may be a
freelance employee freelance does not
count contract
don't chew kiss a look at her yeah okay
Courtney feels but I'm just saying like
is that is that a justification like it
$20 a month is that a way of saying no
well you're looking at it from a legal
perspective that a justification to the
end-user like I don't know I didn't see
it I feel like there are only defenses
that they've been doing it for longer
than the regulations have been able okay
so yeah when you said that I'm going all
right fair enough
so prior to the regulations if they were
allowed to do it that's one thing but
when the regulations change you can't
say oh well
I rule is change and so I was doing it
before the rules so therefore you can't
make me do it follow the rules now like
that's stupid that's an ignorant
response right there I feel like at this
point there wasn't a stop sign there and
last week watch it why should I have to
stop yeah exactly
gone so far in trying to mine
information from people's various
devices and software's and all kind of
that it's it's almost become like an
obsession for the companies going we
need more ways to get information
because we're gonna get mo on absolutely
and so but this is what they're there
that's their currency that's how they
make money like that but play within the
rules who does who makes the rules
they're the one of the biggest companies
in the world I know this but makes the
rules this is the thing though I think
they've gone too far they've collected
too much and done it in shady ways that
they're forcing regulatory oversight
that's going to put regulations in place
that's going to cause problems for
everybody had they have just stayed
within their sandbox and said okay this
is what is socially acceptable and not
gonna get us caught they went oh look
over there and they went way too far and
everybody's gonna go I feel like a
seroma how big of a company would they
have got gotten to if they had been
playing by those rules like they're
there who they are now because of what
they've done okay but what happens with
all those regulations get put in place
they're used to playing in this area you
put a fence around like this they're
gonna go put and then what's what's left
I think the key thing is not to forget
as consumers right yeah don't forget
let's keep in mind these kinds of things
that we hear in the news and and
remember them so that when we circle
back six months from now and there's
something else happening I think part of
the problem as consumers is that we
forget of these kinds of violations to
our privacy and and this is not
affecting me now but this could very
well affect my daughter like my child
and and to think that that that is
potentially an issue that were that is
worrisome to me and I know we can't stay
on this topic because we've got more
news stories but one of the interesting
things that we found from a sociology
standpoint is that the current
millennial generation and you know
versions around that they don't care the
mindset is they've got all my
information anyway why should I be data
conscious about my privacy and so they
just don't care that's a generalization
Jeff and I don't like to do that it is
but I'm hearing it a lot more because as
these things are popping up I'm talking
to people that I know going be aware of
this and the response overwhelming to be
fair yeah they've already got the
information however to be fair to the
that generation there's a an entire
other side and this is not relevant to
the story but there to be fair to your
comment there's an entire other side of
young people who have grown up with the
technology and understand data privacy
and say I will not give my information
because I understand it yeah so there's
a whole computer split I don't know I
think what I've learned over you know
with my discussions with like Toni Ann's
come from ESET and and talking about
data privacy realizing that it's kind of
our generation that that is the biggest
problem because we grew up in a time
when Facebook was starting up and it was
so exciting to be able to share so much
information with so many pimples so
easily and so we grew up thinking that
this was okay yeah so it's our
generation now that is really the
biggest concern when it comes to data
privacy and our data is already out
there is that the younger generation
maybe not maybe you're wrong there
that's just one one subset what are your
thoughts comment below that's how I move
on see that's how I tell Jeff okay shut
up we're gonna move on IBM hopes 1
million faces will help fight bias and
facial recognition
IBM thinks that the data being used to
train facial recognition systems isn't
diverse enough the tech giant released a
trove of data containing 1 million
images of faces taken from a Flickr data
set with 1 million
photos and videos 100 million even a
hundred million 100 million photos
videos the images are and annotated with
tags related related to features
including cranial facial measurements
facial symmetry age and gender
researchers at the company hope that
those specific details will help
developers train their artificial
intelligence powered facial recognition
systems to digitally into identify faces
more fairly and accurately John Smith a
fellow and lead scientist at IBM said
facial recognition technology should be
fair and accurate in order for the
technology to advance it needs to be
built on diverse training data Smith's
stressed the importance of rot of
variety in data sets for facial
recognition systems to reflect
real-world diversity and reduce the rate
of error in matching a face to a person
experts have warned on the potential for
artificial intelligence to be biased
research has shown that facial
recognition technology is much more
adept at making out the faces of white
males than it is with minorities IBM
itself has been the target of criticism
over its facial recognition system a
paper by MIT researchers Oy bull what
bull last year found that IBM Watson's
visual recognition platform had at
almost 35 percent error rate when it
came to identifying darker skinned
females and a less than 1% error rate
for identifying lighter skinned males
studies such as this have heightened
concerns over the use of facial
recognition in areas like law
enforcement and the potential for AI
powered
racial profiling that's a scary thing
that I've never really given much
consideration to but if the data set is
confined to a certain right yeah yeah
well the the AI is going to be biased
and it's not lost on me how you know
we're learning about the fact that the
AI needs to be not generic
and you know able to you know not
generic at all and and the guy doing the
research is John Smith true story true
story it actually happened you saw it
here tonight it's you know I've never
fully in a shockingly I've never fully
trusted the technology behind facial
recognition because of all the
challenges that have come with it I mean
it's one thing to look at say
fingerprint analysis which has been
going on for so long now and there's I
mean other than fact there's different
identifiers it follows the same pattern
but when it comes to facial recognition
it's totally different I mean it all it
could take is you know a little bit of
change in facial hair or thrown on some
glasses to skew the entire thing I mean
how many times have we had stories where
it's like oh this computer's got the
facial recognition oh a picture cracked
it
sure well last week we learned about AI
and how it's going to be growing to the
point of being human like mmm and I
think until it reaches that point like I
can look at Sasha Knight that's Sasha
you see Sasha and you know that Sasha
you see Jeff you know that is Jeff right
you see me and you know that is bald
nerd right but will an AI AI is it at
that point now no no okay can I just
take it just to a weird spot for a
moment sure I just watched the
documentary on Ted Bundy okay she was
after he escaped from prison he was rien
and held in a prison and lied about his
name even though there were a ton of FBI
most wanted pictures and such he had
grown out his facial hair and human
beings couldn't recognize that he was
who he was it happens all the time I
actually trust that that event pardon
but but he's like humans couldn't humans
Clinton could AI well what I'm saying is
once we develop this AI I feel like the
AI would have done a better job at
figuring out hey this is that guy then
we could ourselves
right so I think that I mean I have a
lot of faith in AI as you know I think
that it could do better than us we just
have to Train it how to do so so these
pictures in this facial recognition and
these you know exposure to all different
types of faces right that is that's the
win because yeah you see me and you see
Sasha right but I could change how I
look I could change my hair right I as a
human would still recognize well but you
say that in this instance it wasn't it
wasn't recognizable right but that's
because you're not looking like you're
looking at the extras on the outside of
me where I think that AI will be looking
at like my bone structure as what
somewhere you know is you like thinking
of the AI piece and comparing that to
human intelligence I know Jeff well
enough that when he grows in his beard I
still know that who he is I would still
recognize him from across the street
right but would everybody no not
necessarily no I was out the gym saw
somebody that I've known for years and
they're like Jeff okay I was like took
them yes like wow dude beard totally
changed you yeah yeah right
and I got fat you're at the gym yeah gym
trying to also slug him yeah what about
things like identical twins like I I've
known a couple sets of identical twins
growing up and you know I can look at
them and I know the difference
absolutely like there's just my new
things yeah but I wonder would a eye and
facial recognition home no to my wife or
yes because I would say that identical
twins anybody has different
micro-expressions right and AI is going
to be smart enough to distinguish one
versus the other right I have identical
twin sisters and I can see the
difference in them Oh No you've met one
of them well we're not that when we're
not there yet but we as humans can
recognize the difference between
identical twins right we're not there
yet with AI but could this be so Watson
getting this infusion of a hundred
million faces from Flickr being able to
recognize other races other other
ethnicities if you you know like just
other sexes I mean why is it white males
as what was the data set that they were
given is that like the majority of the
base on I just I don't know but but my
like the whole point is is that maybe
with an increased data set it's just
about training the computer because the
computer needs to know yeah because it's
like it's it's like a puppy it's just
gotta learn it's just gotta learn and
then it'll get there and then we'll all
be better people because of it I hope so
I really really hope so
yeah all right let's take a quick look
at cryptocurrency this week according to
coin gecko here's what the crypto market
looked like as of 1800 hours Eastern
Time on Wednesday January 30th 2019
Bitcoin is at three thousand four
hundred sixty two dollars and thirty
four cents down seventy dollars and
seven cents us like coin actually gained
just a fraction @ 31.7 5 USD a hundred
and eight dollars and 32 cents for
aetherium Manero is at forty three
dollars and forty six cents just a
little bit down from last week stellite
and turtle coin the little guys mouths
taillights sitting around where it was
last week and turtle coin is down a
little bit at 1.15
ten thousandth of a cent remember the
crypto currency market never closes and
it's always volatile big thanks to Roy W
Nash soul boo and our community of
viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV news rooms don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight lenox bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website
the category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm Jeff
Weston
[Music]
[Applause]
