my wife Becca yes in college right now
and she's working through the courses
and working with groups and working in
software and they're very specific about
what software they use and guess what
they use in college
yeah Microsoft Word of course they do
Microsoft Excel and all that kind of
crazy stuff and it's that's what they
learn on and so we've on the show we've
converted libreoffice into a more
microsoft office similarly so it feels
more like Microsoft Office and if you
haven't seen that segment and you want
free software click the link below and
that will take you to a video that shows
you how to do that but lo and behold
Microsoft is in fact releasing their
Microsoft Office suite in the cloud for
free for users who have access to like
Skype for example like who doesn't have
a Skype account I have a Skype account
so for me it was really really easy to
be able to sign in to Microsoft Word
online for example and just kind of
backing up just a little bit I'll show
you what what we encounter here and I
will post the links below but here are
the free office apps online from
Microsoft so we've got Word Excel
PowerPoint and OneNote so I show you
this because we've had the discussion
well what if my files are not quite
compatible with LibreOffice or what if I
have trouble importing them into Google
Docs right which I don't think you will
like keep in mind if I go back to my
shared spreadsheet here and I go file
open I can in fact like I could actually
browse to and I can actually open XLS
files I can actually open docx files and
it will convert them to the cloud format
right so keep that in mind we don't
necessarily need to have the branded
Microsoft product anymore but if they're
gonna provide it for us for free and
you've got your Chromebook and my wife
has her Chromebook and she's sitting at
school and they're teaching in Microsoft
Office and they're showing you how to do
things in Microsoft Word
right and you're trying to translate
that my wife is trying to translate
those steps into libreoffice and
sometimes it's a little owner√≠s because
the commands are not quite named the
same they're not exactly in the same
spot I have a question yes okay so
remember a couple of months ago I had
problems opening and printing some of
the patient form it was like a docx file
that was created and word but then you
brought it up in libreoffice and shut
boxes were in the yeah they were like
they had like a little n with an accent
you know inside the bottom so could I
open that in the word online I'd love to
know I'd love for you to bring in that
file and give it a try and maybe report
back right okay could you do that I
could do that everybody hold her to that
yes those who are watching live make
sure you get into discord remind Sasha
two days before the next episode but she
needs to test that and find out I'm at
work cuz it'll be best if I do this at
work since the work question the finals
at 6:30 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. Monday and
Tuesday and a sad story yeah sad story
so just works enough underpaid right so
just yeah send me a message I don't
check my phone often but I do sometimes
check it excellent so let's jump back to
the Microsoft products okay I see you
folks are still working away still
working away don't put patient data on
Google anything thank you for that now
of course okay so here we are in
Microsoft's product links are below if
you're watching this on cable TV make
sure you head on over to our website
category-five TV this being episode
number 594 you will find that episode of
category 5 technology TV and when I say
the links are below the links are below
so right here let's bring up Microsoft
Word okay and you're on a Chromebook so
right remember like things are moving
into the browser you've got Google
Chrome on your Chromebook so he can
bring up Microsoft Word which you can't
traditionally install on Linux you can't
traditionally install definitely not on
a Chromebook right yet because of the
technology of the browser and the cloud
we now have access to it through
Microsoft Word online look at that so it
even starts up with templates so you
know like I don't know bring up bring up
a basic template and here we go we're
loading up word online and it's ready to
go and this is you like that it's a
pretty basic like this is a bullet list
folks we have a template for you boy do
we have a template for you if you need
to make a bullet list we have a template
for you I title here list title oh gosh
Sasha but here we are this is Microsoft
Word online and it's saving to docx
files if I save as I can actually
download a copy I can save it as a PDF
or I can even save it as an ODT so now
open document format I can save that and
open it up in LibreOffice and boom BAM
it's already ready to go good all right
like it am i right so links below cat5
dot TV slash MS Office is gonna get you
there as well and that's I mean that's
kind of how things are going
that's what excites me about the cloud
is that we no longer have to have
high-powered computers mm-hmm you know
like my wife's laptop as much as I'd
love for her to have the latest and
greatest most amazing laptop it's
getting a little aged right but it's got
Linux on it she's using the Chromebook
as well and to think that hey you can
bring up these applications through your
browser now you don't need to have a
very powerful system like you used to
because everything's on their server
which is perfect as long as you have the
internet connectivity you're loading it
from Microsoft's server right if it was
slow if it was like clunky and janky
they would they be out of business
because people would go nuts right it
has to operate really well so it's gonna
operate well on my i7 it's gonna operate
well on your 125 dollar Chromebook
yeah you know what I'm saying yes so
that's all there is to it so comment
below about the cloud what do you think
what are you excited about and you know
how could collaboration in your office
and maybe even with your your home usage
of these of these capabilities of the
cloud how is that going to impact your
day-to-day on your computer cool stop
thank you
[Music]
[Applause]
