welcome to category five technology TV
it's so great to have you here in 2019
as we kick off the year this this week
we're gonna be looking at how to rip
episodic DVDs so if you got some DVD
sets in your stocking this week this
this year then you're gonna be able to
copy those to your plex media server for
example we're gonna talk all about it
we're gonna show you how to do it and
and why I think we should also talk
about our favorite moments from 2018
we definitely should reminisce yes I
think that'll be coming up to stick
around our live recordings are trusted
only to solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category-five dot
TV category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat5 TV slash TPM and the international
association of internet broadcasters
cat5 TV slash i a happy new year to all
nice to see you thanks for joining us
this week again this feels like the
first time we've been live in awhile
because we had last week technically off
which was a unique experience we don't
normally do that so not often hope
everybody enjoyed the the Christmas
musical fun I meant to watch it and I
forgot isn't it funny how well I mean it
was it was Boxing Day right when it went
to air and I was I had about 30 people
in my house I had created a turkey
dinner and I was serving it up and we
were just about to sit down for dessert
when when the show went up yeah so I
could stop it with the chat room and
just say hi and I did see you pop in and
say oh it's shoulder
I didn't watch I hope that you had a
wonderful Christmas and a wonderful new
year and and you know here's to the the
greatest year ever 2019 it's gonna be a
good one
looking back on 2018 do we have any
favorite moments moments here at
category five TV that you guys can think
of and I'd encourage you to think of the
same and comment below your favorite
moments of 2018 here on category five TV
which one of you is this first I will go
first I would say right off the hop I
would say Marsh man's guest appearance
and my liveing eight hours to join us
here in our Canadian studio meeting the
marvelous mrs. Marsh man mm-hmm
definitely top of my list as well yeah
but that's my number one that wasn't
here you weren't here you were you were
off gallivanting in the woods yes I was
what was freezing my butt off what
favorite moments of 2018 do you have
here at the studio I think I have two
that are tied for first okay the first
one that popped my mind was the block
chain interview we did with Robert
Koenig mm-hmm I loved that interview
that totally changed my knowledge of the
block chain took me to the next level of
amateur nests and and I was like hey I'm
not just a newbie anymore I'm you know
amateur and I've taken some of that
knowledge from the interview and I've
had conversations with people even at
Christmas yeah we got talking about the
blockchain with my family and you know
talking about other uses for the
blockchain not just cryptocurrency
because like ours crypto currencies like
Bitcoin stomach no there's other stuff
mm-hmm
and when I started explaining to them
and you know the idea of like produce
and not having all these recalls and you
know then like when I raise the question
to him about why not use it for
passports they're going oh that's cool
mm-hmm oh we could talk yes I like it
and I was like I told my family on
blockchain
we are thick with knowledge we had a lot
of great interviews a lot of great
presentations here on category-five over
the past year that's definitely a
highlight for me as well and having
back a couple of times and we're gonna
see him again in in 2019 as a crypto
correspondent as well I have to say one
of my key points of 2018 not to do so
much with the show but just thinking of
how the community viewers and even our
local community have come together to
support us and I think about how an
anonymous viewer sent us a ninja flame
video recorder to supplement our entire
broadcast process and now the video
quality is better because of that and
we're able to do so much more and how
our local music Pro the music store in
town has gratis loaned us wireless
microphones so now we're moving around
the studio and changed the show it has
absolutely changed and and now we're I'm
thinking about how okay we can set up a
set over there and we can just walk over
and just turn the camera and we can do
this and that it's so much more freedom
for us and and so just having community
come together both our community on the
show and the community here locally
supporting category-five has been
something that a you know that's a big
highlight for me can I add to that and
it's the same line but switching to
discord for me yes huge for for
community like I feel and I mean I feel
surrounded by friends all of the time
now for example when I was doing the OS
on my computer yes right and I was
sitting there thinking for an iota of a
second I could do this alone and then
Garbi popped in and and between the two
of us
mostly Garvey I managed to install a new
OS on my computer which I don't have on
me right now but that wouldn't have
happened without discord and when you
use the Bookface either because you hate
rain it's taught us up to be like what I
do people like hashtag like right yeah
and for those of you who are well what's
this discord that she's talking about if
you look over there
just past a Jeff you see what looks like
a chatroom and that's our discord server
so you can join that through our website
and there's there there are links on the
interact menu but what I love about that
is you say switching to discord
more like we've supplemented our
community with discourse IRC is still
active I see the foo there and the foo
it's nice to see you the foo is in fact
communicating on discord via our old IRC
chatroom so they're actually in IRC the
old way of doing things so we haven't
replaced that we've supplemented it made
a bridge and I wrote some code to be
able to communicate between those two
servers and it's now one great community
and its really helped to grow our
community and the ability to communicate
throughout the week and it really is
improved really notices because before
with the chatroom you know it would be
active during the show there'd be a few
people throughout the week but now
discord zop of people are on all the
time
yes it's yeah oh great gwg has taken
offense to the fact that I call IRC the
old way but to be fair was I used ire
see when I was about this big I had a
full head of hair
IRC was before social media I had mIRC
and that was the application that I used
I mean it is old-school you got to admit
and now you know we just we've been able
to bridge that and make it make the
community even better
Jeff any other fond memories of 2018
with cat5 yes specifically STEM show
with my daughter oh yes I loved doing
that that was was that in 2018 that was
the 21 that was episode 548 it was like
spring ish March April I believe no that
would have been 2017 no I looked that up
earlier really yeah I went through the
show so oh you're right you're right
absent you I've got that recorded I was
right no I had it mixed up with because
I was trying to remember when we had the
kids on the show and I was thinking yeah
our March Break special that we did in
21 17 yes because she was on that as
well yes so that was her boombox now
this was right when she had the the
gendell the Jen doll from smart girls
yes and the fact that she was coding on
it she still plays with it awesome I
love it and it was so much fun watching
her just pick it up
use it on the tablet and start coding
and she with such a great job
that's a nominal job and now since that
time she's done commercials on Facebook
nice got that girl way to go kiddo
yeah ha ha another fond memory for me
Jeff this was with you and I on the air
we did a review of the Edifier hard
12:10 tea speakers yes your hair moved
my hair your hair yeah the base from
these speakers made his hair below blown
Trump amazing that was that was a
highlight for me that was good also
musically yeah the rap was she's ooh hey
yes did that microphone was fun amazing
and got a great response on YouTube
surprisingly YouTube's usually really
hard on us but no it was all thumbs ups
because you let two girls talk oh there
you go that's what I was I have to say
though I think I have the most fun
though with your questions yes those are
always like solid shows for me yes don't
always be a highlight I love the fewer
questions I enjoyed learning to solder
and the way again going back to our
community how the community made fun of
me but in a constructive criticism kind
of way right to help me to learn more
and more to do a better job at soldering
so now I understand more about how it
works right I know what the rosin does
and I know how I'm much much better at
it I'm still not a great solder er but
I'm learning and the community really
helped me with that mm-hmm any other
highlights for you well when we did the
retro pie yes I was on my list out oh
yes I wasn't here but I loved watching
it and then well and then that followed
up with doing the Odroid go with Marsh
man the handheld yes which again like
that that line of idea for retro gaming
for me like that episode and then this
next episode which is gonna catapult me
because I got one for Dave for Chris
contestant
and so I haven't assembled it or brought
it to you it's like the next step for me
which is great ad yeah that's awesome
and those are both examples of stem and
projects that we did ourselves right
that you participated in that we
actually built retro gaming stuff
exactly from a handheld to an actual
retro pie which is like you think about
classic Nintendo games and classic Sega
Genesis games and all those kinds of
things on a Raspberry Pi and we built
that mm-hmm
again it's funny you've gone from like
uber beefed up VR to handheld retro feel
the whole spectrum
I did get my VR in 2018 nice so that
didn't happen on the show we need to get
it on the show we need to get it on the
show yeah I got my computer I built the
computer in 2017 didn't did a new story
about the VR and like and then got my
tax return and yes no no I can't five oh
yes that's right yes
what is the name another thing that I've
really enjoyed and thinking of the the
retropie and just all of the single
board computers that we've had on the
show
lots of unboxings lots of reviews we've
done the giggle scores love the double
scribe and we're learning how each of
these single board computers performs
against one another which to me is
exciting because up until a year and a
half ago realistically there was just
Raspberry Pi
yeah there were other boards out there
but really in the market there was just
the Raspberry Pi and now there are so
many much more powerful single board
computers to the point where we're we're
probably a couple of iterations away
from being able to use one as a desktop
computer and and that has been a real
highlight for me yep any final thoughts
on 2018 I know of one that
well it may have been end of 2017 but
but I do it comes to mind because we're
talking about we are and everything but
and I think it still counts because it's
in my mind it's within the past year and
a bit okay but we did tour the Starship
Enterprise that is - that was 2017 2017
up mm-hmm so a little off on my timing
but in my heart it comes back to me
every day and I think it's fresh to me
because stage nine was shut down by CBS
and so you know I it's still a part of
my 2018 being able to live that boyhood
fantasy of standing on the Starship
Enterprise and traveling around walking
around on the starship we have time for
one more one more okay so remember we
did the review of those tablets and then
Jeff brought in there was word sync and
I bought a boogie board sync and then I
dropped it on the floor and then get
affixed well and I kept saying that I
would call them all today on my lunch
break
I called them yes talked to a guy named
Chris exact situation hi Chris yeah he
was like yeah it sounds sincere and that
is a problem with our case it actually
is an open corner just when you have
your sink with you because I was calling
from work and I didn't have it with me
mmm it doesn't work right now um he's
like just uh read off the I guess
product ID to me and I'll send you
anyone he's just like straight up
sending me anyone's yes I know yes I
know did you even have to play the I'm
Sasha Rickman card no mention you on the
show tonight fantastic man
see that's the kind of tech support that
love it that we need in this world and
companies that stand by their products
like that even when admittedly it was
your my fault I said I'm like I tried to
protect this thing against me I bought a
case it didn't work and he said if we're
working on that so it's a known flaw in
their protective case that's truly if
you buy the additional component of the
protection that is supposed to save it
from draw right it doesn't actually save
it from drops it's not Sasha it's not
Sasha proof I really should be just a
walking commercial
it makes sense to me though I mean
there's two sides to that but if I
bought a waterproof case right and then
I submerged my thing and it leaked and
it got destroyed then I would expect
that right proper tech support would say
yeah we'll send you another one that's a
flaw so that's good thank you Chris
awesome awesome okay so tonight we've
got a fantastic show planned for you
we're going to be yeah we're gonna be
learning how to rip episode ik DVDs
which I'm really excited about this is
something that we've really needed to do
because questions keep coming up on
YouTube recently I feel like we've done
this no really yeah huh we've we've
learned about ripping DVDs and some of
what we're gonna learn tonight is redone
got to do that but a lot of questions
stem from that video and those are what
we're gonna set out to answer tonight
and and admittedly several years have
gone by since Kelsey and I did that
recently I removed elementary OS from my
work computer so my production computer
where I do all my programming I ripped
it out of there and I took the step and
I installed Linux Mint latest and
greatest version you know that I was
impressed with Linux Mint here on the
show really you know I'm a debian guy
but I I do like the ease of the Ubuntu
architecture and the the infrastructure
that they've created and so Linux Mint
was really a nice step away from
Ubuntu's interface while still giving me
the feel of like the matei I'm using
cinnamon but that that kind of I don't
want to say retro but I like that
paradigm of like a start menu if you
will yeah Linux it's the applications
menu or you know it just feels more the
way that I'm used to using a computer so
I've been using that for several weeks
now and I found that Linux Mint is
really it performs great it works better
than Elementary did on my system I have
a brutally awesome system 96 gigs of ram
24 cores 2 Xeon processors so
most of that run yeah well this is my
production system at work so running
Linux on it is just a no-brainer but
then I've got three screens in front of
me and elementary oh and they finally
fix this after I'd been running it for
so long but you can't drag things from
one monitor to the other without this
massive gap in between the screens so
there is this like ridiculous gap
between the screens and you couldn't fix
it and the reasoning was because some of
my to two of my monitors are horizontal
the one in the middle is turned vertical
okay so because of that vertical it was
completely messed up
needless to say Linux Mint out of the
box worked flawlessly installing the
Nvidia drivers flawless and and just
operating it over the past three four
weeks has been brilliant so if so I say
that you know in my production
environment with everything that I do at
work it's all done now on Linux Mint and
if you're looking for a Linux distro I
think that it's one that is definitely
you know up there and that's one that I
think that I'm pleased with that with
that transition for sure that is cool
mhmmm we've tried so many different
Linux distros not to say any are you
know that yeah it really is with Linux
it's it's a they're flavors you try the
one you know that works for you and that
one right now is working for me you like
the mint oh I do I never used to I never
used to I do now they've come a long way
just quickly before we take a short
break I just want to say thank you to
all of our patrons who have been
supporting category 5 TV you can check
out more at patreon.com slash category 5
it's a great way to support category 5
TV this is free family-friendly episodes
of tech TV every single week and we do
more than just tech you recognize Jeff
from new every day it's a faith
broadcast that we brought that we share
with you every single week we have we're
getting back into the pixel shadow and
doing some video gaming there's there's
so much great content there but
definitely the episode ik week to week
of category 5 technology TV is if that's
flagship show and it's always you know
we we try to make this as accessible and
family-friendly and free and it's thanks
to our patrons and those who support
category five that we're able to do that
so we thank you for that
again patreon.com slash category five
and with you know wrapping up the
Christmas season the shopping season
thank you to everyone who used our
partner links as well to do your
shopping throughout the year you know
it's not just a Christmas thing but
throughout the year if you're gonna be
shopping online go to our website
category five dot TV click on support us
and you'll see our partner links and
there you're able to shop through our
partners Amazon eBay all the different
stores you can think of think geek gear
best yeah there's a ton on there and and
other partners that we love and and and
support as well and they give us a
commission on the sales so all you have
to do is just go through our website and
that's a great way to support us as well
so that we can really be strong in 2019
I want to see category five grow and we
are growing to the point where we had
trouble with one of our servers today
because our MySQL server was completely
capped out there were so many requests
on the server so you know these are
things that we deal with here want to be
able to have the resources in place to
be able to grow at the same rate as our
viewing audience which can be tough when
you give it away for free so for those
of you who support us thank you for
those of you who have considered
supporting us and you haven't yet please
follow those links and those are some
great ways to support us or just message
our community and they'll share some
other ways to to become a part of it as
well we do have to take a quick quick
break when we come back as I mentioned
we're going to be looking at episodic
DVD rips so stick around
[Music]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequents
by using the links on our website visit
category-five TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching just before
the break we had this cord up there and
we were even talking about discord I
know but it was frozen didn't realize
hopefully it's gonna work out a little
better I mean it's it's just the
positioning of the moon on this the
first week of its a January of 2019 it
is very close yeah exactly exactly so I
think we've got everything going
somebody say something just to be sure
drivers laughing this week we are going
to be kind of reproaching an old topic
now on our YouTube channel there's a hot
video about ripping copy-protected DVDs
mm-hmm and this week we are going to be
re addressing that because there are a
few questions that frequently come in on
that YouTube video hmm things around
essentially episode ik DVD rips okay now
when you rip a DVD if it's a movie it's
pretty easy it's pretty straight forward
because it's one video and you're
ripping it and then coding it and and
decoding it and and everything else but
it's one video now when you get a DVD
set of your favorite shows it is a
little more challenging because
typically each disc has multiple
episodes on it right so there is an
added challenge to that so tonight we're
going to look at software that we have
looked at before but we're gonna take a
little bit of a different approach
because we are going to be using an
episodic DVD set in order to do our reps
okay then alright the process just so
you know if you are interested only in
ripping movies and not Episode ik DVDs
the process is the same if you master
this you will absolutely master the
ability to rip movies as well cuz as I
say it's just one video on the disc
typically what the same process for an
episode of TV show worked the same as
say like DVD that's got special content
yeah interviews and stuff absolutely
those are other videos on the discs yeah
so quickly because I know one of the one
of the comments on YouTube is I talk too
much
and so I want to just quickly mention
that one of the reasons I would want to
do this and one of the reasons I want to
do this has nothing to do with the
technology but it has to do with the
fact that I watch a lot of British shows
so they come to me when I order them off
of Amazon UK they come to me region
coded to the UK so they don't play in a
local Canadian DVD player right so I
have to rip it in order to be able to
watch it on my TV because its region
coated C and for me I like this because
I have a ton of DVDs but we're looking
at getting a new sound system right that
they don't have DVD players yeah all of
our TVs are connected to Plex so I want
to be able to watch exactly you you may
have a blu-ray player which plays DVDs
as well but a lot of us have multimedia
centers and that's the other comment
that comes in on our youtube channel is
well why would I want to rip things to a
computer so that I can watch them on my
laptop no this can these files can be
watched on Smart TVs on set-top boxes on
I have a computer in my cellar that has
an HDMI cable coming out of it to the
back of a 55 inch TV and that's our
system so that's how we watch our TV
from plex so I put them on my plex media
server and then we watch the shows up on
our big-screen TV so this is not just so
you can watch it in a portable means of
taking it with you on a laptop though
that is one good use case too if your
kids are going away to school and they
have a bunch of DVDs they might not be
able to take them all with them but you
can rip them to their hard drive and
then all of a sudden they've
their entire library and are able to
take that to school with them just as an
example for the record we're not
breaking any laws here tonight we own
the DVDs that we are ripping this is
about making your content that you
already own more accessible on your
devices perfect I don't own a DVD player
I think I own a DVD player but I think
it's somewhere in the garage it's not
connected to any of my devices
especially with the advent of
flat-screen TVs I no longer have a
cabinet with DVD players and VCRs and
things and I don't want to have it
sitting on the floor below the TV that's
mounted on the wall so it's just a
different world but I own the content
and in fact this is a show that I bought
for my wife but technically for my wife
and I to enjoy together inspector Lewis
it's a great murder mystery show if you
haven't seen it from PBS and and it is
what nine seasons on Oh 18 discs 18 DVDs
that's crazy right so this is something
that I want to be on my plex media
server because I don't I don't have a
DVD player to put the DVDs in so why are
we ripping DVDs and not blu-rays sighs
because notice I can compress them not
everything plays a blu-ray but if I rip
it to a file then it would fine right
right it's it's a valid question and
this is another one that you've been
sending in the best answer I can give
you for that is let's just think about
the technology for just one moment now
blu-ray you would say is it's better
quality absolutely you can get 1080p
blu-ray 4k blu-ray these are only 480p
and granted they still look great but
DVD is much less quality than blu-ray
that's why blu-ray is the you know the
current optical standard anyways think
about your computer okay do you have a
DVD drive on my computer right yeah you
do yep do you have a blu-ray drive no no
mmm-hmm when you buy a computer even
when you build a computer your computer
has DVD capabilities right we may not
necessarily use it to its full capacity
a lot of us use it you know sometimes to
burn discs and things like that but most
computers I don't want to be so general
but majority of computers will not have
blu-ray drives so you cannot rip blu-ray
on a DVD Drive you can rip DVD and every
computer since years ago has DVD if it
has an optical drive right right there
was CD then DVD in every computer has it
blu-ray was never adopted as a computer
standard you can spend extra money you
can buy extra devices to can to give
yourself blu-ray but I imagine that if
you've done that you already know what
you're doing and you've already know how
to rip because why would you spend the
extra hundreds of dollars on an upgrade
for your computer that when you don't
even know what it does it's not so the
drive that is built into your computer
and in my laptop today is DVD that's all
it will read and then CD its downward
compatible but it will not do blu-ray so
that's the answer to that and and the
other point about that is that we're
doing this for free yes because I'm huge
I already have the hardware DVD drive in
my laptop I already have the well I'm
gonna have the software in about five
minutes I'm going to show you how to get
it it's absolutely free if I wanted to
rip blu-ray I have to invest in new
hardware I have to buy commercial
software I have to go through all those
hoops so we're not going there it's all
about the DVD all right so the product
that we're gonna be using is called
handbrake and I do have the capability
of bringing this up on my screen so I'm
just gonna do that for you let's go hand
brake dot F R now this software is
available for Windows Mac and Linux and
it's absolutely free I'm gonna do the
demonstration on Windows 10 tonight so
I've just clicked on the download button
and it asked me do I want to keep it and
yes I want to keep that file so
now it's downloading this 12 megabyte
file it's gonna be here in 10 seconds
here we go megabytes so he's super tiny
so this is a program that's going to
allow us to copy these DVDs to a file
right so understand we're not making a
copy from a DVD to another DVD no right
we're we're taking the data off of the
DVD we're going to remove the copy
protection and we're going to then
encode it to a file format mp4 which is
going to allow us to watch it on our
set-top box on our plex media server all
of those things ok so you said remove
the copy protection yes now do we
eventually put copy protection back on
okay so should most systems that have
DRM protection deep DRM DCA yeah DRM DRM
would they still recognize it without
the copy protection ok so understand
Jeff we're not going to change the DVD
correct okay yeah DVDs are a read-only
medium right DVD RW that's different
that means rewrite right but when you
buy a commercial DVD video set it is
write read-only right
they've silk-screened it and pressed it
so we're not making any changes that are
going to affect that disc it's going to
still work exactly the same it's going
to have the same copy protection what
we're doing is when we copy it to the
hard drive of my computer we're going to
remove the the protection which will
obfuscate the video ok because if I just
simply if I just put a DVD in my drive
and copied all the files to my computer
and tried to play the VOB files they'd
be green lines yes and it would be all
messed up because there's copy
protection that prevents me from making
that copy right and rightly so
I go back to the fact that I own these
discs I'm not showing you how to bootleg
or how to make illegal copies go do that
what we're doing here is is just making
this for ourselves so with that file now
download it I hope that answers your
question does ok so there's a handbrake
now ready to install so I'm gonna click
on that
and we're going to install that next I
agree and
next perfect now you think you're done
but you're not I mentioned about
copy-protection yes okay right hand
brake is free software and they need to
be careful that they are not
distributing software that can be used
for illegal purposes okay right so right
now in its current state I can rip my
family movies I can rip my wedding DVD
that was created for me but I cannot rip
commercial DVDs with copy protection I
have to go one step further in order to
rip and decode the copy protection
remove that and that's using a tool from
VLC which we all know and love yeah VLC
the video player it's able to play
everything and we can use some of their
technology in order to bypass and get
around the copy protection meats so it's
a little hard to find when I go to VLC .
is it org nope VLC let's just know now
it's in my memory VLC . no video lan org
that's how they always get me ok video
land or in projects you see lib DVD CSS
and gives you all these now live DVD CSS
is specifically a library designed for
accessing dvds like a block device
without having to bother about the
decryption it's a fancy way to say this
gets around
the encoding that protects the DVD you
can go into releases and you go into
1.2.12 and then you see win 64 see all
the hoops that you got to go through
know why that version did they
discontinued it after they stopped
making it for they stopped compiling it
for windows ok so that particular
version 1.2.12 anyway so you're on
windows let's make it simple I've
created a hot link for you all you have
to do is go cat 5 dot TV /lib DVD CSS
forget about the DLL because it's just a
hot link when I click on that enter it's
going to redirect to the file and it's
going to allow me to download it
keep what's it again lit cat5 dot TV
/lib Scott DVD Z s s Lib DVD CSS and you
see that below as well so now I've
downloaded that file just save it to
your downloads folder I cannot reiterate
enough you do not save this to its final
destination your Windows system won't
allow you to do that and it will end up
saving it in the wrong spot and then
your decoding will not work okay okay I
need to now take that dll file which has
been downloaded to my downloads folder
and I actually downloaded it twice so
it's got a one after it I want the the
original DLL file so I just want to copy
that file Lib DVD CSS - to DLL is what
it's calling it right now and I'm going
to go now again I'm on Windows this will
work on Mac and Linux it's just that the
file locations are different find where
handbrake installed - and you'll be able
to do this on Windows it's usually going
to be in your C Drive in Program Files
and then a folder now called handbrake
because remember I installed a program
called handbrake so here it is but it's
missing the DLL to decode that so I'm
going to right click and hit paste and
here's the warning you're gonna need
administrator permission to do this
continue so now in that folder along
with my handbrake dot exe is also live
DVD CSS - - DLL that is a necessary step
if you're getting garbled video on your
rips you've you've done that incorrectly
okay
download it to your downloads folder
then copy it or cut it and paste it into
the same folder as handbrake Exe do not
open the program before that point okay
notice the the steps that we've taken
now I can close this and I'm gonna bring
up handbrake on my screen and I've
already inserted the first disc of the
set okay
do that first put your disc in if you
bring up handbrake first and then put
the disc in you're probably not going to
see your your desk okay I put it in
first okay now I'm gonna bring up
handbrake
here it comes and you see now it has
detected the DVD so hit OK or just click
on that DVD and now it's scanning the
titles of this disc now on the box set
here there's a couple of things so on
the back of the disc on the case right
disc one okay and then there's the pilot
and series pilot and whom the gods would
destroy 2 episode 2 episode 1 disc 2
episodes so on that disc now I can see
if I look under title
I see three files well what what on
earth right observe one hour 37 minutes
and four seconds one hour 38 minutes and
38 seconds one minute 39 seconds that's
the episode yeah so the first two files
are the first two titles that it sees on
the DVD those are the episodes and then
this is probably the menu it's like a
one-minute loop so I'm going to first
click on the first one and up here see
this here this is extremely important I
need to observe how they created this
DVD the encoding that they used so this
is 720 by 480 but it is actually
anamorphic so it's 853 by 480 is the
actual resolution of the disc and this
is key the framerate 23.9 8 frames per
second keep that in the back of your
mind
so I want to you notice that it
defaulted too fast
1080p 30 yep don't want that okay
because a DVD is only 480p
why would I rip it in 1080p which will
upscale it will create a 1080p file but
the source is only 480p so I'm basically
just stretching it out it would just
make a bigger file yeah uselessly yeah
so what I want to do is I want to as
closely as possible match my encoders to
the DVD itself that's why the framerate
is very very important so the first
thing I'm going to do with the DVD is
I'm going to change my preset to general
fast 480p 30 because that's the closest
thing to match a DVD 480p
30 seconds 30 frames per second so next
thing I want to do is turn on web
optimized what that will do Jeff is that
will help so that your plex media server
if you pause it it can resume easier ok
skim you can skim easier because it's in
your web browser when you're using plex
so that helps web optimized is important
dimensions I just want to bring you back
to this we don't need to change anything
it's already detected 720 by 480
anamorphic is set to automatic and you
see that the display size is coming out
to 853 by 480 which matches 853 by 480
the actual disk that I've inserted okay
next up I just want to show you filters
we have deinterlacing this is all just
left default but what that does because
our computers are devices or
progressive-scan
so each frame is a full frame interlaced
the DVD is actually interlaced so it's
only half of the frame per frame so so
deinterlacing is going to fix the lines
that you see in some videos if you
didn't have the interlace and you'd have
lines through everything especially
during action shots so just leave those
leave those filters as they are because
they're the defaults are perfect we do
not need to I don't even know how to say
it details
assign because this is if we were
upscaling to 30 frames per second but we
want to actually match the 23.9 a so
just forget about filters I just wanted
to show you that ok leave everything the
same as it is except we want to set a
constant frame rate because we know that
it is twenty three point nine eight
frames per second the default is thirty
frames per second I actually want to
match the DVD so keep in mind I am not
telling you to set this to twenty three
point nine eight frames per second or it
which is really 23.976 that's the
correct option for this particular disc
but every time you insert a disc you
need to observe those top stats so that
you know what that disc is the next disc
that I put on in even if it's from the
same set might be thirty frames per
second
for sure yeah yeah and it does happen
and in fact with this particular DVD set
once you get to the second second set of
disks it goes up to 30 frames per second
that could be because they were shooting
in 24 frames per second and then they
switched to 30 P for NTSC something like
that
I've just observed that so I'm not
saying to do this at 23.976 generically
I'm saying observe what the disk is and
match that so I'm creating a copy of
this that is so close to the original
that you're probably not going to notice
the difference so everything else
so remember constant framerate 23.976
matches 23 point 9 8 which is a rounded
number you may have 30 frames per second
or 29.97 on different disks but this
disk is that
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts now if you I mean
chances are you're not gonna find that
your disc is different but then those
numbers but if you do find this
different are you better to downscale to
the clothes closest lower or closest
higher DVDs generally are going to be 24
frames a second right 30 frames a second
29.97 frames a second you know you're
not gonna have four frame a second DVDs
or that's a 6,000 yeah there there are
standards right and so these these
represent the standards and then some
like that here 60 frames a second 120
frames a second 59.94 yeah and it will
show you here what the frames per second
is that's what we want to match up audio
I'm just gonna leave it as is oh and
back here constant quality I'm gonna
leave at 20 if you increase that it's
gonna the numbers gonna go down and
you're just gonna get a bigger file size
but I think 20 is a pretty happy place
you're gonna get really good quality
without going over the top as far as
file size goes audio I'm just going to
leave as is but if there are other audio
tracks you can select them if you want
to choose a different language for
example I'm just using the English and
that's all that there is on this DVD if
it has Italian and you would prefer the
Italian track you can actually change
that and that's what will be ripped you
can include both if there are multiple
tracks you can also include those and
then you can change it using VLC or your
player that's a cool option yeah
absolutely everything else is just gonna
stay as is those are the key things so
now save as I'm just gonna browse
somewhere on my computer go on to my
desktop the naming is important
especially if you're using plex media
server or some other kind of media
server you've got to start with season
number and the episode number so s01e01
is the beginning of this file because
otherwise it's not going to show up on
your plex media server so I'm gonna call
this s 0 0 1 0 1 and then I do a hyphen
and then I'm gonna call this series
pilot because that's actually what they
call it dot mp4 don't forget to specify
that save now I'm not actually doing
anything yet what I
I want to add that to my queue now if I
look at the queue we can see it's there
it's ready to go but I this is episode
ik remember so now if I was just doing a
diva movie I'm done right I could just
rip it and I'm done but because this is
episode ik and there are two episodes on
this desk next step is to now pull down
the title and change to the next one
episode two and I'm gonna leave
everything as is it's already using the
same settings that I already set but now
I don't need to browse I'm just going to
delete the last the automated file name
here and call it s01e02 and the episode
number of or the episode name of number
two for this show is called
whom the gods would destroy and so back
at hand break I'm just gonna put that in
there or I could type it dot mp4 now add
to my queue so the specifications would
never change episodes episode on the
same disk it would just be disk to disk
it might change the disk itself is a
certain frame rate is the certain yeah
resolution but and the next disk might
be a different frame rate right yeah I
haven't seen it mixed it could
technically I think it could be mixed
okay but I've never seen it I just feel
like perhaps you'd get lulled into it
say there was like seven episodes on a
disk yeah lulled into repeating and
repeating that you put in a new desk and
well everything's changed yes watch that
yeah and you see how quick it is to
change it anyways and modify those
settings now if I look at my cue I have
both of those episodes in my cue all I
need to do is hit start cue and pour
yourself a coffee go sit down it's on my
i7 laptop this is gonna take about an
hour per episode so so close to
real-time because I don't know I don't
know that it's really that specific it's
just that's how long it takes because
what it's doing is its decoding removing
the copy protection or copying the file
itself and then encoding to the mp4
format that matches the specifications
that I've given right so then I end up
with an mp4 file because this is going
to take two hours just before
the show I actually set it up and did
exactly this and so I already have these
two episodes ripped and that's why the
disc was already in my drive I'm just
gonna close out of this and if I bring
up my folder here where I ripped it you
can see now I've got these two files and
if I click on it on my computer there it
is it's a perfect rip it looks fantastic
it looks perfect and up on my up on my
big-screen TV it looks wonderful
cool and there you go so that is decoded
and it works and we're good to go I like
this I have a drawer full of DVDs in art
and their unit yeah that I could spend
days ripping and we would love to show
these things but we don't have a DVD
player anymore yeah so they're just kind
of sit there we keep talking about all
should we have just sold them off but
now it's like no there's a purpose you
can rip them and put them on your plex
media server yeah yeah and it's
absolutely like cuz the the video is
great the video looks even on my 55 inch
TV the 480p looks fabulous and because
I've set the settings as I have the
quality is stellar like there's no there
no artifacting there's no there's no
perceptible loss it looks great
it looks absolutely perfect so I think
that that covers everything that we need
to cover for this feature I hope that
you've enjoyed it and learned from it
and I hope that it helps you to be able
to move your DVD library into your
current setup because I just don't have
the setup to play these anymore but I
still buy them I still support the the
industries that make them and and and
I'm happy to do that and by doing that
I'm paying for it I bought these off of
Amazon right I'm not downloading illegal
copies of videos I'm not breaking the
law I'm not stealing from the content
creators and but I still have the same
effect of being able to put it on my
devices and being able to put it on my
plex media server or whatever other
device that I own that gives me access
to that content in a modern kind of way
very cool there's a question from Seoul
in the chatroom
what if one just wants to rip without
changing the encoding so DVD encoding is
mpeg-2 right now but keep in mind it has
copy protection yes so you will not be
able to play those files if you don't go
through the process so part of this is
decoding then re encoding to a format
that your devices will be able to play
right that's the key thing so I hope
that answers for you I hope that all of
your questions have been answered if you
have any more please comment below we
got to jump over to the newsroom all
right all right here are the stories
were covering this week in the category
5 TV newsroom several US newspapers
suffered major printing and delivery
disruptions on Saturday following a
cyber attack India will ban ecommerce
companies such as Amazon and Walmart
owned Flipkart from selling products in
from companies in which they have an
equity interest the first autonomous
freight train network is fully
operational and Elon Musk claims to be
on track for a 2026 Mars colony mission
and reveals who will be on board the
first trips these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top
Linux bias Jeff Westen Jemma you're
building a brand-new beautiful website
what
aren't you your terrible actor what this
where acting comes into play I don't
know you're supposed to act okay I'm
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host just
quickly before we get into it I heard
that breath just want to let you all
know that some of the news stories were
submitted this week by Roy W Nash we
hear that he has been doing well and and
it's so great to receive some emails
from him this week and we look forward
to updates there but just thought I'd
give you a quick update so Thank You Roy
and here's the speedy health and a
wonderful 2019 I'm Sasha Rickman and
here are the top stories were following
this week several US newspapers suffered
major printing and delivery disruptions
on Saturday following a cyber attack the
attack led to delayed distribution of
the Los Angeles Times Chicago Tribune
Baltimore Sun and other titles belonging
to Tribune publishing the company said
it first detected the malware on Friday
which hit papers sharing the same
printing plant the LA Times said the
attack is believed to have come from
outside the US an anonymous source with
knowledge of the attack told the LA
Times we believe the intention of the
attack was to disable infrastructure
more specifically servers as opposed to
looking to steal information westcoast
editions of The Wall Street Journal and
New York Times which share the same
production platform in Los Angeles were
also affected the virus heard back
office systems used to publish and
produce the newspapers another
publication the Fort Lauderdale Sun
Sentinel was also crippled this weekend
by a computer virus that shut down
production and hampered
according to a story on its website a
department of homeland security
officials said in a statement we are
aware of reports of a potential cyber
incident affecting several news outlets
and are working with our government and
industry partners to better understand
the situation investigators at the
Federal Bureau of Investigations were
not immediately available for comment
okay so that's scary because so begins
the year yeah you can get in to the news
I'm eager to hear more about how the
attack occurred mm-hmm but yeah I mean
that can what do you say to that
that we have such a digital connected I
think about newspapers and think about
how old-school the technology of a
newspaper is and yet they are reliant
now as much as we are on the technology
that's internet connected and everything
else so there's so many news stations
whether it be TV paper whatever they
have remote correspondence that in a lot
of cases probably right into a network
yeah and so if their network is
regularly getting data traffic coming in
from outside the network I mean you've
got a lot of holes that you need to have
protected and if they are connected
stations say through a network you know
you hit one you could potentially hit
them all I mean so often they share
content and it's like where is that
vulnerability mm-hmm but at the same
time I just kind of go well it's another
story
move it on I'm gonna have my coffee well
yeah a little bit but it kind of speaks
to the the infrastructure issues that
companies have to like these are and
these are big companies but these are
old companies yes so you know as the
infrastructure progressed along with the
technology has the security measures
that are in place progressed along with
that technology so we have to look at
you know as as you know maybe the
businesses that we work at grow and
evolve into today you know are the
technologies that are in place to
protect
that's against cyberattack are they up
to snuff I still feel like a lot of
times it's somebody who's just not
security conscious it could be one user
on the network that clicked on a file in
an email right who knows right I think
of those cities that we've heard of in
the past we've heard on the news where
suddenly all of their city computers get
the old pay the Bitcoin because we've
ransomware is your computer it's like
yeah alter goes one person you know who
just works
yeah it's true you know it's scary
because you really you don't know what
causes something like that and like you
said in a situation where people are
just constantly putting information and
how do you know when it's malicious I'm
just glad they didn't change the
teleprompter and go all Ron Burgundy ha
ha India will ban ecommerce companies
such as Amazon and Walmart owned
Flipkart from selling products from
which they the companies have an equity
interest in a statement the government
also said that the companies will be
prevented from entering into exclusive
agreements with sellers the new rules
will be applicable from February first
the new regulations follow complaints
from Indian retailers and traders who
say the giant ecommerce companies are
using their control over inventory from
their affiliates and through exclusive
sales agreements to create an unfair
marketplace that allows them to sell
some products at very low prices the
all-india online vendors association in
october filed a petition with the
antitrust body competition commission of
india alleging if that amazon favors
merchants that it partly owns the lobby
group filed a similar petition against
Flipkart in may alleging violations of
competition rules through preferential
treatment for select sellers the new
rules said that services provided to
vendors on an e-commerce platform and by
that entity's affiliates should be done
so at an arm's length and in fair and
non-discriminatory manner new rules will
appease small traders and farmers who
fear that US companies are making a
backdoor entry into India's retail
market and could squeeze out small
corner shops that dominate Indian route
retailing the Confederation of all India
traders in a statement said that if the
order is implemented in full then mal
practices predatory pricing policies and
deep discounting by e-commerce players
will no longer occur Amazon India said
that it is currently evaluating the new
rules while Flipkart did not immediately
respond to a request for comment on the
fence about this one you know what so
was I yeah when I saw it I was like I
I love the idea of preventing like the
big guy going to all the little yes but
at the same time I think this is gone
too far
in its response like here in Canada
we've got grocery stores you can go to
their website purchase your groceries
for pickup at the store right it's not
right you know
does that classifies ecommerce and if
you've got a grocery store that now
sells their own brand are they
restricted from doing that in India if
if the store was in India like how far
does this go because when I read the
definition of what they're talking about
it's very wide open to just about
anything yeah and I mean you look at a
company like coca-cola who's got a ton
of subsidiary companies underneath but
they're all under the same corporate
umbrella it might be four or five times
removed but under this rule they all
apply but what do what what's true about
that is they have policies in place that
you can't have a Pepsi machine next to
it I know right which is funny it's
tough because like I have to look at
this one in the perspective of okay this
is the Indian government protecting the
small marketplace yeah right but in in
the terminology it comes across as more
like such a controlling mm-hmm like I
think about if I walk into a grocery
store and that grocery store has their
brand like I'm thinking President's
Choice yeah so if I walk in and there's
the President's Choice ketchup and
there's the Heinz well they have the
loss leaders up at the front all the
press you know like who's to say that
they can't do
that they own the brands because that's
their industry Amazon has bought
companies and invested companies and
created companies in order to sell
products at a better price
by bison Amazon basic stuff quite often
yep
and yeah it it's just the way it is and
it's so tough Sears is out of business I
know and it's like they were crushed
but Sears didn't keep up with the
technology right and so in India I can
understand the marketplace is not able
to keep up with the technology
necessarily right there are probably
larger companies definitely are
yep that can but the little guys would
be done for if Sears can be put out of
business
sure absolutely it's this is such a
double-edged sword situation and I
you're right I think I'm on the fence I
don't know how I think it's gone too far
but I like the notion of it mm-hmm it's
really tough and I think it just boils
down to this is the time that we are in
yeah because there's a transition that
has been occurring for the past three
four years with Amazon becoming the
biggest retailer in the world it is
legit how I shop that's it right going
to a store it's like a foreign concept
to me now I don't I do I go to stores
but a lot of like Christmas shopping is
a perfect example this year and last
year as well where most of the stuff
other than stuff for stockings and
things like that
yeah bought online and most of that
through Amazon right I would say like
95% of the gifts I bought this year were
from Amazon yeah yeah mm-hmm what about
you what are your thoughts on this we're
kind of I think we're all three on the
fence on this one yeah yeah support it I
have absolute support for the little
guys and I understand that market
mentality and we need that maybe the
government needs to take a different
approach and subsidize the marketplace
subsidize the the little guy and give
them incentives to and and capabilities
to
flourish if they can't match the prices
give them tax breaks I also wonder if
part of this is country economics
because you look at a country like India
and it's such a massive country and not
all areas are equal in their wealth
distribution or their consumerism so
maybe there's an element of country
specific commerce scenarios that have
driven this and so we're looking at it
from our perspective stuff that way and
not understanding this scenario so maybe
it's just a matter of North American
ignorance to the true problem I do feel
that way and that's why I like I'm
awkward in this whole thing because I
don't really know what are you watching
our show from India and are impacted
here by this
share your thoughts if you have family
or loved ones in India what are your
thoughts on this particular governance
yeah we'd love to hear I'd love your
your perspective on this the first
autonomous freight train network is
fully operational on Friday major mining
corporation Rio Tinto announced that its
auto haul autonomous train system in
Western Australia had logged more than 1
million kilometers since July Rio Tinto
now calls its fully operational
autonomous train system the biggest
robot in the world the train system
serves fourteen mines that deliver to
four port terminals to mines that are
closest to a port terminal will retain
human engineers because they are very
short lines the train system took ten
years to build and cost Rio Tinto nine
hundred and sixteen million dollars u.s.
to implement the trains are remotely
monitored by a crew located 1500
kilometers away in Perth according to
the mining company the autonomous trains
make sure the rails are clear ahead and
monitor internal systems set as well
checking for faulty wheels or couplers
and bringing the train to a complete
stop if there's a problem
the autonomous train system will allow
Rio Tinto to cut down on the number
stops at the 2.4 kilometer long
iron ore hauling trains have to make to
change drivers prior to the operation of
the autonomous train system the mining
company shuttle train drivers 1.5
million kilometers per year due to shift
changes the average return distance of
these trains is about 800 kilometers
with the average journey cycle including
loading and dumping taking about 40
hours additionally the trains will be
able to run six percent faster by
removing acceleration and braking
variations caused by human drivers Rio
Tinto expects that its auto haul system
will allow it to increase the region's
iron ore production capacity by 20
million tons
that is super that's a neat story yeah
that's a big robot again this is going
to be two-sided because yeah this is
gonna mean loss of jobs right absolutely
but it's going to be and I feel like
you're driving a train 440 at like it's
a 40-hour trip you have to be shuttled
to and from because they have to do
shift changes I feel like those jobs
themselves aren't the ideal job it's
about having a job I mean like you take
that mindset you got road construction
why can't they just put a little rotator
on the bottom of a stop sign that flips
every you know minute and it's blue you
know connected to something on the other
side then the sign Turner's have lost
their jobs like it's right but I'm
thinking that this will allow for things
like being the controller like the
remote remote controller it's like the
remote and that's operator do you think
they the the operators 1500 kilometers
away right and presumably a great force
of IT to thwart any attack on this
system right because that would be my
next fear anything like that I think
you're gonna lose one job you're gonna
get another job but a sure Italian job
different skill set and the person who's
out of work may not be able to get this
new job for maybe program
the trains or something but the concept
of it is very neat it needs some of that
bulk so to speak out of the workload
right you know I mean at the end of the
I mean as a computer guy I mean your
automated software that you've created I
think you remember you're talking about
the AI for a while to help with some of
your workload your each one Jeff well
but I mean so some of that bulk of his
name's Jason he's a real person right
okay you can make that can help but it's
just like at what cost to the human
impact mm-hmm right so and I get both
sides but I think it's a neat story I
just like the fact that they've
automated trains I like it I do made it
faster because humans brake and
accelerate oddly that's interesting too
is that yeah what I want to know though
is are there sensors on it for track
runners well it's presumably I mean it's
monitoring things around it it's gonna
have lidar yeah
once per show and so it's gonna know
that there's things moving and you know
if there are kangaroos hopping in front
of the train they're gonna have to deal
with that right I just that's just that
they've addressed that sure because
there's nothing more just like sad than
to hear that there was of course or is
it latonans of course right Oh although
I will say if that were to be the case
there isn't a human witness witnessing
it now no nice attempt on putting a
lighter spin on it but you just made it
worse you on musk claims to be on track
for 2026 Mars colony mission and reveals
who will be on board for the first trips
messaging the billionaire on Twitter
musk fan asked how soon will the first
group group go to colonize Mars and musk
replied seven to ten years that's in
line with previous estimations from musk
who has said he hopes to launch missions
between 2024 and 2030 musk also recently
admitted that there was a 70%
chance he himself would move to Mars the
tesla boss also replied to another
twitter user who said i only hope the
first wave of explorers will be poets
and not real-estate developers must
respond so was that the initial Mars
colonization flights would be populated
with creatives engineers artists and
creators of all kind there is so much to
build he said it's not the first time
musk has suggested that he'll send
creative types to space back in 2018
musk revealed that Japanese billionaire
art collector yuusaku Misawa would be
the first passenger on board his SpaceX
trip to the moon the 43 year old
entrepreneur didn't reveal how much he'd
pay for the trip but musk said he has
made a significant deposit on the price
which is a significant price yuusaku
told a thrilled conference in California
I thought long and hard how valuable it
would be to become the first private
passenger to go to the moon I thought
about how this could contribute to world
peace this is my lifelong dream that
mission to the moon doesn't have a
launch date yet but is expected to take
place within the next few years reaching
the moon is a far easier feet than
Musk's planned Mars missions
the billionaire recently admitted early
travelers have a good chance of dying on
the way spacex is currently working on a
vessel named starship it's believed to
that starship will be able to make the
voyage to Mars with humans on board
within the next seven years spacex hopes
to eventually create spacefaring
civilization which would include Martian
colonies populated by humans tickets for
the trip would cost around a couple
hundred thousand dollars according to
musk musk however reckons that living on
Mars won't be cheery and certainly not a
luxury retreat your probability of dying
on Mars is much higher than on earth
the billionaire explained he also said
that early Mars colonists would be
working nonstop to build the base and
this would leave not much time for
leisure
and even after doing all this it's a
very harsh environment he said and even
if you survive the trip to Mars it's
entirely possible that you'll never be
able to return to Earth there's a good
chance you die there Musquin
said you can think come back you can
come back but we're not sure now that
does sound like an escape hatch for rich
people so I love this story on so many
levels of stupidity what I do appreciate
his honesty yes well it's true yes I
can't believe that it's actually going
to happen like I'm that soon you can't
believe like you don't believe or you
can't believe like oh my harshly I mean
do you look at his track record and you
know they he's a visionary
obviously but he has the capabilities he
projects you know where I like to
over-promised under promise and over
perform right geez hands to over promise
and under perform so when he you know
announces the new Tesla and then it
takes several years before it's you know
beyond the the day I just don't know
that it's going to happen but so there's
that doubt because of his track record
but at the same time I know that if
anyone can do it it is Iron Man I mean
Elon Musk space that's true he did what
I find interesting about this story
though is the fact that we don't know
the long-term impacts of space residency
sure I mean we've had people on the
International Space Station for extended
periods of time I mean look at the the
twins one wasn't one was an astronaut
one was not he the brother came back
from space and genetically he has
changed from his brother mm-hm
so we don't know what this is going to
mean if it's like we're going to send
you to Mars you get there in a year and
you may never come back what's five
years impact
I think before we start jumping at Mars
put something on the moon where things
go bad you're only three days away it
sounds like that's what he's doing
but at the same time he's being really a
downer to his own program by being
realistic and honest to say you know you
can pay to go to Mars I'll fly you there
probably gonna die well that's has
nothing to do with his product that's
the environment of space I mean that'd
be like hey we can get you a wetsuit
that allows you to swim with great white
sharks but there's a risk you could get
eaten that's not but this is progress
that is stupidity there is a fair chance
if you decide to go to Mars you know
you're not coming back sure you know it
like you know it you've lived your life
in your soul you know you're not coming
back to earth even if they say that
there's a chance there is no chance
there is you might get to Mars and live
on Mars for a blip but there is one
benefit to go into Mars what is that
you're not gonna have to shovel the snow
yeah you might just quickly according to
coin gecko here's how the crypto market
looked as of 1800 hours Eastern Time on
Wednesday January the 2nd 2019 Bitcoin
is up gaining 165 dollars and 62 cents
US and is presently at three thousand
eight hundred and fifty five dollars and
six cents litecoin similarly up and
going up by three dollars and eighty
three cents us hitting thirty two
dollars and seventy six cents aetherium
likewise up fifty three dollars and 34
cents at one hundred and fifty three
dollars and thirty cents remember three
weeks ago is that only $99.99 Manero
also gaining the slider game at fifty
one dollars and forty nine cents as this
week's where it hit stellite looking at
the little guys is also on its way up at
two dollar not two dollars pardon me I
keep doing that
two point three one ten thousandth of a
cent
I need if stellite was $2 turtle coin
and even littler gay 1.2 for 10
thousandths of a cent also gaining point
seven eight ten thousandth of a cent
remember that cryptocurrency is always
changing the market is always open and
it's always volatile so be careful and
be mindful of that fact
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm
Jeff Weston thank you so much for being
here again with us this week hope you've
enjoyed the show happy new year and
here's to 2019 being awesome for you
your family your loved ones and just
all-around looking forward to a great
year ahead have a great week everyone
[Applause]
you
