hello everyone and welcome to new every
day my name is Kari and my name is Jen
and I'm Statia we are in part three oh
wow
I didn't see that coming so stay tuned
[Music]
hello everyone thank you for tuning in
again to new every day we are in the
book of Acts and we've kind of traveled
through chapter 9 over the past couple
of weeks who looked at Saul and his
conversion experience and how he was
blinded and that's where we left off in
this story yes
and so Kerry's going to pick up chapter
9 verse 11 to 19 8 I'm concerned at 10
that yep okay oh yeah right first 10
here we go the role of Ananias now there
was a believer in Damascus named Ananias
the Lord spoke to him in a vision
calling Ananias yes Lord he replied the
Lord said go over to straight street to
the house of Judas when you get there
ask for a man from Tarsus named Saul he
is praying to me right now I have shown
him a vision of a man named Ananias
coming in and laying hands on him so he
can see again but Lord explained Ananias
I've heard many people talk about the
terrible things this man has done to the
believers in Jerusalem he and he is
authorized by the leading priests
priests to arrest everyone who called
upon your name but the Lord said go for
saul is my chosen instrument to take my
message to the Gentiles and to Kings as
well as to the people of Israel and I
will show him how much he must suffer
for my name's sake so Ananias went and
found Saul he laid his hands on him and
said brother Saul the Lord Jesus who
appeared to you on the road has sent me
so that you might regain your sight and
be filled with the Holy Spirit instantly
something like scales fell from Saul's
eyes and he regained his sight then he
got up and was baptized afterward he ate
some food and regained his strength I
didn't see that coming you didn't nope
you're a pastor and you never read this
before
[Laughter]
well one of the things and we've just
said that's why we titled the series wow
I didn't see that coming because first
of all the Christians were persecuted
when they thought well why wouldn't
everybody else want to hear this good
news right so wow we didn't see that
coming Jesus kind of warned them they
did but right
we don't always listen true right and so
then salt totally didn't see his
Damascus Road experience coming like
that was literally out of the blue he
was going to persecute Christians and
here Jesus shows up yes right and so now
we're into this and there's two things
that as I got it the second one you're
going to be like oh yeah I didn't see
that coming either
okay well give me the first one okay so
the first one oh wow I didn't see that
coming was for Ananias who event he was
a devout follower of Jesus yeah and
Jesus has appeared to him in a dream and
I fully believe that Jesus appears to
people in a dream yeah and give them
direction yeah he says go to go to the
house of Judas on straight street I
gotta give the address straight Street
Guyot I've really gotta love turning God
does know your address
yes it says in acts I believe 11:17 that
he determines the exact places where we
was going to live really yeah I don't
see that comin honest so anyways
go to the house of Judas on straight
Street and ask for a man from Tarsus
named Saul for his praying and Ananias
oh one has an I've ever had the gift of
healing before because he goes 1:6 in a
vision he has seen a man named and that
has come and placed his hands on him to
restore sight like was he this like
famous guy in Damascus I don't know a
well-known Christian or was he like a
normal uh nor me like me I know because
he doesn't he does not say oh I can't go
heal him yeah it doesn't say anything
about that he doesn't you know please
yes he obviously knows because he knows
where he lives
yes and so he's like I heard many
reports about this man like literally
he is saying to Jesus do you know who he
is like do you know what he's doing to
your people and you are asking me to do
what yeah like it's just so funny that
am Nyhus is having this conversation
with the Lord like like maybe you seeing
visions was a regular occurrence so
maybe that's why he had the boldness to
say that I don't know and I feel like if
if Jesus showed up to me I'd be like I'm
gonna do whatever you're going to tell
me right now she's much more spiritual
in Iowa I'd be like I told you I'm an
army I'm the Normie yes she okay luck
schooi ah it comes and goes and then it
goes on and the Lord said and I ask no
go this is the second Wow I'm not coming
home II this man is my chosen instrument
to carry my name before the Gentiles and
their kings before the people of Israel
what about that was you but he chose him
yes okay and why him and Ananias is
going to be like huh look so I guess I'm
thinking from Ananias this point of view
okay I feel a little bit like a nice and
just going this man persecuted
Christians well cuz it have you ever
encountered someone like I've got ever
asked you to go and talk to someone who
seemed rather scruff elite so on that
note we'll come right back
Stacy
Jeff Weston Yellin you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
what you're terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
oh I don't know where Isaac you're
supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roof of your own
calm dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine
sign up cat 5 GB flash green house still
out of a paper sorry just don't
do it but hey it's a great deal folks
SEO you're going to find five dollars
and change per month go to cap five dot
TV slash DreamHost
hey welcome back we are still Janna
Carey and we're still on new every day
and we're so listening to audible books
and I say this that I also use
amazon.com this week because what you
buy I bought through the gates of
splendor by Elizabeth Elliott in that
book yes it was her husband Jim Elliot
and Nate st. who were murdered by
Indians that they went to tell Jesus
Pope that's right in South America no
they didn't tell Jesus about them they
went to tell them about Jesus and also
from the Steven Curtis Chapman book
which I bought through audible yeah he's
been a big fan of not a fan but he's
been very aware of of the Elliots and
what they did and one of the the Indians
who
murdered the missionaries actually sang
on Steven post Chapman's CD
no we're greater love yeah I didn't see
that comment I know didn't see that
coming
and so anyways I have thoroughly enjoyed
using our partners page okay the
purchase thing that really helped me and
my walk with the Lord
well even before starting the show John
was like I consumed two more books since
our last recording like what I gotta get
on this train okay I know I liked I set
a goal every year depending on how old I
am
hedaan book Larry look huh Wow
if I'm not going for doing that do I get
to start at one or like what I have to
start it whatever are you doing all you
can decide but I made a radical jump a
few years ago because I was doing 30 for
the longest time okay and I just need to
jump good for you anyway it's bringing
it in here we are talking about Ananias
and going Wow I didn't see that coming
first of all he has a a vision from the
Lord
secondly the Lord says go talk to Saul
thirdly he says lay his hands on him lay
your hands on him and heal him and then
fourthly he says this is the man I'm
going to use to reach the Gentiles all
those things we never see coming like
this would make a really good movie at
this point and you just sort of go what
I be willing to go like that at the end
of the day after at the end of this
passage like try give God called you
yeah to go talk to someone like yes Saul
yeah and and before the break Carrie
asked a question you know as only has
God call you has God ever called you to
talk to someone who it looks rather
scruffy an appearance in not even
scruffy but like not like you or maybe a
little intimidating or scary or or had
more authority because Saul had a lot of
authority mm-hmm and there is and or
someone who was persecuting Christians
and then God calls you to go talk to him
and I can't honestly say God has ever
called me to talk to someone who is
persecuting Christians I yeah I don't
think that I have with anyone who is
like over
currently persecuting others mm-hmm I'd
have to think about that but if you have
a story that you'd like to share if you
want to glue on our Facebook page
there's search under new every day and
if you want to share something like that
I think that would be very powerful a
wonderful way of encouraging other
people so so yeah so here's here's
ananias and I just love the fact that it
says then Ananias went to the house and
entered it placing his hands on Saul he
said didn't see this coming brother Saul
we call him father calls and brother the
Lord Jesus who appeared to on the road
who as you were come here so Jesus let
him in on the whole scoop of what was
happening Oh true because no one would
have told ya well we don't know that but
he wouldn't have known like it true what
sent me has sent me so that you may see
again and be filled with the Holy Spirit
immediately something like scale style
from Saul's eyes and he could see again
and he got up and was baptized and after
taking some food he regained his
strength hmm so ed and I just got up and
went but think about the impact of
Ananias decision to say yes and someone
like Saul was converted and wrote the
majority of the New Testament yes and
like established evangelical church yes
essentially changed the world change the
world and what's interesting is that we
never I don't think we ever hear of
Ananias again in the New Testament I
don't think so either
and all my rate I'm thinking okay and
any I don't think in any of the
greetings yeah we're gonna have to some
research now to check out like Ananias
in the New Testament but if you think
about it like it may be is there someone
that God is asking you to be like you
know what go over and just tell them Who
I am yes and you don't know that person
could be like who was it that actually
witnessed to Billy Graham yeah and I
believe it was either a sunday-school
teacher or just but we don't know him
like he's told the story and that's the
question that comes up all
mine is somebody told Billy Graham about
Jesus yes and then he became he's always
been Billy Graham but then you became
Billy Graham yeah and the Holy Spirit
just flows through him and it's like wow
yeah I'm hit that Sunday school teacher
you know what's faithful to stand up and
offer I know you and the other people
with you yeah and your mom is ready to
take you to church yeah I guess all of
these things you don't know the part
that you might be playing and somebody
else's conversion story and the thing is
you might find yourself like wow I never
saw that coming I simply just walked in
obedience and that's all Jesus is
calling me to today if you want to read
a great book about doing that it's
called the case for grace by Lee Strobel
and he's written it with another author
and you can go on to our partners page
and go to Amazon and you can purchase
the book through there and that way it
helps to support our show and you also
get to enjoy this awesome book about
people who have just stepped out to
share Christ and of their awesome
conversion experience and how they've
experienced the grace of God in their
life I can think of one story and I
can't remember if it's from that book or
not but this gentleman felt compelled to
go into a business setting into an
office and he felt that he needed to
witness - I believe it was one of his
colleagues sitting at a desk and so he
was like okay okay I'm going to go do it
I'm just going to go and share about the
love of God with this person right and
so he walked in shared the gospel and
the person was not receptive at all and
so he left and was like what I don't
even why did you ask me to do that turns
out there was a guy underneath one of
the other desk fixing some computers or
something like that
he heard the gospel was converted yeah
and went on to I forget what else but
anyway if you don't know who's going to
be there hear it wow I didn't see that
coming right and so we want to encourage
you if God is speaking to you ask for an
Ananias spirit like just willing to go
Lord yeah it is come a scene you're
going to tell me something if you ever
tell me something out of the blue give
me a spirit like in when I just say yeah
just say yeah I want
to say I pray for us yes thanks for
saying yes yes you can
Lord I just think for the people who
have you placed in our lives who have
said yes to you and as a result they
shared with us about your amazing
lessons about Jesus the fact that you
came and you died for us and you rose
again and they shared with us about Holy
Spirit and God I thank you for their
faithfulness of other people who've come
before us and Lord would you encourage
us I know that you've already empowered
us with Holy Spirit to be bold because
you say the righteous are as bold as a
lion and what more would you help us to
people to say yes of the things that
you're asking us to do I pray for our
viewer Lord that you would encourage
them give them boldness to share as well
because we we have the words of life
and they're your words god they're
life-giving that we can have new life in
Christ receive forgiveness
I just thank you for that I pray in
Jesus name Amen thank you so much for
tuning in thanks for praying with us if
you would like to check out our Facebook
page go on their search new every day
go to our website new every day calm and
we move over the dusting
anyway to every day's Aussie be and
we're going to see you next week and
we're going to continue this story
