now tonight we're gonna be looking at
LibreOffice it's a free alternative to
Microsoft Office right Houston I've used
it and reason to work yes I use it for
work I have it on my laptop here oh yes
yes I love it I was free it's free I
love free I love it I don't love
everything about like the translation
between hmm programs it's like it's so
close to Microsoft Office yet there are
so many distinctions that make it
obvious that it's not Microsoft Office
exactly so when you're in writer
LibreOffice writer which is very much a
word clone yeah there's so much about it
that is like it's not word things are
not where I expect them to be any
guesses why that would be because it's
free sure and that's that's what
everyone that's the right answer that
everyone will give right off the bat
it's the free alternative so I got to
live with the fact that it's different
right and that's true to some degree but
let me just put some clarity to that
statement okay if I was a and as amazing
of a developer as the open document
foundation and was able to create
something that was an exact one-to-one
clone of Microsoft Office right how do
you as a lawyer think Microsoft is going
to react to that
yes right clear yes so there is a
purposeful distinction between Libre
Office and Microsoft Office okay because
if it's too close if it's too similar
now we're potentially infringing into a
space that could lead to legal
ramification like static and some
friction in this a little bit yes yeah
okay just enough but it's up to us users
and part of the whole open aspect of
Linux
and free software and open-source
software it's it's up to us to be able
to control the way that we are able to
interact with our computers and our
software that's part of the beauty of
Libre and open source software right so
with that in mind what's to stop me the
user from adding a few little
enhancements if you will to take my
LibreOffice which is not infringing on
Microsoft's design at all and make mine
feel and look and operate not exactly
like we're not talking a one-to-one it
is a different product but let's see
what we can do to make it a little more
familiar to us yes so I'm gonna hop over
to my laptop here and I've got Ubuntu
Linux up on my screen and indeed this is
running in Microsoft Windows on hyper-v
as we've learned over the past two weeks
on category 5 technology TV so I'm gonna
log in here I tell you why I'm seeing an
Ubuntu login screen as opposed to but
hey there it is alright so I'm gonna
bring up a writer okay and you're gonna
see that hey this really does look
fairly similar it does like even the
keyboard shortcuts are very similar yeah
I mean I'm not a big keyboard shortcut
person in word but hello and if I
control a control B control you yeah
control I I mean I can do those kinds of
things
great that's helpful right but what can
I do to make this look a little more and
behave a little more like Microsoft
Office so I'm just gonna close out of
that we're gonna bring up our Firefox
browser here that comes with Ubuntu now
do keep in mind here Sasha in community
I'm doing this on a boon too because we
do have a Linux bias and I want you to
see that hey this works great on Linux
but you can install LibreOffice on
Windows and Mac as well I have it at my
office I run on Windows but I have your
Windows 10 yeah
so you've installed LibreOffice because
it's a free version of
an office suite that is compatible with
Word documents and Excel spreadsheets
and things you can save in those formats
you can open those formats so it really
is a one-to-one replacement in that
regard exactly but a lot cheaper right
being like being percent cheaper yes a
hundred percent no matter what price you
find this is cheaper so let's get over
here and where I want to go is X now
we're gonna do a couple of different
steps here I should just say we're going
to set up our LibreOffice writer in
particular to behave more like Microsoft
Word so it's not just interface I'm
starting with autocorrect and the
dictionary because that's really
important out-of-the-box it drives users
nuts because they say my dictionary
doesn't work on LibreOffice I do a spell
check and it just says everything's fine
and I know there's some typos there I
feel like this feature is all about me
because it's all for you Zack all right
so let's jump over and let's see what we
need to do so I'm going to actually head
over to extensions dot libreoffice.org
and notice that libreoffice.org is in
fact where you would download
LibreOffice from so just leave off the
extensions and you'll be able to
download the free software as well we're
working with version 6 point something
so it's important to note that you have
to be on version 6 in order to do all
that we're doing here today ok so if
your distro or if your operating system
has version 5 which is still great you
want to upgrade to version 6 which came
out in February and now we're October so
it's it's been around a while so you
should have it by now so it's great plus
one just keep in mind you need to have
version 6 or higher
ok so I'm going to do a search here for
English dictionary and you can do a
search for a dictionary that's relevant
to you to your language there are many
I'm going to click on English
dictionaries here and within this page
I'm just going to scroll down a little
ways here and you can see that there is
a file that ends in dot oxt and that's
what I want to download so I'm going to
save that file to my computer and that
puts it in my downloads folder so if I
go in to show all downloads you can see
there's my
shanira file so now I'm going to open
libreoffice writer' and I'm going to go
tools extension manager and I'm going to
click on add from there I'm going to
browse to my downloads and then I see
the dictionary for English double click
on that and it is now installed English
spelling and hyphenation dictionary on
LibreOffice writer and that includes
Australia Canadian British American and
South African English okay so now I can
close that restart LibreOffice and now
as I type it's going to see the spelling
errors oh and if I hit f7 it's going to
actually look it up in the dictionary
there and give me suggestions that I can
use any questions so far I'm gonna do
this alright we're good yes alright so
far you've explained it in a way that I
can actually make it happen fantastic so
that takes us that gives us the
dictionary that's all there is to it but
because it doesn't come with it out of
the box it's tough because hey when I
hit f7 or when I click on spellcheck it
doesn't do anything right yeah I know I
spell some words wrong look I know I
didn't write this entire paper with a
zero it's ten thousand words alright so
there you go there's your dictionary
that's all done and done next step does
have to do with the look of LibreOffice
so it's really important for me I want
to make this look and feel a lot more
like Microsoft Word and similarly
Microsoft Excel and so on and so forth
the whole suite is there with
LibreOffice so it's twofold first thing
that we're going to do is look at the
icon set now if you install libreoffice
6.1 it comes with something called Koli
Brae and that is an icon set that has
been basically manufactured to look like
Microsoft Office icons but not infringe
on their rights
yeah and not cause any legal issues but
there's a different one now I don't have
six point one let's look at what version
of LibreOffice came with a boon to here
6.0 point three point two so I
purposefully kept myself held back at
6.0 because I want to show you a way to
get those or at least similar icons on a
slightly older version 6.0 without
having to upgrade or anything like that
but again you've got to have 6.0 so what
I'm gonna do I'm gonna jump over to my
web browser again I'm gonna close out of
libreoffice here and we're gonna go cat
v dot TV slash Libre libr e office icons
that's where we want to go and the
reason I want to take you here this is
gonna take us over to deviantART and
this is the office 2013 theme that's
just loading here and this theme was
created a while back back in 2015 and
it's built specifically to look very
similar to office 2013 the reason that I
want to show this to you is because it
will work with libreoffice all the way
back to 5.1 okay but Robby you said we
need six point something that's because
of the third step that we're going to be
taking tonight this icon set will
improve the look of your LibreOffice
writer and Excel calc and all those
applications even if you have an older
version 5.0 X right but we want 6.0 yeah
for the next step so for this one it's
going to work with anything and we've
got 6.0 so we're golden
on 6.0 I can just download the extension
on older versions 5 point X you're going
to have to follow these instructions
here because I'm on 6.0 I can just
download the extension and here we go
it's taking me over to the author's
onedrive I'm gonna click download and
again it's just gonna now I don't want
to open it I want to save it that's
gonna throw it into my downloads as well
there it is office 2013 theme 1.1 0 XT
so notice again it ends in dot o XT so
open LibreOffice we're going to go back
into our extension manager tools
extension manager and we're gonna add
again
and we're gonna go into our downloads
and we're gonna grab that
office 2013 theme open and now that
one's installed so now I can close that
and restart there we go
nothing's changed why has nothing
changed now next step tools options view
and you're gonna see now there's a new
icon style called office 2013 if we
click on that and now I want to change
my icon size to I probably want to go
large no notebook bar icon size in 6
point X make that large and then hit OK
and watch what happens boom looks
beautiful right yes icon theme looks a
lot better so now the final step and
this is why we need version 6 or higher
is what do we know about Microsoft
Office and the way that it operates on
our computers now as far as the
interface goes they've done away with
kind of like the file menu in the Tools
menu and and instead everything works in
tabs mm-hmm ok so that's where this
notebook bar which is a reasonably new
feature I mean February of this year
that's where this comes in and you'll
notice if you go view toolbar layout
you've got default single tool bar and
side bar none of those are what we want
so what we need to do is go tools
options now we want to go into advanced
and in advanced you see an option that
says enable experimental features maybe
unstable which being translated is turn
on the features that we don't want
Microsoft to see out of the box right I
didn't say it did I say it
oh my microphone was on oh oh ok so hit
OK now restart and then here we go now
are you ready yes view toolbar layout
what do you notice
Oh single toolbar sidebar and notebook
bar that's what we want in three two one
ladies and gentlemen yeah the closest
thing that you're ever gonna find right
now in 2018 third quarter to Microsoft
Office for free if you will I mean I say
Microsoft Office this is an alternative
it's not a clone it's not a this is an
alternative to Microsoft Office because
we want something that we're familiar
enough with that we can use it on our
work computers and we don't get stuck
trying to find things you're gonna find
that the layouts are much much simpler
you're gonna be able to find the things
that you need like paragraph spacing and
things like that all everything just
makes more sense now if you're stuck and
if you or if you want to revert or if
you want to change things notice that
there is a menu option over here to turn
on the menu bar now watch the top of my
screen as soon as I hit that now I've
got my regular menus back I'll edit view
so I can always revert back if I want to
okay but then I can click on that
hamburger menu and turnoff menu bar when
I'm done and it goes back to that
Microsoft Office style layout would that
improve the communication kind of
between the two if I'm trying to open
something that was created in Microsoft
Office well with LibreOffice 6 the inter
inter communication ability between the
the file formats has been greatly
improved oh it's always been really good
but what that means is that if somebody
in your office is using Microsoft Word
legitimately that is true they can send
you a docx file or docx and you can open
it you can make changes to it you can
save it and then you can send it back to
them and it will look great now where it
may fall short is if you start
formatting things with fancy fonts or
things like that that your computer has
that their computer does not because
remember with a Word document it's it
doesn't include the father
TTFN the font files in there so they
have to install the same fonts that you
okay I'm gonna just throw you a quick
scenario yes so Microsoft Excel
calc on LibreOffice writer creating a
spreadsheet that my computer in calc
would love to print but when I open it
it's like this big on the page is that
because I just don't have the rights you
know what I'd probably have to see that
sample Oh cuz it could be so many
different things darn I thought it was
just like you know would it be nice if
it was just yeah you should be able just
to open up try it with the new with the
newer version exactly right LibreOffice
cookies maybe it's just gonna work bingo
bango just like that when I do talk
about fonts this is the one thing that
you will encounter not so much with
Excel because typically you don't
stylize it like you do with words when I
do talk about fonts if you're on Linux
yeah there is a way for you to quickly
and we've looked at this on the show
before but to quickly get the Microsoft
fonts like Times New Roman this is
important for you if you're expected to
be using Times New Roman I'm just gonna
go into terminal ok and I'm gonna go
sudo su cuz I'm on a boon to enter my
password and apt update this is only for
Linux so everything else that I've done
is it transcends Windows Linux whatever
but if you have Linux you probably want
those microsoft fonts apt install and I
think it's MS TTFN - MS core fonts let's
see if that's right no I'm gonna do a
quick search for you TTFN MS core fonts
let's see what what filename it is TTFN
- MS core fonts installer that's what I
messed so - installer say yes and what
that's gonna do is it's going to give
you Times New Roman Arial all that kind
of stuff hit tab enter do you accept the
end-user License Agreement yes and here
we go I'm going to now I'm just going to
show you quickly so here's hi there and
I'm gonna highlight that and let's see
here let's look for Ariel for example
notice there's no Ariel no
I'm gonna close libreoffice writer'
don't save now that's finished so now
when I reopen LibreOffice writer it now
has access to any new fonts that were
installed in the system hello
highlight that now let's grab our fonts
here what do you notice real yeah and
things like comic sans ms but also I
mean Times New Roman is a popular one
for education let's see if it's here
there you go
Times New Roman see so really quick
things that you can do to make Libre
Office the free office alternative
behave and feel pretty much I mean a lot
closer to Microsoft Office it's not a
one-to-one folks but it takes that to
the next level for you so that you can
feel a little more comfortable with it
when you're using LibreOffice the free
alternative to Microsoft Office on your
computer give it a chance give it a try
it's libreoffice.org and follow the
steps that we've shown you here tonight
to make it feel a little more like
you're used to
super thank you and if it's not working
for you right then by all means go out
and buy office exactly you know what I
mean give it a try try to get
comfortable with it see if you can use
it for a couple of weeks and see how it
works for you do these steps make it
feel good if you've possibly saved
yourself a fair bit of money yeah you
know what go out and price out yeah go
to your pricing first I'm happy with
this even if there are a couple of
little quirks that are not quite exact
[Music]
[Applause]
