here's what's coming up in the category
five TV newsroom hackers are now turning
to in-store kiosks to have your SIM card
swapped so that they can access
two-factor authentication on your
accounts a security plug-in for the
firefox browser is under fire after
users discovered it was collecting and
uploading their online activity linux
4.18 is now available after a number of
well-documented hiccups and you're not
the only one of feeling rundown by the
news of the day the folks at Google
apparently believe we could all use a
dose of good news at times too the
company has announced it is testing a
new Google assistant feature called tell
me something good that will allow users
to hear a summary of of more uplifting
news stories stick around the full
details are coming up later in the show
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand new beautiful website what are you
you're a terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap 5 dot TV slash
dream host to sign up for unlimited web
hosting for your website with unlimited
email accounts MySQL databases the
latest version of PHP WordPress and more
and even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight Linux bias I'm Sacha Rickman and
here are the top stories were following
this week a Bitcoin investor is suing
18t for 240 million dollars after it
allegedly ported his his phone number to
a hacker allowing the criminal to steal
224 million dollars in cryptocurrency
Michael Turpin is suing the phone giant
for the value of the 3 million
electronic coins plus 216 million
dollars in punitive damages after he
claims an AT&amp;T employee at a store in
Connecticut agreed in person to transfer
his personal phone number to a new SIM
card despite the account having a high
risk protection following an earlier
hacking effort the anonymous hacker then
used his access to terpenes phone phone
number to bypass security on his
cryptocurrency accounts thanks to two
factor authentication sent by text and
transferred millions of dollars to a
different account an approach known as
sim swap fraud Turpin claims AT&amp;T
admitted to him that the employee in
question agreed to shift the SIM card
despite the security requirement that
they ask for a valid form of ID and
having ignored an additional VIP
requirements that they provide a special
six digit passcode before changes are
allowed on the account that sixth digit
extra security stuff was introduced
after turpan says his account had been
targeted and hacked six months earlier
through the same approach that time he
says a hacker made no less than 11
in-store attempts to steal his SIM
information before finally succeeding on
both occasions the first turpan knew of
the hack was when his phone went dead
the second time he says he knew
instantly Oh what had happened and
immediately tried to contact AT&amp;T to
shut the phone down but it was stymied
by the fact that it was a Sunday and a
TNT's fraud Department apparently does
not work on Sundays by the time he
regained access 23 point eight million
dollars in Bitcoin had gone missing by
failing to follow procedures and giving
the extra security on his accounts
Turpin claims that AT&amp;T had broken
multiple
Lauzon lists no less than 16 claims for
relief ranging from negligence to breach
of contract to insufficient security and
providing on lawful access to personal
information AT&amp;T for its part has
promised to fight the lawsuit a
representative said we disputes these
allegations and look forward to
presenting our case in courts come on
now AT&amp;T has a lot of money so if
they're okay they're fighting in court
this poor Turpin guy is gonna be out all
of his millions of Bitcoin we got a big
problem here in this world right now
because a company like AT&amp;T may not look
at cryptocurrency as a commodity right
so you know you should have protected
yourself there are so many problems with
this now first of all we're giving the
benefit of the doubt to the person who
has had this happen to him right of
course it in itself could be fraud right
that's saying oh somebody stole my SIM
card and blah blah blah
that could be fraud but we're giving him
the benefit of the doubt and saying okay
well let's pretend let's just say that
the news story is correct and this
actually happened in the way that he
described which could happen then we've
got a few problems with AT&amp;T
first of all we know that their staff
those who are working at the kiosks are
not necessarily trained in anti fraud
right and if that's the case why are
there not things in place that say okay
this person is subscribe to our ultimate
security package nobody absolutely
nobody who works for us is able to make
any changes to that account without true
authentication first of all we know that
the ID is a factor right yes so think
about that hold that in the back of your
mind for a moment but why is an employee
able to circumvent the requirement that
is put in place think about that for a
moment guys
so we live in a world of entitlement
people are entitled and they feel
entitled and staff are taught that the
customer's always right
okay so in in in this world we also live
in a world that is very well-versed at
how to use social engineering in order
to control those who are on the
receiving end so social engineering is
able to trick the victim into providing
something that is giving that person
information that can be used to then
trick the employee into believing that
they are the person right right social
engineering can also be used on the
flipside with the AT&amp;T employee
remembering that we live in a world of
entitlement and we live in a world where
AT&amp;T employees are taught the customers
right right and I walk in it my phone's
been stolen I need you to cancel that
SIM card immediately I don't have my
wallet like come on like let's make this
happen it's like this has to happen now
I I'm right okay sorry sir okay let's
see what okay
let me see let me see how I can help
right the employee is a victim as well
all right yes so AT&amp;T the company
obviously doesn't have something in
place that an access denied
right I'm sorry sir I'm trying to
override it but but I can't there the
message on my screen says first of all
now it had I as the AT&amp;T employee had
training in anti fraud I'd say okay hold
on one second sir I'm just gonna pick up
the phone and I'm just gonna call the
number for this phone okay I'm gonna
okay I've got an answer hello
okay what's the answer to your security
question okay the guy's standing here
before me didn't know that answer what's
this and that right
right okay there's something going on
here I need to push that button under
the desk that's had I had anti fraud for
training I would have known to do that
that's obviously that doesn't sound like
the case here so but had AT&amp;T had
something in place that says no you're
not allowed to override this it's not
possible for the staff member who could
also be in on it right to override this
then it never could have happened
so AT&amp;T is liable don't kid yourself
right they certainly are
but is it true that they also don't have
fraud prevention on 24/7 right that
seems I mean it must be because you've
said everything weird yeah right in a
world where fraud can happen at any
point in the day I think when it comes
down to is like kiosks and stores are
extensions of the actual company when
when you go in and you order a service
they pick up the phone and they dial in
to the head office and they order that
service on your behalf and set it up
with with the head office and really
they're just an extension or a third
party in a way right so they should not
have the power to do what they did they
should have better training when it
comes to anti-fraud but that's not an
end-all be-all because you could still
have a malicious party working for you
right they should have something in
place that says no there is a process
this person had the ultimate security
package and yet the process could be
overridden by a minion if you will
somebody who works at the kiosk in the
mall ah how is that possible there is a
definite failure there on ATS permanent
turf in you have a fight to fight but
you're gonna win regardless I mean I'm I
regardless of being on his side or not
on his side it's the company needs to
realize that this cannot happen this
cannot be possible to happen it's taking
it to a case completely away from the
18c side had I realized that my phone
which I use for two-factor
authentication was
thing or had gone dead right his first
step should not have been to call AT&amp;T
absolutely not absolutely not he should
have been logging into all of his
services no I guess he couldn't
two-factor authentication wouldn't allow
him to log into a service right
hopefully those services would have a
way to notify install ESET mobile
security which has anti-theft that
wouldn't work either if your phone was
stolen it would ah this is a real dilly
so that it all comes down to AT&amp;T
there's nothing happy to done better
that's a a heartbreak a security plug-in
for the Firefox browser is under fire
after users discovered it was collecting
and uploading their online activity the
outcry began after Mozilla featured the
web security extension on its blog with
a post title to make your Firefox
browser a privacy superpower the plug-in
developed by German company creative
software solution bills itself as a tool
for blocking malicious pages and
phishing sites it also allegedly logs
what web pages the user visits shortly
after the post went up you block origin
developer Raymond Hill noticed that the
plug-in was gathering and transmitting
the address of visited websites to a
server in Germany word got back to
Mozilla and the org moved to strike the
link to web security from its blog and
investigate the matter the reference to
the extension has been removed from the
blog post as part of the investigative
process the developer of the plugin
creative software solutions Managing
Director Fabien Simon says that the
collection of browsing information is
only done to check a site against web
Security's global blacklist he says his
company does not know why Mozilla pulls
the link to web security but creative
plans to submit an updated version of
the extension for a review to prove that
it is not doing anything untoward
untoward or not you're not doing it
right right well that makes me indignant
okay so this this is obviously not how
security should work but I don't exactly
know the answer of how sure I mean
obviously don't collect your house you
can send it crashes checksums
right you know like the the information
that I'm entering into my browser should
not be transmitted in any form that's
readable by a server so they're saying
okay if you visit a web site your
computer now needs to notify our server
of that web site that you're visiting so
that we can then send a response whether
or not it's compromised or safe mm-hmm
right that would be the theory right so
that's what they're saying okay well
your computer has to send us that
website address so that we can then
respond that's a good thing yeah no no
if you've got a blacklist so if the if
the service provider has a blacklist
they can have checksums
so they create an algorithm right an
algorithm that creates checksums for
those web domains that it knows are bad
right okay and then your computer the
plug-in creates a checksum based on the
the site that you're visiting and
compares checksums
right and in such a way that you're not
even sending the checksum to that host
server because then they can reverse
engineer the checksum that you sent and
see where you've been which yeah it's
your private activity you should not
have to send it anywhere
III run nems Linux as we all know and
one of the one of the issues that I ran
into yeah not an issue one of the
challenges that I faced because my users
wanted to have encrypted off-site backup
service off-site backup services what
they wanted I knew it had to be
encrypted mm-hmm because I didn't want
anyone being able to steal their data
right but I also don't personally want
access to their data how do I do that I
want them to be able to access their
data but I do not want access to their
data if I decided to go row
and access this data I don't want to be
able to do that right right that's how
good programming is done so without
getting into the intricacies of NEMS
off-site backup service the checksum is
created on their server and the checksum
is shared with our server the encryption
is created on their server the
decryption key is not shared with our
server right so my server now has the
checksum which it associates with the
user account so I do have an association
and I can cross check whether it's a
website address or a user's account
information they're associated right but
the files the data the information is
not accessible so get a checksum upload
it to the server for the plug-in the
server says ok this checksum matches
this send it back right now my computer
gets that checksum response and decrypts
it using the key that is only available
on my computer and not on the hosting
server so there are all kinds of ways to
do this without sending information
that's private and we live in a world
where there's technology that's way
beyond me I'm basic by the terms of
what's available out there so this
creative security solutions company is
just kind of kindergarten in their
approach because they believe what
they're doing is right that's why
they're saying you are able to show you
another one and you'll see that we
didn't really mean anything by it
right so they don't mean malicious Ness
in their actions but it's not it's it's
their intent is yeah their intent is
pure I was their program their
programmatic approach to security is as
moot right so Firefox just trusted this
and threw it up on the unfortunately yes
yeah which can happen right I mean we're
looking at you know a plug-in repository
and hey here's a cool looking plug-in
let's feature it let's talk about it
right somebody could feature names Linux
and they don't know the inner workings
of the
underlying code of how it works somebody
says to me why is it touching github
every five minutes and so somebody would
say well why is it touching github every
five minutes
so I explained we use github for our
update system and so your system
actually checks with github whether or
not it's responding if it's not
responding it doesn't do any updates if
it is responding you get your updates
right but it has to check but thank
goodness there are people out there
there are asking questions doesn't send
any information right keep that in mind
so there are people out there checking
hopefully everything always that's it
but not always the case open source is
the way to go exactly yeah you got more
for me I do have more for you yes yes
after a number of well-documented
hiccups Linux a 4.18 is now available
the release includes a raft of new toys
including support for the snapdragon 845
chipset found in high-end mobile phones
and a small number of Windows 10 laptops
the inclusion should mean that the
normal all wipe that and install Linux
comet that follows many a hardware
review can now be applied to Microsoft's
latest and greatest arm-based devices
two other notable enhancements include
support for the Raspberry Pi 3 B + 3 B+
computers along with some early work on
in upcoming AMD and Intel graphics
chipsets in the form of Vega 20 and ice
Lake 11 chips respectfully the the gift
that keeps on giving Spectre also gets
some attention with mitigations for the
v4 variants on 64-bit arm architectures
and v1 v2 mitigations on aging 32-bit
ARM Hardware either hardware such as USB
3.2 and type C also see improvements +
new support for a wider array of sound
chips
I don't know how Elena's does it I mean
come on
yay so Linux of course is an alternate
to Windows Linux the kernel which is
what we're talking about here with 4.18
is taking Linux to the next level and
making it so that it's available on more
platforms always having open source wins
again
community for linux itself is huge and
people find ways to make it work better
make it work on other architectures make
it work on new platforms and they patch
Linux as kernel and then leanest
Torvalds he looks at it reviews the code
and approves the the pull requests and
releases the the final product and so
it's a real collaborative effort and
it's what we're using yeah works great
good community yeah love it you're not
the only one feeling rundown by the news
of the day the folks at Google
new Google assistant feature called
tell me something good that will allow
users to hear a summary of more
uplifting news stories Google says the
stories will focus on people who are
solving problems for our communities and
our world to activate the feature
assistant users in the US can say hey
Google tell me something good to kick
off the daily briefing of happy stories
Google Offers some examples of what the
good news may include like a story about
how Georgia State University stopped
students from slipping through the
cracks or how backyard beekeepers in
East Detroit are bringing back the
dwindling bee population or how Iceland
curbed teen drinking the stories are
selected and summarized by the
nonpartisan nonprofit solutions
journalism Network an organization that
helps train journalists to better cover
how people are responding to problems
and how those actions can have positive
results the stories themselves meanwhile
will be chosen from a wide range of
media outlets Google acknowledges this
feature won't be some sort of magic
bullet but the company says it's an
experiment worth trying because it's
good info about good work that may bring
some good to your day the Google
assistant feature works on any
assistance enabled devices including
mobile phones smart displays or Google
home devices but I understand it's only
in America turns out it's only in
America so I read this write an America
you need good news today so I get in my
car which I hook up to my phone and then
I have
we'll everything right and so I asked my
car just press a little button and I'm
like tell me something good and it said
to me I'm sorry
something good does not exist in your
area give it a try on your phone see how
it see how it works I think it's a great
concept yeah and it kind of plays into
remember how Facebook was manipulating
people right so that's the dark side of
this where they're posting specific
stories to manipulate the global mood
right we're here it's a choice - hey you
know what I want I don't want to hear
what media is giving me I want to hear
what is uplifting I'm gonna hear what's
good okay you have a lot of good folks
so here's a I you may have noticed ma
you know glass half-full sort of person
I don't like to watch the news in the
morning because and I understand that
tragedies do need to be reported upon
but I don't want to start the day
thinking about all of the ills of this
world I want to help everyone I don't I
don't not care about you
I just I'm drinking my coffee and I want
to be lifted right I need this good news
thing to work now there needs to be
balance I think is what it comes down to
like we need information but we live in
such an information overload right now
and when that information overload is
skewed toward the negative because
that's what sells news news had space I
don't know what cell what's the phrase
now you can't say sells newspapers
that's just nothing sells newspapers
anymore sells attention I don't know
what makes you click on the website
there you go yeah when it's we need
balance it's true because if you were to
just randomly pull people out there
after watching regular news or listening
to regular news they would probably give
you a pretty negative pretty glum
outlook on the world
and that affects our mood I mean if you
if you have a bad start to your day yeah
it's not true there are so many good
people
there I mean I even I had a patient call
me I work at a chiropractic clinic and
she said I'm gonna be late for my
appointment I can't even get out of bed
but don't worry my neighbor is gonna
come over and help me get up I will be
there that is newsworthy right it's
newsworthy that somebody out there came
over to someone else's house and helped
them I think because it's so rarely
reported on and it happens all the time
or at least give us something that
motivates us right to want to be that
person exactly you know cuz when I start
the day and I turn on the news give me
the news but give me a little positive
peace that's going to uplift me yeah I
know it's it sounds cliche and cheesy
but I think but you can tell the same
news story in a positive way right so
for example the V keepers in Detroit
right you could have a new story that
says bad the bees are dying which is sad
and true but you could do that or you
could say listen the bees are getting a
helping hand and a chance at life
because there's these people who are
fighting against the the bat and so then
by taking that good news approach do you
think people would say oh wonder if I
could do that right that sounds like
something I could do exactly here in
Barry if I could have a beehive how hard
could it be
yeah but I'm so big thanks to Roy W Nash
in our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
I'm Sasha Richmond and I'm Robbie
Ferguson it's been great having you here
this week and look forward to seeing you
again same time next week that's right
take care everybody
[Music]
