for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
welcome to episode number 276 of
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
the first of January 2013 happy new year
happy new year how was that it was
already loud piercing the ears but
that's alright that was an amazing start
to the year wasn't it that was like
three things that just went wrong he's
got to be around here somewhere for for
those of you who are watching this after
the fact you have no idea other than if
you're following along in the chat logs
just note we are seven minutes into the
show technically so when you're
following along in the chat logs it is
707 so just note that that are we going
to be syncing up to for those of you who
are watching live that was hilarious
from the get-go of signing on the air
tonight I'm blank no sound no sir and
then finally okay we got sound backup no
picture no picture and then our sign
falls down which is bound to happen
again cuz I was a rush job taping that
back up but Wow Happy New Year everybody
yes good to see you Erica been a long
time yes it's been a long time
unfortunately all semester had an
accounting class that started at seven
o'clock Tuesday's that's unreal so you
could even tune in I couldn't even tuned
in I'm sitting there in class learning
some numbers and stuff yeah yeah boy it
was fun having you on the show last week
for the the Christmas special yeah kind
of said that it's gonna said that my new
and people the only mp3 on itunes for me
is me singing joy
I just have to make an album there you
go it's gonna go gold and platinum is
summer this summer 2013 Erica lalonde
sings the greatest hits of who like oh I
do like Backstreet Boy sir Backstreet
Boys um I could do like a CD C's kid how
big is it easy best Christmas gift ever
just saying that is like literally the
coolest shirt I ever see like once i
walked in i was like i have to have i'm
sharing the gut I mean ready well it's
gonna be right there oh it's so awesome
up here you totally pretend that yeah
this brings air guitar to the next level
shirt guitar 2013 that's one
thinkgeek.com if you haven't shopped
there there there a lot of fun over
there I got quite a few gifts from
thinkgeek this year which is never a bad
place to shop for the geek in us said
yeah so much fun yeah and I just finally
started using ebays will ya I'm going
pretty pyramids yeah yeah I'm finding
some cool stuff on ebay because there's
some stuff that was discontinued years
and years ago no I'm actually able to
get now really yeah that's so easy it's
awesome yeah people give these boxes of
old things and to me they're they're
awesome to them it's just old things
well I had to fill up my dorm room
because I don't know living in my little
box I have it's just it's all very blank
so I needed to get lots of posters so
you know bidding on them and then making
sure I get them for cheap prices and
then get your poster in the mail check
and then you go to the front desk and
then you have to sign it off it's pretty
cool awesome plastered in posters now
class certain posters yeah hey did you
check out our Facebook account our
facebook page cat five dot TV / facebook
I
really cool thing that we can actually
see here those of you who are watching
at home you can't see this but if you go
to our Facebook page you'll see it right
over our mantel next generation plaque
which is a really cool thing that my
wife got me for Christmas that is
awesome love it kind of brings out space
fish makes them feel at home with his
space crew they're definitely the star
trek Lionel's gonna bring it to us so we
can actually show this to you oh he's
getting rid of it well show everybody
yeah all right so this is this is on
display up on our mantel there you go so
soon it's actually it's quite a bit
bigger this is also from thinkgeek I was
expecting it to be like eight by ten
something like that but it's obviously
quite a bit bigger than that so it's
just now brings up it brightens up the
room yeah it's like it's like a family
portrait you know thanks Lionel you just
stare at it for a long time we've got
some fun stuff coming up tonight of
course last week was our christmas
special episode number 2 75 we had a lot
of fun doing that for you and and so
this is kind of our first real night
back in two weeks so it kind of feels
like I've been off for two weeks which
is kind of weird um and probably part
and parcel with all the technical
glitches off the top but we had a lot of
fun doing that we do have some
behind-the-scenes kind of bloopers
footage and things like that that you
might want to stick around for also what
else happened during the Christmas
broadcast that we're going to be doing
tonight the giveaway oh yeah you're all
those amazing prizes yes we've got just
a plethora of prizes tonight gonna be
giving those away thank you everybody
for your participation casting your
ballot sending those in to us for the
very special Christmas special last week
we have conducted the draw and we're
ready to announce our winners tonight oh
so lucky to be like Oprah open all these
gifts underneath your chair look oh look
at this Vince I keep on going but then
there's more oh you're gonna vote would
be nice yeah what's coming up in the
newsroom Erica
in the news right now sony has ended
Japanese production of its best-selling
playstation 2 so I guess you gonna have
to hit the hawk shops and yes I can hand
stores cuz not going to be selling them
anymore the hardware first went on sale
in march two thousand in japan and since
then more than 150 million ps2 consoles
have been sold the ps2 was so popular
that it outsold its replacement for the
first three years whoa that's crazy that
is crazy scroll up a little bit there
you go it's been a long time we're
talking about it's been a long time
since you've been on the air with me and
we didn't get a lot of time before the
show to go over it's just helping us
what's coming up yeah what's coming up
in the newsroom is that Sony has
officially halted the production of the
ps2 china is tightening up internet
usage laws and Marvel technology is
facing the biggest ever Peyton passion
fine and Apple has been fined in China
for copyright violation it was pretty
interesting alright so we'll actually
hit those stories in about a half hour
time here category 5 TV so so keep that
on your screen because you eat will be
needing a little bit later I just want
it right for the news no let's just go
let's just go for it that's like year's
resolution do not procrastinate yeah
yeah but in my new year's resolution was
like don't get stressed out so how did I
do it pretty good yeah I tore my hair
out well no looks good boy oh boy my new
year's resolution does not get hurt damn
tired of it and yet you're just going to
the skiing season I how does this happen
I broke my toe yesterday and you
wouldn't even know you wouldn't even
know I walked out and that was another
year you know that was like oh that was
totally you
it go yeah like I was 2012 i mean here
we are 2013 what are you doing to keep
yourself safe sounds he slopes no no
well I've been working all Christmas
break like I came back about three weeks
ago yeah and I've literally been just
skiing all day teaching everyone and who
come like a lot of you got a lot of
foreigners who come to snow valley and
but over the break we've had a lot of
never Evers so it's always a nurse here
beginners me yes and just like I show up
to the bell it's like you get oh here's
this lovely forreal girl she's so cute
but she's never skied before yeah these
are the people that you're teaching see
yeah that's a little sensor it's a
little safer yeah and then I'm literally
like pizza french fries like my arms are
actually sore today cuz last best the
french fries that's part of the training
oh yeah it's like pizzas like bring on
the Vita well like what I would say to
them I'm like do you want a small slice
of pizza or a big slice of pizza but
obviously the big slice of pizza so then
they stopped because it's all about
taking the skis and just stopping that's
how you stop yeah the pizza so all about
the pizza and then if they cry then hot
chocolate later I'd be thinking more
along the lines of eat too much pizza
and then I'd be rolling down the hill
well french fries I think that's like
french fries as long and skinny and then
you just go straight down so I'm always
like k french fries and pizza french
fries and pizza so it's like you know I
get works best of both worlds if you're
a french fry lover which can lead in you
know going straight down the hill or
pizza taking it nice and slow pizza you
get an endorsement on the sale yeah
Commission there but do you want the
pizza of the french fries I don't know
we were talking a lot about pizza I
don't think they go in and then they see
like the pizza and they're just tired of
it they wouldn't even want the pizza I
go for the valley burger hey make sure
you visit our mobile site I've been
working
improve the performance at Comic cat5 TV
you can scan that QR code it is getting
better and better all the time a little
bit of time off over the past couple
weeks so you know day here and there
being able to put in a little bit of
work on making that perform really
really well for you and we'd love to
know also i've heard mixed reports
whether or not it works live from
various devices i know on my ipod touch
for example 4th gen it works perfectly i
can watch live it's inconvenient because
I'm you know I'm sitting here talking on
the air and that's I can't watch the
show while I'm doing that it distracts
the viewers yeah it works so look at
that light here if it works on your
device our iPad first janet works ok
I've heard that the ipad second gen we
heard a report tonight that that is not
functional with the ustream portion of
our app so let us know if it if it works
live I mean you just bring it up during
the live feed even right now on your
portable device mcat 5 TV cool yeah I'm
wondering if the samsung galaxy two that
was my big Christmas present hey yeah
tablet awesome it'll be great for class
and comes with a little keyboard so then
that way spell just instead of bringing
my laptop to class i'll just bring my
tablet and yeah look cool they're happy
new year sign just shifted oh like its
wantin to go it wants to go its new year
i just noticed this is anyone else
notice this at home do you notice this
backstage read the happy new year it's
spelt wrong it's spelt wrong folks hmm
to such effort to put it up there no
it's not it is happy new yer are oh my
god that's hilarious that is your dog
that's shop in the local stores folks
right there but just know that the
sentiment was there and we wish you a
Happy New Year are oh that's amazing let
it go buddy
counter here so it's forever embedded in
the video happy new year our hey we do
appreciate receiving your postcards this
week has been a little funny because the
post office has been open and closed and
open and closed and and that so I would
love to receive your postcard this week
just pop that in the mail you can send a
category 5 technology TV p.o.box 2900 9
Barrie Ontario Canada l4 n7w 7 and we
appreciate receiving those postcards
very very much in category 5 TV is a
member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here and the
international association of internet
broadcast rees also received a photo
this week from for some viewers let's
see if I can bring this up on it works
over so there you go there they are
watching now I realize this is Hilary
and myself on the on the TV so they've
got a flat screen TV in the living room
and and and join the show category 5
that sauce right there just before
Christmas so love receiving your photos
yes send them in yeah thanks for that
and along those lines we used to have a
bit of a thing going on where if you
send us your photos we would give you
some viewer points and big news this
week along the lines of the fact that
we've been doing some work on the
website just with the occasional holiday
here and there through through the past
couple weeks viewer points are now back
in place on category 5 TV and you'll see
that your profiles are in a rudimentary
stage but you can actually log into the
site and you'll be able to see your
profile editing is coming soon but
viewer points are being logged and
you're receiving points every time that
you log in so check that out category
five dot TV we've got some exciting
stuff coming up to in 2013 with viewer
points this is that are you familiar
with 0 points no I actually no it's like
it's like our club z except we're never
going away and so if we accumulate
points you you basically can get points
as a category 5 TV registered viewer and
those points can be redeemed for various
things
stuff like receiving a postcard from the
category 5 team the will autograph for
example things little things like that
or it could be a coupon to receive a
free something from one of our
sponsoring vendors the actual product
there they're just a there's a variety
of different things even discounts we
have coupon codes that we partner with
different companies around the world and
you can order their services through
their websites use the coupon codes that
you receive from your viewer points and
be able to receive really substantial
savings and it's it's big so that was
one day so yeah you want to start
accumulating those nobody who anyone who
had viewer points on the old website
long time ago mm-hmm those viewer points
have rolled over so you don't have to
worry about having lost those they were
saved made a backup of the database
we've converted the database and now
those points are back into place so
everything is is still there well you
guys are greatly taken care of that's
awesome there you go John just
mentioning that he's got a social line
there but it's it's blank right there
just wondering if that means that he's
not social that just means that at one
point when you set up your profile you
didn't give us any icq numbers or msn or
skype IDs or anything like that as I
said when the edit function is put into
place you'll be able to edit those in
and you'll get points for for doing so
as well so that's all I love points
we've got to take a really really quick
break don't go anywhere again we've got
those prizes to give away tonight I'm
going to be showing you a little bit
more about what we've got to give away
we've also got your viewer comments and
questions and join us in the chat room
category 5 on freenode its category five
dot TV and click on interact and join us
in the chat room and we'd love to have
your questions there we'll be right back
after this at eco alkalines we believe
you should be able to trust your
batteries not just here but here here
and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here
eko alkalines of the world's first and
only certified carbon neutral battery
manufactured to the highest standards of
recycling and quality without any trace
amounts of harmful chemicals like
mercury lead or cadmium eco alkalines
provide performance the rivals leading
national alkaline battery brands at a
comparable price find out more about the
Eco alkalines difference eco alkalines
calm
singing into her face you can speed it
up good idea hey Ravi hey Sasha how you
doing good how are you good how are you
oh good
to us what and anyone consultation see
the first time was the best it was that
was before the cameras run yeah okay
just keep coming he's gonna have a whole
pile of blooper reel isn't he yeah okay
yes don't matter what happens um should
I just walk over and get the guitar now
or did you want that on camera or what
are we doing may have my eggnog back I'm
sorry that was the worst i think i've
ever played it my intonation was all
over the place it wasn't the worst oh
yes you're right oh my goodness little
harsh don't you think you hit me with
the boat consistently I one note it made
me giggle every time it was just that
one though yeah there was one note as it
is it here there there it is it didn't
hit hard we'll be miles away
doza that could be your playing
different chords from what I'm playing
hang a shining star upon the one tape on
cheese I didn't how to do it yeah Holy
Infant so tender and mild Sleep what are
you doing sleeping heirloom
you did it sorry have you done to me
silent night holy night oh I always
almost make it through the first turn
hurry it's really hot over here by the
fire
sigh just keep going Rachel you can do
this so Rachel are you ready to sing
your song okay ah it's a beautiful oh
holy night it's not filming anymore
right right this is category 5
technology TV triple w category five dot
TV great to have you here tonight yes
great to see you guys well that was a
lot of fun people of genres oh they must
have put a picture of a cloud up little
story yeah from a way back with range on
shoe oh we did have a lot of fun making
that for you though that was that was
great and through the course of our
christmas special episode 2 75 from last
week we mentioned the whole slew of
prizes that we're going to be giving
away and that draw is tonight just so
you know i mean here's the the new
liquid this is the level 10 m from
thermaltake that really cool aluminum
mouse I know you've-you've yeah using a
half hour so it's nice it feels great
and good don't show the way yep we also
have some sentry talk buds to give away
these are had headphones that that
include a built-in microphone so you can
actually I actually have a pair they
also very cool it was mentioned on the
show that perhaps these could be used
while driving and you could use it as a
hands-free the company contacted us and
said no you can't do that because you
have you can't have earphones in your
ears when you're driving but certainly
you know if you're walking around I
guess good case scenario you're
you're on the campus right and i'm on a
bus than that listen to music and as
soon as a call comes and you don't have
to fumble with wires and normally just
kind of answer it well buses are
different in Toronto than Barry so it's
you have to rush to get on the bus right
right push through people oh dear so
we've got those we've also got that
wonderful brother business the the new
business end business smart printer
sorry the mfc j 4 5 10 DW which we
reviewed on the show recently back on
episode number 274 that printer is going
to be given away tonight we've got some
eco alkalines batteries from eco
alkalines calm and a bunch of other
stuff so stick around are going to be
taking a look we're going to be actually
awarding those to those of you who
entered your ballots so stick around in
the meantime we are now ready for
they're ready now so if you want to let
people know what's what's actually
happening this would be an appropriate
time ok best time for the news so leave
all four I was um the ps2 was so popular
that it it outsold its replacement for
the first three years that the
PlayStation 3 was available and by
ending production sony has fueled rumors
that it is putting manufacturing
resources towards the PlayStation 4 oh
that makes really cool i'll be getting
that one so china has tightened its
rules on internet usage to enforce a
previous requirement that users fully
identify themselves the service
providers really hmm the move is a part
of the package of which state-run xperia
news agency said it would protect
personal information but critics believe
the government is trying to limit
freedom of speech I'm just staying with
internet usage mm-hmm so us chipmaker
marvell technology faces having to pay
one of the biggest ever patent damages
Awards a jury
berg found the film guilty of inferring
too hard disk innovations owned by local
university carnage milan it said marvel
should pay one point 17 billion
incompetent comprehension however that
some should be multiplied up to three
times by the judge because the jury had
also said the ACT had been willful
Marvel shares fell more than ten percent
not really what we need when hard drive
pricing is already up after all the
floods a couple years ago and all that
kind of stuff and drives are finally
starting to stabilize and now one of the
main chip manufacturers is going onion
fringing on patents never a good thing
yes acorda has ordered Apple to pay
compensation that 28 Chinese writers and
two companies for violating their
copyrights they had claimed that
unlicensed lecture on occasions of their
books have been sold on Apple's online
store the court ordered Apple to pay
them equivalent of around 165,000 in
compensation this is the second time
Apple has fined for copyright violation
in China well and get the full stories a
category 5 newsroom the category 5
newsroom is researched by Roy w Nash
with contributions by our community of
viewers if you have new stories you
think is where the on-air dimension
email newsroom at category five dot TV
and for the category five TV news room
I'm Erica Lou lon Erica thank you so
much tonight's show is brought to you in
part by quarter eee electric you can
find them at quarter eee electric com
also get yourself a free one month trial
of netflix a cat5 TV / netflix if you
receive some kind of a device for
christmas you were mentioning that you
received a new tablet and i got netflix
on it you got five dot TV / netflix will
give you a free month so you can give it
a try and then beyond that it's like
eight bucks a month if you want to
continue
I'm sure you will unlimited movies and
shows and we're starting to see more
current stuff as well new release movies
making their way to Netflix here in
Canada and also really and my wife and I
are really enjoying some of the TV shows
that are definitely season I love
Netflix how it just remembers where you
are in a season in an episode in yeah
and it just it shows you what you
already watch so I go back and I go okay
I watched episode say actually and I
watched five already so I must be on
seven cuz for me i'm very forgetful you
used to do this we used to write down
the name of the show and episode season
one episode one season 1 episode 2 and
then cross them off as we went and quite
often that we get lost or misplaced or
we forget to write one down and we've
already seen this episode Netflix
actually remembers where you are in the
season and in the episode so if you have
to stop at halfway through an episode it
remembers where you are and then picks
it up where you left off so next time I
sit down to watch sliders it's picking
it up exactly where I left off the last
time we watched it so and my favorite
thing about it is that everyone in your
family can use it yeah I you kids use it
like crazy and so all the
recommendations for Robbie I like Barney
and Caillou and all these recommended
you're wondering you're like woods all
of my sci-fi has been bumped off the
list most recently watched like that
slew of children's shows yeah what I
like is like I could be using mine and
then you know my whole family can use it
back home and then I share it with
everyone so you can and what I like now
with my tablet I have this app that I
can use it as a remote so whatever is on
my tablet to go on the TV oh really yeah
I've never done that it's actually
pretty cool like I just got it on on on
I haven't used it yet but i'm planning
to use it because my TV in my dorm room
is my laptop so okay it's pretty much
Netflix yeah good controller like I so I
thought like in my friends rooms I could
just take my remote and then well my new
tablet and then
that's a big moment for taking her mom
just point yeah point and then get my
netflix on the TV which is not you know
on your little screen and you know see
what happened cool so I kind of excited
about that as well hmm very cool so that
was that that was your your your big
Christmas cool thing and I got showed
you a couple of things that I got as
well so let us know in the chat room
tell us that it would just open
conversation did you get anything that
was really kind of tech geeky and
something out of the ordinary or
interesting we'd love to know about it
oh absolutely interesting stuff I was
told by good guy gasps samsung galaxy
actually is a remote there you go there
we go Toby got two tablets to your
tablet like duct tape one to each thigh
and just goes of the remote you know
just go crazy control everything well
they get details I got a new laptop that
seems like that's all he checked out
this Christmas there you go new ipod
well I'm bingo all right it's kelly new
ipod for Toby as well Toby Toby somebody
like raided the supercenter like well
loaded up oh we you I haven't tried that
the wii u and what do you think of that
so far rug or got that for for for his
nephews oh we're thrilled about that
well any new game cystic talk was a
naughty one this year's got a lump of
coal good one robbed or glad to hear it
okay well we also have a question on the
show very good and it says does zoran OS
you're on use xorg calm calm to
configure multiple displays I believe
that I'm running the latest version I
have to nivea and 8400 series graphic
cards three monitors and thank you
dennis killer so what Dennis is saying
there is that he's got two video cards
each
probably have two outputs he's got two
monitors on one video card and one
monitor on the other so three monitors
all together wanting to use xorg.conf to
configure those within or and OS and
yeah you can do that by default if i'm
not mistaken Zorin OS will not have an X
or calm but it will look for it on boots
so if you configure it then you you can
boot up and see if it works keep-keep a
live CD handy because it is good to be
able to or just be able to like log into
linux and mount the harddrive because
that file if you create an X or comp
that for some reason messes up your boot
you can rename it or remove it or edit
it and reboot again but yeah once you've
created that it should pick it up for
you absolutely I noticed that a lot of
comments have come in this week as well
I think with with Dean our christmas
special in the last week and nobody was
actually physically here but yeah i'll
read and we got a viewer testimonial
awesome so it says this is a viewer
testimonial it's not a question but it's
not difficult words related to lenox
like common line cloud grab okok dyson
not sure what this means more or less
and so on so also this is not a news
item so i won't call up strange place
names clouds again enjoyed sorry that it
wasn't rachel here die reenact us we
would have had another laughing fit
anyway I wanted to say I really enjoyed
last week's show despite Eric saying my
name a thousand times or so and I so I
wanted to take some time to let you know
with a testimonial after all category 5
is more than just TV there's a community
and that means interaction from
presented a fewer but also from the
viewers to find people who make it
possible and Robbie provides so much to
make that possible I thought it would be
a good idea to analogous and send it
again thank you all for the experience
and have a great time everyone not just
the team but for all you watching as
well greetings shot well that was very
nice Cheers talk yeah we love receiving
your kind words absolutely and it needs
a lot thank you yeah if you can't send a
postcard a viewer testimonials just so
good yeah actually and and you know that
extends as he said not just the the
on-air people but also the community and
those you know Heather who is here
tirelessly every weekend and shooting
photos and I think she loves it she's
like nah nothing yeah yeah you know all
the people who are involved in and the
work that was spent on on the Christmas
special and everything everybody who is
involved in that as well um it's you
know amazing things together so well
thanks job it was good so now we got a
comment from tob 33 should I say that
right no no sleet it's Toby Toby and I
love it when somebody says tlb 33 and I
think I think he does that on purpose
really love it yeah that's like when
someone says four to five and then they
say I'm gonna be there in 45 but they
just put the four to five and they say
sound it out instead of actually saying
45 like you too yeah well thank you you
too that's just uh I'm not good Ben Toby
you got me there i just read cricket so
hi Robbie and Sasha Krista Eric Rachel
Hillary Erica Abigail carry and everyone
else the category five and the million
viewers who are watching and everyone in
the chat room merry Christmas to
everyone every last one of you thank you
for all giving us an awesome show every
Tuesday technically it's Wednesday
morning for me but hope you hope to be
in the chat room on Christmas special on
my new
up top hope you um hope all you and your
families have a happy category 5 Linux
Christmas Robbie I hope you got all your
co-host Lennox install cds for Christmas
did I do that to you no no I could hook
you up though I definitely want on there
now that all the student let neglect on
my laptop I had to bring in my laptop to
Robbie to fix it well we got hooked up
with some ESET nod32 antivirus which is
good that will keep you safe yeah
malwarebytes and all that kind of stuff
to keep you safe online thank you toby
for the for the email of course that was
sent just before our christmas special
because we weren't live for a Christmas
special we we had to read it tonight
instead of last week but we appreciate
that merry Christmas to you as well
belated but I think you got the message
last week and happy New Year to you yes
and now we have another comment so it
says this is from royal Roy wash w wash
hey Robbie in the category 5 team past
and present both in front of the camera
and behind the scenes and all the
viewers around the world wish you a very
happy christmas and a prosperous new
year cheers Roy yeah appreciate that
very much merry christmas happy new year
to you and wishing you all the best and
to your family as well and we just were
thinking of you this season Roy is
heavily involved in the show as well who
sends in the news that we read in the
news room sometimes at the beginning of
the show that's what yeah you gotta get
right into it funny part of their
community to guest Harry who joins us in
the chat room tonight mentions that he's
got the crews tablet which has yeah
which has android 2.3 says that the the
live feed is working well from bay
that's mcat five dot TV so seems to be
working from that particular device as
well which is good news because i wasn't
i wasn't absolutely certain about the
android end of it but sounds like you
should you can see understand you stream
provides the live feed for the mobile
app so unfortunately you know if it
doesn't work on a particular device my
hands are tied
because it's provided by ustream so I'm
glad to see that they're supporting it
on Android that's that's good news mmm
Toby just mentioned that he doesn't do
the leap thing on purpose that's why you
don't meet I don't know it's kind of
funny it got me I think so what we have
I mean I've got so much stuff I'd love
to talk about tonight we've got it we've
we haven't received a whole lot of
questions in the chat room people are
just chatting and having a nice time but
we've got these fantastic prizes for you
I know that many of you who are joining
us in the chat room got your ballots in
i'll just remind you as well that if if
you did want to you know download the
music from last week's show you can do
that on our website episode number 2 75
at this point you know it's it's it's
new year but inside but we're giving you
the the option to download that for free
thank you also to those who donated for
having downloaded the music as well that
means a lot awesome yes helps us to
afford the bills that it takes to run
the show we appreciate your support very
very much and I appreciate the support
on the downloads like that definitely
makes me feel a lot better about myself
I enjoyed the mp3's hey I think it's
also cool so yeah I guess let's uh kiss
babies horizon we've got oh boy I can't
even I mean we've got the printer here
it could try Tim I live small children
every week for you know my job so I
think we could do this if you can okay
so we've got the level 10 m that's
awesome okay we've got the talk buds to
give away as well let you stack these up
we've got eco alkalines now I've just
brought it a pack but we're actually
giving away assorted packs of these so
you'll receive a box that has you know a
good little assortment of batteries from
eco alkaline scom also
but throwing things you I'm having a
great day all right and the big boy
there it is we've got a brother mfc j
45-10 DW other we'd love to send your
wing so and lots of other prizes as well
ah there we go how is it we have now
we're pikes lifetime license we've got
ESET nod32 antivirus one year licenses
as well oh there we go definitely
interested in that so did you cast your
ballots I hope you cast your ballots if
you're watching live in some chat room
we want to get excited with you if you
win all right you ready I'm ready I'm
gonna try it now the computer is gonna
start spewing out some names here ok I
can try to read like every second one if
you want to shout out that it's gonna go
real fast ok lots of ballots that were
received thank you for sending in your
ballots hey Dennis Kelly good luck
invincible mutant jawed JP Tobey
tick-tock everybody who's joining us in
the chat room here we go let's do this
all right gem stir tipster visible mute
analyst guest Harry Mickey Biggs got
Dennis Kelly there's your name cheese
eel I'll Kent Hrothgar Chris Reich Troy
74 JP there you are I mean sit rd Blair
Gus 62 Louie gustav 0 vanni lord of
sporks DJ Mike Cassandra
saunders a jameson gee pop 7m weasel
Carl Campbell Paul Wilkes tech 79 now
feel cliff h all right here we go for
ESET nod32 antivirus for our winners are
Louie Gustavo veni congratulations and
for malwarebytes anti-malware right on
license Alice congratulations we've got
alkalines com we've got that level 10 m
mouse we've got the earbuds and the
printer from Brother Canada for the eco
alkalines batteries cliff hg pop seven
Chris Reich and RD Blair congratulations
for the talk buds we've got lots of them
to give away Jeffster I means it guest
Harry Paul Wilkes text 79 and Carl
Campbell congratulations everybody
alright for that level 10 m gaming mouse
from thermaltake USA com it is Mickey
Biggs congratulations biggie days
to date this is the new business smart
line from Brother Canada and our winner
for the grand prize is
Troy 74 nice congratulations Troy 74
Hector congratulations to all of our
winners tonight thank you for
participating in our annual Christmas
and New Year's giveaway merry Christmas
to you happy new year all you have to do
to claim your prize is pop us a quick
email live at category five dot TV now
those of you who won an intangible which
is a product that can be emailed to you
you will receive that by email now those
of you who had receive one an actual
tangible item that needs to be shipped
to you all you have to do is just send
us your shipping information so that
includes your phone number your your
real name and your shipping address and
we're gonna get those out to you this
week thank you everybody for for
participating congratulations those of
you who who picked up a prize this year
and of course we've got lots of great
prizes for you throughout 2013 make sure
you tune in to the show here at category
five dot TV guest Harry joining us in
the chat room g pop 7 as well
congratulations everybody i means it hey
yeah and yes guess Harry you finally won
something hooting and hollering in the
chat room congratulate yes how cool is
that I was a lot on that was intense i
was like i was getting nervous the names
are just coming out of so quick and we
can't read them that quickly it's yeah
congratulations everybody yeah get your
late christmas gifts from us yeah you
know yeah all right thank you everybody
lots of chat going on in the chat room
there we're back on a regular schedule
starting next week and crystal wells
will be here joining me in the studio
next week of course we've got some
exciting stuff we're going to be dealing
with we're going to be looking at how to
actually create mockups for application
development whether that be programs
that you're going to be creating or in
our case we're going to be using it as a
way to mock up websites as well for for
client user for anything that you want
to create we're going to be able to
create a really good professional mock
up very very quickly and very very
easily so you don't want to miss that
that's happening next week on the show
being the next week is going to be a
regular show though we're going to be
to a kind of a regular schedule and our
regular time clock as far as what we
what we are able to do within the hour
we would love to receive your viewer
questions yes all you have to do is pop
us an email live at category five dot TV
also though we mentioned earlier in the
show we love to receive your postcards
just rewind it back a little bit and get
our address there or you can find it on
the bottom of our website category 5 TV
we say postcard but it can really be
anything no we love receiving local
little little things trinkets and things
from a little know all the came to us
from Bulgaria which actually had perfume
in it as well as a perfume holder
whereas fortunately it was perfume
because we didn't know what it was going
to be when we opened it up so thanks for
keeping it clean so what are you doing
matter like what's what's your big plans
for 2013 well my big plans is to still
game because in in our aim game oh yeah
oh it's still gaming I'm game yeah
gaming more because now I met some
friends is that this is what she's doing
this is the the awesome oh this is what
I'm doing pretty good for 2013 I on
playing video games doing since what I'm
doing so I was like six that's and I'm
looking forward to skiing this year
because i'll i'll be coming back and
teaching more adults and but yeah and
it'll be great cuz i'll have like and my
own programs and looks fun and my
younger sister is now on the hills she
just became an instructor muqdad nervous
yeah both of us out there you know
educating everyone on how to go 90
kilometers an hour safety safety first
safety first it's awesome and looking
forward to school now that the hardest
bit quite over got you know settled into
a lot of things
yeah things are going to quiet down and
I'll be a lot more focused during the
week with yeah i'll be taking a lot of
marketing classes and more marketing
focus now great so where does this is a
semester where does it is that what they
call it yeah every semester where does
this semester leave you for tuesday
nights like are we gonna be able to see
you a little bit more often there I
don't actually i get tuesdays off hey
and that worked out perfectly good it
does feel like it's too long in between
it does so like yeah now i can just you
know get back here for tuesday and then
go back wednesday very good very good
chat room so good to see ya yes it's
been good yeah i love seeing the chat
room chatting away and i'm sorry if we
missed any questions or comments or
anything just we will look over the chat
logs on our website category five dot TV
we always post the IRC logs the chat
logs there just visit the show notes
page for each episode and on that page
you actually find all the links for
everything that was talked about within
the episode that has a relevant link and
all that kind of cool stuff no just
something Judd said it's like we all
kind of did when we made it through the
end of the world here we are we survived
the apocalypse folks yeah like that many
people actually prepared for that did
you ever see those commercials no I did
see though that they were creating like
bomb shelter like hmm buildings yeah and
people were making their own shelters
and and stocking up like I actually saw
the show and they the husband was mad at
his wife because she would take books
cut open the books would never do that
and and put food she would stalk food
and then like underneath chairs anything
should be stalking food where and yeah
I'm just getting ready for any kind of
big poppa like the disaster and their
work invasion hail
hey I'm ready we've got food in books
people and I got food everywhere and
she's like yeah I got at least like 1700
items hidden around this house it's like
hey Lionel can you pass me one of those
Star Trek novels I want some beef jerky
save me that would be like all my
groceries out just be like going through
it all like it's try to skype scrounge
up to bits and bytes and might I could
see bits and bytes books so that as a
reading you can nibble on them that I
can understand gee pop 7 is asking the
chat room where do I send this info to
so i can claim my amazing prize it is
live at category five dot TV ok so those
of you who won live at category 5 TV
send us all that do you find that oh I
know if only they could see you try to
shred our Star Trek novel collection we
can't do because i strategically turned
off the shredder before 2013 i know i
was ready for for it focus been so
wonderful having you here Erica it's
always a pleasure having you here nice
to see you again yes it's nice to see
you and be safe on the slope saying i'll
be taking a week and a half off mending
my toe i got launched out of my skis
we'll do it my legit on the slopes yeah
yeah it's ok that's not the worst Oh in
the summer i did chop off my finger a
bit it's kind of like now's this way
when I was a prep cook over the summer
the knife yeah but it didn't happen all
summer I cut food for people grossed out
right now oh really squeamish why like
it's ISA screams I'm a geek too but it
happens if you're ditching but yeah I
chopped food for everyone all summer and
using knives like I got it down crudité
through today every day and we call it
that anger day and finger to know that
was when I made it for my family and I
came home look at what I can do guys
look at what i learned exactly exactly
minutes in those all day a good one dad
was real proud at that moment he that
you hit the cop just like another
hospital visit cuz they know me the next
day she started universe yeah everyone
called me gauze first day yeah now my
nickname and then now they're gonna see
my toe be careful all right couch guy
careful we want you back right everybody
have a fantastic wonderful week and
again I'll be back next week with
crystal wells and we'll talk to you that
take care can I will be back soon all
right
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on to me
or through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area a category 5 TV
and find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chat where
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
