welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 432 for tuesday the 29th
of december 2015 the last tuesday of the
year welcome to the show I've got Kelsey
Jensen here I decided to pay us a visit
over there on the news desk we've got
the one and only Sasha dura mater we've
got Adam oppan camera I assure you he's
there I don't know if you can like give
a thumbs up and their areas yeah proof
I'm Robbie Ferguson your host i'm kelsey
johnson your co-host I said that yeah
London yeah it's redundant information
okay we've got some fun stuff we didn't
want to tell us about our feature diet
yes today we are celebrating the 20
years of the GNU image manipulation
program by continuing our 20 weeks of
GIMP tips series tonight we're gonna
learn how to remove simple undesirable
elements from a photo today's case a
stop sign using the free Kip software
nice I am oh I just realized yes how
funny that is only because if you took a
picture and then manipulated the stop
sign away from it you might be only get
yourself out of a ticket or imagine
regulation she goes right to illegal oh
well now that we know that you can
download videos let's get all the movies
all right okay we've also got you for
your questions tonight we've been
receiving them we appreciate you sending
those in for live a category 5 TV we're
going to dive into the mailbag also get
in the chat room kelsey is gonna be
doing her best to keep up their its
category 5 on freenode and we're going
to do the best that we can to get your
questions on the air sasha door made us
live here in the studio on a Tuesday
night how did we do that I know thank
goodness I love holidays I know the kind
of
closes a couple of weeks a year so I
think March Break I can be here as well
there you go so here I am and here's
what's coming up in the category 5 TV
news room Elon Musk says he now knows
when the safe fully autonomous self
driving car will arrive an analysis of
North Korea's computer system reveals
spy files a Ukrainian startup says that
they've solved long-range wireless
charging with their new technology which
is loosely based on how the old crystal
radios works a mysterious collector has
opened the world's largest private Apple
exhibition in Prague US prisoners have
been getting out of jail early thanks to
a software bug that's been in place for
13 years and a botnet attack powered by
a vulnerability in aspera modems is
hitting WordPress websites stick around
the whole details are coming up later in
the show this is category 5 technology
TV
starring Sasha dramatis
Hillary rumble
and your host Robbie Ferguson
welcome to the show this is category 5
technology TV I'm Robbie Ferguson mr.
Johnson Kelsey how you been I've been
pretty good been a while yes you've been
off at school yes sir the getting it is
making a call as they call it in Canada
what no that's French isn't it sure
point in case when a not all friends and
we're not all in igloos let me kind of
feel like it today ya feel like it it
was a green Christmas and suddenly
pretty much like it on a competent Hobbs
how school going schools going pretty
good I passed all my classes this
semester see so you're done no I have
seven more semesters I tried folks sorry
about that and Sasha dramatis how are
things going for you things are going
great yeah yeah I actually really liked
the snow cuz i have my Fitbit right so
give me an awesome does it measure does
it measure shovels yes it works with
that yes how many shovels today um she
actually to 565 so you must have just a
small Canadian driveway then yes yeah I
hope everybody had a great Christmas
nice to see thanks for joining us and
get into our chat room okay its category
5 on freenode if you get the chance or
you can go right through a website
category five dot TV and you'll see the
interact menu there uh here's a youtube
comment that came in based on last
week's episode episode number 431 let's
bring her up on the screen here this
came to us from robert putnam who says
not all drones must be registered this
of course in reference to the FAA and
the new rules about having to register
drones after last Tuesday right but good
information here from Robert who says
not all drones must be registered only
those 250 grams most small quadcopters
are under that limit see the FAA page
for details so I did I checked it out in
the faq at faa gov we read do you want
to take it sure all right unmanned
aircraft weighing less than 55 pounds
and more than point five five pounds 250
grams on takeoff include everything that
is on board or otherwise
to the aircraft and operated outdoors in
the National Airspace System must
register the aircraft may register under
the new web-based registration system
all that technobabble to say yeah if
it's over 55 there if it's under 55
pounds if it's over 250 5 250 grams so
many numbers so i brought the scale to
answer the question how much does how
much does a teenager own way yeah any
idea there is so light take a guess um
14 grams 14 grams what do you think else
uh we'll go with one you got one here
you can cheat I don't know well i'm
gonna go with like 30 grams maybe 30
grams 14 i don't know 14 to 30 ok let's
let's take a look we got our Taylor
scale here do the overhead cam teeny
drone and 12 grams on the button oh oh
sasho rooms it's like what's the prize
do I win a teeny drone did I'll just fly
one over to you ok can you fly it into
my hands could I can you would that be
would that be ridiculous can you do it
ok I trust you I know please don't fly
in my face yeah well kelsey is the one
that's kind of in between us here all
right I got ok whoa whoa whoa and I have
to change to your camera ok no come here
I have no depth perception score no it's
not how would you love to have one of
these teeny drones oh you got it right
there for me I can actually take off
weight should I turn it around or older
do you need I can fly in any direction
ooh what so ever hit me in the face ok
I'll try not to behind the server it's
ok because Tina drones are pretty
durable I can't even see ya they're very
durable they're very durable Dave got
one for christmas this year yes he loves
it he's learned how to flip um bye Joe
Dave he also flew it outside it's safe
it's just right on top of that box there
I'm not worried I'm not worried so much
about it being safe I really like to
play with it okay okay so he brought it
outside to show his aunt and uncle and
blew it over a house and then look over
a house with any lost sight of it new
crashed oh right does he realize this is
only 12 grams obviously not well so you
know what the lighter it is I think that
that's what makes it so durable right so
it's not like a huge mass coming down to
the ground oh sure yeah maybe that's it
is so lightweight you notice how even
after crap oh you want to catch it yeah
even after crashing I I can still fly it
and still hovers just fine and no
problems whoa the furnace is on so you
see me kind of going all over the place
hey if you like that was her fault if
you'd like to learn how to fly one of
these things we've got the drone zone
dot TV and we've got an episode up there
that teaches you how to fly a teeny
drone to store any quadcopter for that
matter if you got one for christmas just
don't drop it into my water this is how
it's done or ready ready yeah like I'm
saying they close to my face and I was
terrified I want to give away two of
these and the way to do that in order to
qualify to win too teeny drones all
through yourself or you can share it if
you're very very generous get on over to
patreon com category 5 it's a really
cool way to support category 5 TV
network and we've got two of these to
give away to the same individual the
first 100 people who support us with as
little as 25 cents per episode so that's
less than a single cup of coffee a month
you're going to be eligible to win not
one but two teeny drones that is an
incredible offer for a couple of reasons
and one because teeny drones were so
popular over Christmas you can't buy
them right now yeah they're trying to
get me into them right now we'll just
say they flew off the shelves but osh a
dent down
you think that I've been waiting to use
that but I actually use it almost every
day every conversation really not
surprised I know not they're really cool
though they're really fun and what I
love about Tina drones is as you you can
start here they're durable as we say and
grow and learn how to fly as you get
better then you can get a little bit
more expensive one and you can step it
up and step it up so you're not going
right to the expensive one and then
crashing it and ruining it you're
actually getting good at flying first on
something that is more durable cheaper
and much less likely to to fail if you
crash it right you can just pick it up
and go again yes good way to learn super
tiny check out the drone zone TV as well
that's another program that you're going
to be supporting by participating in
patreon because all of our shows are
part of the category 5 TV network really
really fun cool way to support category
5 TV category 5 technology TV and Kelsey
we've had a lot of people who did some
of the Christmas shopping online using
our partner links which you'll find
under support us at category 5 TV wanted
to say thank you to those of you who
have used those links over the holidays
and and even with your gift cards this
week I've noticed people going that
route going to Amazon for example or
ebay newegg Canada going through there
to purchase some stuff and that really
really helps support category 5
technology TV and we're partnered with a
whole bunch of cool companies and lots
of different regions amazon for example
it's like dot co uk comc a.j.p IT
everywhere kind of everywhere amazon is
almost we're affiliated with them so
thank you everybody for your support and
of course category 5 TV is a member of
the tech podcast network if it's tech
it's here category 5 TV / tpn and the
international association of internet
broadcasters category 5 TV / IA ib we
ready to get into it heck yeah 20 weeks
of gimp tips are thanks to 20 years of
the GNU image manipulation program you
can get it absolutely free at gimp.org
gim p and i have define the GIMP if i
could define GIMP GNU image manipulation
program it's a Photoshop alternative
that is free it's it's got a large suite
of features and for for all intents and
purposes it's a great alternative I
actually I've used it quite a bit and I
really enjoy camp I love it when I do
get the chance to use it it's just
perfect are you ready to learn along
with us it's week six of our GIMP tips
and if you follow along with these 20
weeks of GIMP tips you're going to get a
lot of useful information to help get
your feet wet and learn some of the some
of the basics of how to use GNU image
manipulation program but also get into
some of the more advanced stuff tonight
we're starting with something that seems
fairly advanced and it really is but
we're doing we're starting with
something that's simple in the spectrum
right of this particular type of
manipulation which is to remove objects
from a photograph stuff that's in the
photo that you don't want to be there
because it otherwise would be a perfect
photograph photograph but ah there
happens to be a piece of litter on the
ground or in our case today a stop sign
in the frame and we really don't want it
there because it really pulls away from
the kind of the the nature of the
photograph and when you get more
advanced if you have an ex-boyfriend or
girlfriend delete remove them from all
your pictures there you have it that's a
part of the series soon but I thought
we'd start with something a little more
basic like a you know a stop sign and
then we'll get into living people hands
faces etc so yes we will cover that
further in the series so I had this
photograph sent to me of a horse farm
let's bring it up and this photo I'm
gonna bring it up in GNU image
manipulation program they said this is a
wonderful photograph of the horse farm
but figures as beautiful as it is on
this country road there's this old rusty
stop sign and if we could only get rid
of that stop sign it would be a really
really pretty photograph
so let's do it we're going to use one
tool here today and when you learn how
to do this you can literally have make
this effect in seconds and you've heard
me say that but through the course of
the series and through the this tonight
we're going to show you exactly how it's
done and explain it every step of the
way so it takes us a little bit longer
but as you get good at it you'll be able
to do these these effects and these
features use these features of the GIMP
very very quickly the tool we're looking
at tonight is called the clone tool and
it looks like a little stamp right there
and don't mistake that for the healing
tool we're going to or the prospective
clone tool or the healing tool we're
going to look at those tools in the
future but today we're looking at the
sim simply the clone tool and it looks
like that stamp so looking at our
photograph here let's get in here I'm
going to zoom in by pressing Shift + + +
that lets me move around that lets me
zoom in on the picture and then I can
use my mouse wheel up and down takes me
up and down the image if I hold in the
left shift key on my keyboard up and
down now goes right for down and left
for up so I can move all around the
image just by that single finger on the
keyboard up and down on my mouse wheel
that's useful information yeah so now
with this clone stamp tool okay what I
can do you see that I have a marquee
kind of circle on my mouse that's the
size of my stamp I can change that with
the size down here and that's going to
change the size of the the actual stamp
surface so you see as I make that bigger
now I've made it so big it's it's
ginormous there it is see how huge that
is bring it down even further that's
quite huge hope you can see that at home
so I'm going to go with this particular
image it looked like well 20 didn't look
so bad now that actually looks pretty
big let's go with let's try 10 we wanted
to do 800 I'm highlighting and then
typing 10 so now my stamp is about that
sighs okay so what we're going to do
with this tool kalsi is we're going to
actually find something that we can
sample that would be similar to what
would be there if the stop sign wasn't
because we have to think along the terms
of okay the stop sign is is obscuring
whatever's behind it so I know that
there's trees behind it I know that in
the distance there are trees and there's
a bit of a road there but how do i
regenerate that information that doesn't
exist because it's blocked by the the
stop sign right so I find somewhere else
in the image which I think kind of
represents what might be behind it so to
demonstrate that let's pull in here i'm
going to hold in the left ctrl key on my
keyboard and let's click on this this
area down here so I've just single
clicked while holding left ctrl and now
i have set notice that it stays there i
have set a control point for my stamp so
now if i go over to this pole and I
start painting it's actually sampling
from the right hand side one and
basically pasting with a bit of a soft
edge on on top of the pole for the stop
sign so now what's happening I you can
see that the the one on the right there
is just about to hit the road so if I
were to go up a little bit further
what's going to happen is it's going to
start to clone the road into this scene
see that yeah and that is not
appropriate that there wouldn't be any
road at this particular point so that
shouldn't be there so then I want to
reselect another area and grab some more
and paint it on and make it look as
smooth as possible and kind of paint to
the edge of the road so now I've got the
pole ends at the road so now we need
that seamless transition between where
the road and the the edge of the grass
or the this ground and so I'm going to
select my clone stamp tool here so that
I'm right on the edge of where the road
meets the grass and then I move up this
way so then I'm able to create that same
kind of gradient now grab the road
clicking the control key and
then my mouse and I can start painting
in part of the sign here and you'll see
that it's sampling everything including
shadows and everything so now I have
this bit of a dark line because it
copied shadows so I can control click
here and get rid of some of that won't
work right there but I can go here and
make the shadows kind of line up so that
it's a little more realistic grab that
kind of colorization there and try to
make it look as real as you can and it's
it's really quite simple now here we've
got a shadow and so the shadow we need
to control click and bring that over top
of this here so that we've got that
seamless that's what would have been
behind okay so now you can see if we
zoom out we're starting to lose that
sign all together let's grab this area
down here same tool grab some of the
leaves and kind of roughly paint over
top so it has that rough edge cover up
some of the stuff that looks repetitive
you want to avoid that kind of repeating
and make it look random so it does look
like leaves sitting on the ground there
we go and now the hardest one is
probably going to be this stop sign
floating in mid-air because how do we
recreate trees now so now we've got to
get creative we've got to imagine what
would be behind it again we're going to
use this trick of grabbing the edge
where the road meets the the grass and
I'm going to drag up and I'm going to
drag up click and drag click and drag
and I may have to do that a couple times
then grab some of the road and fill it
in there so then we've got a fairly good
transition between road and grass okay
so now we need trees so I'm going to
click on the bottom of a stump of a tree
I've picked one over here and let's just
start actually kind of painting trees
making making believe that there are
trees here it's a happy little Bush okay
so see what I'm actually doing I'm
sampling from the right there and
painting in here with the same trees
that are on the right but I'm doing it
in such a way because i'm using kind of
up and down and
around I'm getting those I'm getting not
just the the tree leaves but also the
the the bottom part the trunk of the
trees and I can create a couple extra
trees there if I wanted to see that and
then paint it in get these nice fall
colors let's get this one here there's
some shadows okay and then a little more
painting notice it's getting a little
bit of gray there that's because it's
touching the the area of it that had the
the gray before from the sign now I want
to have a tree stump leading up to this
tree here so notice how i can just paint
one on so I've control clicked over here
grabbed a tree stump and I'm going to
use that as my as the recall it the tree
trunk yeah there we go okay so I've got
a little bit of a fuzzy edge right here
I want to just kind of fill that in and
just again randomizing making it so that
we don't have the redundancy and it
looks like we've got some texture there
so now as i zoom out there you have it
we've got this beautiful picture there's
no sign of a sign I think he'd be
hard-pressed to ever notice that there
was ever a sign there yeah it would take
it would take looks really good like
like Sherlock has had to be kind of you
have put on like with a magnifying glass
take a while well the clone tool is
taking those leave tech the leaf leaf
texture from the trees beside it or
wherever I've selected and placing it in
a kind of a like I say a feathered edge
right over top of wherever I paint so
it's in all essence is kind of
recreating leaves on the trees so that's
all there is to it folks and that's how
great it looks that's how it turns out
and as you could tell it didn't really
take a long time even with us explaining
we've got this now a beautiful image
where there is no stop sign that is the
GNU image manipulation program tonight
we were looking at the clone tool and
through the course of this series which
is 20 weeks of gay
tips we're going to be showing you all
kinds of cool things that you can do
with the free GNU image manipulation
program you can download that for
Windows Linux or Mac at gimp.org cool
stuff yeah hope you've been enjoying the
series love teaching us some of this
stuff and I know the reaction so far has
been great too you know the the stuff
that we're teaching you with the GIMP if
you have any ideas or suggestions things
that you'd like us to teach you then you
know are things that you hey how do I do
this or maybe you know how to do
something in Photoshop and aren't quite
sure how to do it in the GNU image
manipulation program we'd be happy to do
those things as well there's nothing
wrong with having a tree as a friend how
did I become the movie trailer guy
that's in the chatter thanks g WG
alright folks well Sasha der made us how
are you over there I am great I'm
excited it's these time I know can you
believe now Sasha you're you're off
because of holidays this week so we're
between Christmas and New Year here and
so we've got a couple of we've got
bookends of long weekends which is a
beautiful thing it'sit's kind of the
best way it could possibly fall wait for
holidays so you kind of know right cuz
you're you're here from school I feel
like I need to explain like how awesome
my typical work schedule is except for
the fact that i missed tuesday nights i
get a four day workweek 40 hours in four
days so i get a three-day weekend every
weekend so that's kind of amazing now
I'm no mathematician but you're talking
10 hours a day well no you know what you
do a 12-hour day another 12 exactly
that's not exactly how ways on Tuesdays
and it's the reason why I'm not here i
work from six thirty in the morning
until nine at night but then on on
wednesdays i do a four hour work day
okay so i get to sleep I get to sleep in
on Wednesday right so sometimes the
clinic closes for the whole week it
never closes for just a Tuesday
or early on a Tuesday were unfortunate
so worked out for for us and for our
viewers this week Kelsey could be here
being off from school Sasha could be
here being I'm here every week this so
get used to it this just makes my heart
so happy like not only am i back with
Kelsey's here as here like old times
guys ya feel the old gang is back
together like we need to like do some
due up and the chat room most of whom
are in the UK are up like past midnight
yeah hang out with me which is also
awesome yeah yeah that's true ok it's
Tuesday December 29 2015 and here are
the stories were covering this week Elon
Musk says he now knows when the safe
fully autonomous self driving car will
arrive an analysis of North Korea's
computer system has revealed an
underlying spy architecture to both
monitor and manipulate files a Ukrainian
startup says that they've solved
long-range wireless charging with their
new technology which is loosely based on
how the old crystal radio works a
mysterious collector has opened the
world's largest private Apple exhibition
in Prague US prisoners have been getting
out of jail early thanks to a software
bug that's been in place for 13 years
and a botnet attack powered by a
vulnerability and athira modems is
hidden WordPress websites these stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / linda
I'm sashes are made us in here are the
top stories from the category 5 TV
newsroom a variety of automakers have
begun selling semi autonomous vehicles
but you'll have to wait probably five
years to buy a fully autonomous one the
kind that you can that can drive you
anywhere while you read a book behind
the wheel at least that's what many car
companies are predicting Tesla Motors
CEO Elon Musk on the other hand believes
his company's fully autonomous cars will
arrive in just a few years regulations
allowing them on the road could take
between 125 years depending on your
jurisdictions he predicts that's yet
another notch down in Musk's ever
shortening timeline in September he told
Danish new site boursin that he expects
the company to have self-driving
vehicles ready in three years and one
year before that the company released a
statement projecting that the technology
would be completed in five or six years
this is awesome for him MUSC might not
be incorrect in october his company
began became the first automaker to sell
semi autonomous vehicles commercially
but his competitors are being more
conservative in their predictions Ford
CEO mark fields told forbes in june that
he expects someone to make fully
autonomous cars ready for consumer
purchase within the next five years but
declined to say that Ford would hit that
deadline Japan's Nissan has pegged 2020
as the year it hopes to release the
self-driving cars to the masses as has
Toyota Audia has estimated it would be
ready to turn out fully autonomous
vehicles by 2025 google has been testing
semi-autonomous and fully autonomous
vehicles for years and it hopes to begin
selling fully autonomous vehicles in two
to five years perhaps in partnership
with Ford it's possible that the exact
dates are erupt irrelevant car companies
must do more than simply build the
technology behind the fully autonomous
driving they also need to work with
governments to set regulations and
figure out how to get the vehicles into
consumers garages
even if Tesla releases the perfect
self-driving car before its competitors
do that doesn't mean the vehicles will
outsell others the self-driving car may
might be closer than it appears but its
popularization remains distant and I
agree I don't know that I would be
comfortable would you Robbie my question
for you is like would you ride in an
autonomous car foliot on I would be
freaking out a little bit I wouldn't
want it to drive itself in the winter
does your mom like grab at the steering
wheel while you're driving not anymore
no he's gotten past that yes I would not
want to drive in my own owned autonomous
car I wouldn't want to own a piece of
technology that's that expensive and
also that potentially dangerous however
I would like somebody else to own it and
I'd love to ride around in it you know I
don't I wouldn't want to how much does a
car costs like how much was one of those
1 billion dollars a hundred and twenty
thousand dollars yeah I don't know how
much they're gonna cost but yeah I don't
know that the timing is relevant it as
you say but it seems this is the
progression of things my other Johnny
cab is coming my other concern yeah
there's an episode of Doctor Who on a
while ago I know with so obviously
you're about to say weeping angels no
I'm not there was an episode was David
Tennant we're basically these cars are
trying to take over the world by driving
people into lakes okay that's one of the
things that I'm scared but I'm just
gonna drive right off the road Italy
something I'm not so afraid of an
autonomous car I'm afraid of my
autonomous car trying to murder me yes
right okay I can see them being more I
mean if Isaac Asimov's rules apply to
the autonomous car then would it be
safer than a gemman driven vehicle yes I
trust an autonomous car more than I I
trust the majority of drivers out there
like there are some good drivers there
are so many bad drivers couple things I
mean I'm driving down the highway
Christmas
night and there are people driving
without their headlights on and its
pitch black out right and things like
that like driver error that is stupid
right and no accidental I'm sure yeah
well that's the thing I so I wouldn't
want to own a car that's safer than all
the rest of the cars and then have
somebody else hit it right but would it
have better defensive driving
capabilities because it's smart so to
speak and I can see everything at all
times I can't see necessarily in my
blind spots if somebody's doing
something crazy or swerving or something
but an autonomous car can but then what
can I do I mean you're in the confines
of your own lane i'm thinking the
bathroom would white comes in Mad Max
isn't that next robots are going to take
over the world I know it drive into the
lake so in like my perfect world
there'll be a new taxi service of
autonomous cars and I won't have to buy
the car but I'll be able to benefit from
the technology we know it's coming very
well Johnny cab driving cars that's that
is an interesting thing and what r eal
on Musk's opinions of uber what does he
like it is he like I'm just putting that
out there hmm okay like musk what are
your opinions on uber I think we know
Ellis I think we know def first in other
news the first in-depth analysis of
North Korea's internal computer
operating system has revealed spying
tools capable of tracking documents
offline red star OS was designed to
superficially mimic Apple's OS X but
hidden features allow it to watermark
files and tie them to an individual the
covert tools were discovered by two
German researchers who conducted the
analysis over the past month they
presented their findings at the Kaos
communications Congress on Sunday the
researchers pour it over the code of red
star OS virgin version 3.0 which first
surfaced online about a year ago the
systems coders did a pretty good job of
mimicking the basic design and
functionality of
Apple computers but with a twist any
files uploaded to the system via a USB
stick or other storage device can be
water marked allowing the state to trace
the journey of that file from machine to
machine redstar can also identify
undesirable files and delete them
without permission red star was built
using Linux a free and open source
platform which can be modified at will
and was designed that way to make it as
accessible as possible there is an
inherent irony in North Korea's use of
the system says one of its researchers
they are using a system that was built
to promote free speech and they're
abusing it by watermarking free speech
hmm so kind of sad Linux news I would
say it's a hard thing I mean I know it's
North Korea and so you know there's
fears there about some some things and
spying on users and things like that but
it would seem kind of normal to me that
a government would have access to that
kind of data internally a company would
have endpoint protection of some sort to
be able to make sure that there are not
data leaks taking place and that's one
of the things that are almost a well
it's a problem there was a hard drive
full of Social Insurance numbers and all
this stuff at a Canadian government
office just sitting there an external
hard drive so if they if we had all of
our actual like secure information
watermarks then the government would be
able to trace who stole it if it got
stolen or prevent it from being stolen
by knowing where it is at any given time
and prevent it from so for example using
endpoint protection software or hardware
appliance on a network if if Kelsey went
rogue which is destined to happen and
started going into my customer database
and emailing credit card information to
herself at home so that she could then
take over their accounts or something or
whatever it may be data leakage happens
data theft happens all the time
use an example of the government office
where this physical hard drive was
actually physically taken and now all
that information about people's i think
it was school loans was was revealed to
the public so being able to think of
watermarking is being able to track
right individual files and find out
where they've gone and where they
started even so regardless of who's
responsible be at North Korea or or a
government office in Canada it's a tough
call because security measures have to
be put in place I guess it depends on
the motivation I you know what I would
say I bet you it was the fact that
nobody knew that the information was
water marked but if you said like if the
government said all of the information
on our servers will be watermarked we
will be able to trace anything always
and this is an operating system right
redstar OS being distributed to citizens
of North Korea and saying here this is
the operating system of choice and this
is free and so on right not of choice so
pretty sure they don't get a choice well
we're not getting all political let's
just throw a little comparison out there
how many of us have seen the little
pop-up that says windows 10 is available
for your system absolutely free mm-hmm
and if you read on in the terms of use
what does it say about the ability for
them to be able to transfer your right
your data how is it any not to make a
comparison to North Korea between
Microsoft okay okay but perhaps media
kind of skews things in such a way that
we start to finger point and say hey
they're doing something bad well really
it's happening under our own right as
well I'm picking up what you're laying
down or reading your mail if you will
hey all right wireless chargers using
standards like Chi which is spelt Qi
which is a Chinese word for natural
energy have been on the market for a
while ikea even includes them in some of
its furniture these days so these are
the the furniture pieces there you just
put your phone on top see the travelers
yeah
yeah but if you think about it there's
not much difference between a wired and
wireless charging of this kind after all
the charger still needs to be plugged
into a wall socket and you still need to
leave your phone in the designated place
to charge what would be a significant
improvement however is charging a
smartphone just by hanging around in the
same room as a wireless charger so Z a
Ukrainian start up working in a semi
stealth mode since 2014 claims to have
found a safe and reliable way to
transfer electricity to a device up to
five meters or 16 feet away awesome the
commercial version of the technology
will consist of a base charging station
of about 15 x 15 x 40 centimeters and a
3 millimeter thick smartphone case the
current version isn't as compact is it
will become the antenna and a buffer
battery sit in a 3d printed cradle while
the transmitter is contained in a large
black box it can take up to 20 seconds
for the charging to start after the
transmitter is powered on that's the
time needed for the buffer battery to
build up a head of steam the project
began as a curious thought in the brain
of startups founder Ivan Cuba could a
smartphone be powered like an old
crystal radio the idea of a crystal
radio is simple with just a coil of
copper wire antenna capacitor and
crystal detector and high impedance
earphones impedance earphones and no
additional power you can listen to some
radio stations although the sound level
is very weak what Z claims to have done
is build an efficient combination of a
transmitter and receiver so that the
power passed along could be used to
charge the buffer battery these team of
eight people based in Ukraine Poland and
the UK have spent more than a year
looking for the most efficient
configuration for such a system the main
breakthrough we've achieved is the
antenna Chuba said on our working
frequency which is in the SW band you'll
normally need a large antenna to receive
the signal and pass to the converter
we have built an antenna capable of
doing this that can be housed in an
iphone 6 or 6 s case the team is
currently working on a new prototype so
that it can take to the Assad Europe
conference in dublin in january from
there the prototype will be sent to a
certification center in the UK in order
to receive the necessary documents to
start mass production that's close
that's soon already there initially Z
will offer cases for iphone 6 and 6s but
in the future the startup plans to widen
the range the idea is to license the
technology to establish case vendors
this is great this is the sort of news
story where I can picture you could go
on to a plane and by the time you land
everybody's phone would be charged yeah
I love that I love that their licensing
the technology rather than trying to be
the end-all be-all by our case so if
they say okay Samsung if you would like
to implement this technology and hey
let's also implement transmitters at
every railway station and bus stop and
everywhere else but I was even yeah so I
was thinking earlier when I was reading
the stories that if they had the ability
to modify pacemakers and you know little
things that need constant like you're
better called hearing aid yeah right so
that you just automatically kind of get
juiced up anywhere you go my immediate
thought is okay for medical device like
a pacemaker or something that you know
my life is relying on this mm-hmm I
would be afraid to to implement that but
if it was a secondary measure or just a
charging mechanism so if I had you know
a full day's worth of battery in my
pacemaker and was able to charge it
wirelessly by entering my house right
should wake up sleep like a backup right
you think about people i mean not
actually powering the device right yeah
right so I mean there are tons of people
out there who are hard of hearing that
can't afford the batteries necessary for
their hearing aids
you can eat yeah yeah so if I had
something like that I mean if you went
to a public library and all of a sudden
you know you could hear again I like it
there are a lot of implementations I
mean we're looking at phones and and but
yeah thinking about other devices all
the uses of it or your teeny drone would
never die I like the way you think so
great you know how horrible it is that
like tiny little window where you have
to plug it in and not fly it while it
charges up again what is it is 5 meters
so that's I can go way further than 5
meters it's got like 80 feet distance
but but you can you practice why by
every now and then yeah and it charged
it as you go hey so great wonder how
long it would take to charge something
like to full capacity yeah like and
considering a shortwave band it's gonna
be a low power yeah little trickle
charging so it's it's almost a few hours
if you're constantly within this field
yes we assume is going to be safe
because that's the whole idea they're
getting a certified to prove that it's
safe and get it registers I like yeah
yeah and I'm sure lunch oh great new
technology but kill and yes yeah not the
cars the cars won't kill you okay
although the official apple store is yet
to come to the capital of the Czech
Republic the city has recently seen the
launch of the Apple Museum which claims
to host the largest private exhibition
of its kind house in three buildings in
Prague's Old Town the museum has an
extensive list of 472 exhibits on
display from nearly every Apple product
ever built to Steve Jobs's business
cards from his times at next and Pixar
entry to the museum costs 11 euros or
eight pounds with all proceeds donated
to charity purposes in addition to the
actual exhibition a raw vegan restaurant
called Stevens food will soon open up
serving foods that were probably enjoyed
by the apple co-founder
like apples that are both raw and vegan
the museum's website called Prague the
first city where you can see this unique
exhibition which could mean that the
collection might be on the move at some
point apple doesn't have an official
Museum of its own products although
there used to be one that Steve Jobs
closed soon after his return to the
company in 1997 so there you go an apple
museum not for apples of the tree
variety but for Steve Jobs apples Apple
very cool Let Go Go not want to go you
make the trek I don't like Apple very
much but I want to go it is kind of neat
from a nostalgia standpoint yeah and to
see that it came from here to here yeah
it's pretty amazing i want to go i would
go i'd go if I was in the neighborhood
go let's make it a category-five class
outing there you go nice alright more
than 3,200 US prisoners have been
released early because of a software
glitch whoops yep oopsie the bug
miscalculated the sentence reduction
prisoners in washington state had
received for good behavior it was
introduced in 2002 as part of an update
that followed a court ruling on applying
good behavior credits washington's
governor jay Inslee said at a press
conference that this problem was allowed
to continue for 13 years is deeply
disappointing to me totally unacceptable
and frankly maddening state officials
said that many released prisoners would
have to return to jail to finish their
sentences on average prisoners got out
49 days early but one prisoner had his
sentence cut by 600 days good for him
there's good behavior anyhow but I mean
these are criminals but the bug was
detected but not fixed in 2012 an update
that applies the correct formula for
calculating sentence cuts is due to be
in place by January to seventh until
then the District of Columbia has been
ordered not to release any prisoners
without checking manually the
they should be released I have a little
bit of a problem with people having to
go back to prison to complete their
sentences this is hurt if it's 447 to
600 days did you imagine it like if this
was really somebody who was on good
behavior like somebody's yeah like I've
changed now you know whatever it may be
and go home to their kids or something
and the joy and the and then being
pulled back again because of an error
right there's a couple of things there's
not very much space in the prison system
in yeah in Washington I assume the most
most states and secondly there's going
to be so many people fighting this that
it's just gonna be a legal nightmare to
try to get them to go back to jail for a
problem that's not their doing yeah they
didn't create this I don't know I'll
defend you I'm not I'm no lawyer but
i'll defend i'll get you off i just hope
that the guy that was out 600 days early
is a nice person oh yeah well that's
true but I mean they say I mean once you
serve your time that's it right you are
reintroduced into the community after
paying your penance right how about you
shouldn't have to go back unless you do
something bad behavior that is call
that's a real tough call like a racing
the stop signs out of pictures or
something it's only illegal if you do it
to get out of tickets that's true that's
what we learned tonight a botnet has
been identified that is targeting
WordPress websites with a password
guessing attack in February of this year
a security researcher at void sac
noticed a brute force attack on his
personal wordpress site and he noticed a
pattern in the IP addresses attacking
his site they were mostly Italian
Internet service providers what he
discovered is that the IP is attacking a
site were all devices they were all
athira modem or router a sweet athira
modem routers to be exact by doing some
further sleuthing he discovered that all
the athira devices involved in the
attack were using default login
credentials the modems had been had
obviously been hacked and the attacker
had gained
access through the default login they
had then installed malware on the modems
that launched a brute force password
guessing attack on WordPress sites the
etherion questions suffer from the from
various cross-site scripting
vulnerabilities among other issues to
protect your WordPress site make sure
you have a security tools such as word
fence monitoring and protecting your
login system if you use a modem which
might be suspect suspect make sure your
firmware is patched to the latest
version and that you have configured
strong login credentials on the modem I
know Robbie that we've done a show on
word fence and and so I know that you
can go back I don't remember what
episode it is but make sure if you're
using WordPress to it's it's kind of a
two-fold warning isn't it because you
get a modem from your internet service
provider and you just think oh it's safe
they say you know plug it in turn it on
oh look I've got internet so that's
great who would want to compromise me
well you're just a number it's like it's
like the olden days before you know
before we had the ability to go style
and stuff picking up a phone and
starting at you know one two three four
one two three five one two three six one
two threes to do solicitations and stuff
or governing for office would have
people sitting in a call center dialing
like that well similarly your IP address
is just a sequence of numbers that it
counts through and oh it found a router
that's susceptible so let's compromise
right this isn't even just a person
plugging things in person who made a
program that plugs it in like the he
probably or she guessing it's a he
because we're gender stereotyping
hackers story he or she wrote a program
and is probably you know sleeping
peacefully at night well all of this may
have this occurring so well and then
what does a botnet mean all of these
modems so let's say 10,000 modems all
together working to attack your modem at
home being used as part of a super
computer basically to
Jack websites and those websites are
gained anonymous just websites that
happen to be indexed by the search
engine and so they're able to find out
that hey this site runs WordPress and
now let's attack it mm-hmm so your
WordPress site all of a sudden becomes
vulnerable so yeah crazy anyhow big
thanks this week to roy w nash and our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us if you found a new story
you'd like to send email it to newsroom
at category 5 TV for all your tech news
with a slight linux bias visit the
category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm Sasha dramatis Baldrick the
brave in the chat room says those are
the ones we run in our office you are
susceptible it's probably you change it
part of the botnet you've been attacking
our WordPress blogs stop that upgrade
you add a password something safe this
is category 5 technology TV welcome to
the show I'm Robbie Ferguson I'm Kelsey
Jensen nice to see you let's get into
some viewer questions tonight viewer
questions are brought to you in part by
those who buy their fire alarms and
t-shirts and books and CDs in the movies
on Amazon thank you through our partner
links at category 5 TV click on support
us and you'll see all the different
partners that we have there including
Amazon we've had some really interesting
things being purchased there and we've
also got shortlist stores like
sammydress we can get some really cool
outfits including those ratchet belts
that I was looking cheap for super jeep
super jeep super great deal and a
portion of every sale goes to help
category five if you're into irish
things get on over to the irish store
and you can find them as one of our
partners as well at category five dot TV
for authentic irish merch from ireland
love Ireland not from China so you can
come Ireland you can get a kilt from
Ireland you could get a kilt from
ireland's gone why would you do that
because that's Scott sorry I don't think
they carry kilts but they do have some
lovely sweaters and
they do have some nice trinkets and
really cool stuff so you could say you
went to Ireland not really gone to
Ireland there you go that trinket that
you're brought back for me you ordered
it at the Irish store through category 5
to support us yes yes okay so on with
the questions our first question comes
from Dooley de volcán hey doing I have
recently reinstalled point Linux again
did the recommended updates earlier
earlier then after reboot was presented
with a login screen even though i have
it set up for auto log-in and when i put
in my password it goes blank like it is
going to boot and then I'm back to the
login screen unacceptable if I do ctrl
alt f1 I can log in with my name and
passwords isn't so that it hasn't so it
hasn't gotten that mixed up and neither
have I I use I use DD to reclone one SSD
I have with a completely fresh point
line X back to the other but again I'm
facing the worries of what to update and
what not to first of all it's very
important that we that we clarify as per
dennis kelly that apparently they do
wear kilts also in ireland but it was
fun to make fun of you all the same and
doing a quick google image searched they
would appear that there are irish kilts
thank you they're green not red that way
you can recognize them when they go to
battle ok oh thanks chat room ok well i
think of your video drivers I think that
something got mixed up in the update
process there Dooley so easiest thing to
do would be to switch to just like vesa
drivers vga straight out of the box easy
drivers or reinstall your your you say
you're able to login so go through the
steps bring it up on another you know if
you've got a laptop around bring up the
steps to installing your drivers for
your video card and correct that
situation what's happening is is you're
getting to the to the GUI to the point
where you can log in and then it tries
to kick in the video drivers and then it
CAC's out so guarantee that's most
likely what what it is give that a try
alright and let us know if it helped but
again switching
2like vesa or VGA mode for your drivers
it's different for each version I know
like it used to be like xorg.conf in the
ET c / x 11 with a capital X folder I'm
not sure if point Linux still use that
or not but you can check and just change
it from Nvidia or whatever you're using
a TI or whatever to vesa ve SI and see
if that works you can always change it
and ctrl alt f1 when he hits that that's
logging into a tty terminal so you
proves that you can log in and you can
make changes to the system so if that
doesn't fix it or if you break it
further you can still log in that way
you've got the terminal in front of you
the black screen and you can correct
things until you get it up and running
and then you hit ctrl alt f7 and try
again so that should do good luck let us
know yes our next question comes from
Jamie he wants he or she I'm not really
sure wants to know if it is possible to
pair something like an iphone with
multiple Bluetooth speakers at the same
time so music plays out of all of them
Jamie this is my good friend Jamie he ok
and wants to know okay so can you pair
your iphone with multiple speakers that
would be wonderful wouldn't it yeah have
you ever tried yeah you're gonna find
Jamie what happens when you when you
pair your device doesn't matter if it's
an iphone or whatever it is to a speaker
your phone you're going to actually
select which speaker to play out of so
if I have I am my house for example I've
got a sound bar on the TV it's got
bluetooth capability so it's nice
because we can fire up some music on the
phone and we don't have to listen to
music through the phone speaker we can
hear it on the sound bar and it sounds
pretty good then you go up to the
bedroom and you've got a docking station
with Bluetooth and and so on so I can
pair with both but I can't play through
both at the same time it's one or the
other and sometimes it will auto select
sometimes I have to actually select
which bluetooth device I want to play
through or if I've got my headset for
example now all of a sudden the
Bluetooth speaker stops working so some
speakers my sound bar for example will
allow
multiple devices to connect to it but my
phone doesn't have the capability to
connect at the same time to multiple
devices well why is that Bluetooth
typically as a technology it's a
wireless technology similar to Wi-Fi in
it's the technology that it uses it is
very slow so Bluetooth 2.1 is is very
slow like 2 megabits per second right so
that's why it can be you know if you're
transferring a file through bluetooth it
takes a long time so if you get into
Bluetooth three or four then all of a
sudden it's 26 megabits a second at its
absolute maximum at its best performance
but that's still not very fast so if I
have one stream going to my sound bar I
can't have another stream going
somewhere else because there's just not
enough bandwidth there so in walks Wi-Fi
which is up to I don't know 802 11 n is
I think 250 megabits per second
somewhere around there somebody's going
to correct me if I'm wrong so
substantially faster internet or
networking through y Wi-Fi and then even
more so through ethernet so if you've
got ethernet connected devices that can
be say gigabit for example so a thousand
megabits will say so with Wi-Fi how do
you connect to your your speakers now if
it's an iphone so airplay is the
technology that you would look for if
your speakers are compatible with
airplay again your iphone is only going
to allow you to connect to one airplay
device at a time out of the box right
but there are apps that you can get that
will allow you to pair well you compared
to more than one device but you can only
play through one device using airplay
though and some supplemental apps you'll
be able to send the stream
simultaneously to multiple devices
because it's not through bluetooth which
is the really really slow medium which
is you know convenient and it's made for
typically designed for Bluetooth
headsets and speakers and headphones and
but not for high bandwidth usage so
let's take a look real quick Jamie
there's a
a nap in the in the iTunes Store I think
it's called multi-room music player
multi-room music player let's try that
iTunes there we go multi-room music /
radio player and multi room being one
word so what this does if they have some
screenshots there you go so using
airplay it will allow you to set up
various zones within your home and
airplay using Wi-Fi means that you are
connected to the higher speed network
which is your wireless internet
basically so it's able to do a lot more
but you have to have airplay compatible
speakers so that's the only caveat the
other thing that you could try going old
school would be through your headphone
jack insert a FM transmitter then any
radio in your house or within even a
block of your house in some cases if
it's powerful enough we'll be able to
pick up the signal from your phone nice
thing about that unlike Wi-Fi where you
may have sync issues where the kitchen
is just a little out of sync from the
living room so you have a bit of an echo
effect going on because it's Wi-Fi
unlike that FM transmission over your
radio is going to be instantaneous so
you don't have any kind of delay from
device to device how much would that
little device oh goodness if you can
find one there like 20 bucks i'm sure
you can find one on amazon please use
our affiliate links by going to category
5 TV and clicking on support us i'm sure
they still exist absolutely and if your
if in doubt if in doubt you know where i
would check is a car audio store because
people still use them when they're
installing decks and things like that so
that they can have the deck in the trunk
and then FM transmitted to the to the
receiver so that you'll definitely find
it there but I guarantee you you'll find
it in electronic stores and and
certainly Amazon carries a lot of that
kind of kind of stuff
that's that's the approach i would
probably take if you don't have airplane
thanks for the question we have time but
we don't have time oh she's like oh say
I didn't over I didn't want to say
anything because I was like Ravi hasn't
noticed he's gone over it I'm sure he's
just going I just care about the viewer
it's too much I just want to make sure
that we give a thorough answer and I do
hope that we've been able to help you
tonight is that a good response can i
say that yeah that works okay I went
over because I care well thank you so
much for being here and thanks to Kelsey
and Sasha Adam who are here running the
show for me and thanks to you for
watching wherever you are make sure you
send us an email live at category 5 done
PPS say hello and hopefully we'll see
the two of you again soon it's a
pleasure having you here hi Sasha sorry
i was in the chat know you're on the job
not being rude that's actually her with
getting into the chat room sorry
communicating so great to be here yeah
it's so nice to see everybody and thank
you again for being here I'll see you
next Tuesday night and we've got a great
show in store for you it's gonna be
funky 16 so yeah happy new year everyone
see you next year good night happy new
year we hope you enjoyed the show
category 5 TV broadcast live from Barrie
Ontario Canada every tuesday at seven pm
eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada will see you next
time thanks for tuning in
