welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 386 for Tuesday the tenth
of februari 2015 hiya I'm Robbie I'm
Sasha tonight we're going to be really
given the show to our viewers we have
received everything from comments to
suggestions to of course your questions
so we're gonna rip into the mailbag in
just a couple minutes time yeah the mail
bag and the chat room so if you have
questions post them in the chat room and
we'll try and get to them today great
way to get to us yeah and now the news
tease here's what's coming up in the
category 5 TV news room blip TV is
winding down after the company that
bought them out got bought out the first
straw houses in the UK to be offered on
the open market are for sale Google is
rebooting glass and a end and a ubuntu
powered smartphone is coming to the
market Samsung is warning customers
about discussing personal information in
front of their smart television sets
stick around the full details are coming
up later in the show this is category 5
technology TV starring Sasha tomatoes
Hillary Rumble Cristo wells
Eric kid
and your host Robbie Ferguson
this is category 5 technology TV i'm
your host Robbie Ferguson hi I'm Sasha
dramatis so nice to have you here Sasha
mentioned at the top of the show make
sure you join us in the chat room its
category 5 on freenode both her and I
are there as well as many people from
our viewer community so make sure you
get into a category 5 on freenode if
you're not sure how to get onto an IRC
channel we make it easy for you go to
our website triple w category five dot
TV and right there you'll find the
interact menu and click on the chat room
you'll find your way in if I can do it
you can do it there you go so and then
I'll see you right here you just feel
way to get your questions in tonight too
because we are really committing the
show to you another way is to email us
live at category 5 TV oh here's the part
where I say category 5 TV is a member of
the tech podcast network if it's deck
it's here cat five dot TV / tpn and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat5 TV / IA ib show off so
this has been the teleprompter hmm Ravi
oh right right right we gotta love him
why don't you tell me how your phone is
doing well Becca's phone that we looked
at last week now that was a lot of fun
for for one thing and lots of great
feedback on our youtube channel and
getting a lot of emails about the the
time that we had last week as we kind of
cut up a sim card and made it into a
micro sim and did some some interesting
things but one of the things that we
kind of ran a little short on time and
so we didn't actually get to to crack
the phone or unlock the phone right so I
did continue to do that after the show
and so I recorded the what it was I was
doing so that I could show you how it
went and it went exceptionally well so I
got the unlock code and after installing
my sim got prompted and just entered the
unlock code and lo and behold the phone
suddenly would take a sim from another
manufacturer now so it wasn't locked
down to
phyto at that point so now that it's
unlocked the next step was to set up the
pay-as-you-go service this is what I'm
able to do where you can get service for
twenty-five dollars every four months
and so it ends up being just a little
more than six dollars a month as far as
the service goes right right if you
didn't catch that feature make sure you
go back to episode number 3 85 and
you'll find that again a category 5 TV
if you're on roku it's the category 5
technology TV channel you'll find
category 5 technology TV in there as
well of course category 5 TV on youtube
so now that I had the phone unlocked
first thing I did was booed up and I'm
going to give you the the live voiceover
for the video that was pre-recorded at
the end of last week's show just so that
you know what's actually going on here
so you know that I cut up the card I cut
up one of the the pay-as-you-go cards
from from petro-canada it's a gas
station but they do cell phone service
that's hilarious how crazy is that right
but you see it when you go into the gas
station and there they are so first
thing I do I've got the card in and I'm
going to dial a phone number so we'll
dial the studio to five four or five two
two eight five eight eight and you'll
see what the phone tells me is that it's
not a recognized not registered on on a
network so there's the the warning this
is before this is before I unlocked it
it said there was an unregistered sim so
then after I unlocked it there's a
little disconnect in the video but after
I unlocked it all I had to do is go to
their website this is provided by
petro-canada so this would be the same
you know similar kind of setup to any
pay-as-you-go serve as you basically go
to their website and activate the card
and then you need to get your I EMI
number again so that's where you just
enter that code its star pound 06 pound
and then enter your imei pardon me into
the into the interface and that
basically activates your phone so now
the sim is going to be activated on that
telephone
so maybe it was unlocked at this point
must have been so goes through the
activation process nothing's seemingly
going on on the phone but you'll notice
then it said that it has been activated
so next thing i did was i rebooted the
phone and then
you'll notice here something has changed
now it's been activated it says that the
sim card is recognized as petro-canada
so they're just to show you what what it
is that I activated so so it is picking
up the same so I was able to
successfully unlock the the phone as
well as convert the full size sim into a
micro sim for this phone is the samsung
galaxy core LTE will try dialing our
number again just to see if this makes
any difference I'll be so great if the
phone ring right now so you see the the
phone is now working it's not giving you
the same error but it's telling you that
there's no money on on the phone in
order to make that phone call so you
pick up a ticket for pay-as-you-go
service $25 is what it cost me and you
just enter the code that is on your
receipt so you actually punch that into
the phone so you're basically done with
the web interface at this point and once
that's done if all goes well it just
quickly dials out and then there you
have it I've refilled my account 25
bucks my balance is 25 bucks and you
notice it expires on jun 3rd now this
was filmed on februari third so it
literally gives me the four months at
only twenty-five dollars twenty-five
yeah so let's redial to five four or
five two two eight five eight eight and
Tom so if somebody were to call that
number the phone would ring here well
when we're on the air the phone is
turned off 00 at Leon unless we have the
cat phone open oh which we tend to do
sometimes but yeah I mean people can
call that number it's 25 45 cat5 TV it's
on our website but that's another way
that you could get into us but I'd have
to plug in the phone okay don't do it
tonight folks still dude tonight unless
you're not watching live and then go
ahead give it a try it go so it worked I
mean it absolutely worked flawlessly
everything that we demonstrated last
week as far as cutting up that
card and making it into a micro sim it
worked and then unlocking the phone it
worked and then activating it on pay as
you go it worked so now Becca's stuck
with a phone that is a samsung galaxy
core LTE right for free she's stuck with
a free phone yeah yeah a nice one yeah
and then and then it it's activated and
set up so that it only costs just twenty
five dollars every four months and if
you want to know how that was done of
course we've mentioned talked a little
bit about that on last week's show but
also talked about it previously and go
to my blog balt nerd calm and find out
all about you know pay as you go it's
just pay-as-you-go service but when
you've got basic needs like myself or my
wife you don't necessarily need to be
paying into a contract where you're
paying a whole lot every month right
it's really just for emergencies in the
occasional oh do you mind picking up
milk kind of call so it kind of works
out so you keep your phone on Wi-Fi then
whenever you correct right yeah so for
our internet service on that device and
and for my devices as well I just use
Wi-Fi because here at least in Canada
and certainly I believe most places that
are fairly well connected in these days
you're going to have Wi-Fi at most
coffee shops and you tend to pick the
ones that have Wi-Fi and those are the
ones that you're going to frequent right
but for me I go from home where I have
Wi-Fi to work where I also have Wi-Fi
how's the coffee at work very good good
very good so you skip the coffee shop
with Wi-Fi altogether well I sometimes
stop but that's a whole other story
especially you know i get i get gift
cards and to me and stuff and that's
kind of fun oh that's lovely mm-hmm
probably gets gift card sent to him nice
right the middle child syndrome here
going on sorry buddy that's okay this
week speaking of sending gift cards just
a quick little appeal to our community
in that this week was a pretty pretty
rough week as far as expenditures go the
co-host laptop which now you remember
several years ago category 5 the studio
i believe it was studio be
was broken into we were robbed laptop
laptop was stolen and the community came
together and purchased for us a new
laptop so that's what you're actually
using tonight so that laptop has been in
operation all this time like we're going
back to when Kristi Burton was was
co-host on the show oh this before me
yeah well well before when you were with
the show so so that's the laptop that so
we've gotten a lot of use out of it and
a lot of life out of it and that was of
course contribution from our community
of viewers everybody kind of came
together and replace that for us and you
know the appreciation for that is
through the roof but the hard drive
crashed on Thursday and because of the
new studio the laptop is kind of what
I'm taking back and forth to home and
doing the uploads every Tuesday night so
that you've got the show Wednesday
morning and this and that and all that
kind of stuff that's that's going on
even producing your show and doing it on
the laptop right so couldn't have
downtime had to go out and buy a new
hard drive for the laptop so you know
that cost about a hundred dollars and
then we had our internet was down for
five days here at the studio so we're
using LTE internet it was completely in
inoperable for about five days I was
worried that we were gonna let it was
going to push us to have to go to the
next solution but rationally the ISP was
able to get it up and running and
figured out whatever it was I felt
really really helpless with the internet
because it's a wireless device mm-hmm
we're plugged in through a USB port to
an LTE hotspot and it's not like a modem
that I can unplug and plug back and see
if it comes back online i can diagnose
the internal wiring there is none so
it's you're basically an entirely
reliant on on the ISP so that was kind
of a rough couple days but we're on
we're live tonight and they had us back
up and running in time they promised
that they would try so so all that to
say you know we have our monthly
expenses here at the studio and and
we're really starting to gauge I think
how much it costs to run the show no
longer out of my house now it's in a
studio space and we're having new
expenses that we've met
had before and most of the contributions
that have been coming in are you know
all of them are hugely appreciated but
they're very specifically allocated to
things like the camera upgrade project
the internet upgrade project but we
still have those month-to-month expenses
and more so now than ever before right
so if you have the means to do so if you
kindly go to cat five dot TV /c and just
throw a little tip in the tip jar and
that would just help us out immensely if
you have the means to do so to actually
subscribe to a monthly contribution of
any amount doesn't matter how little or
how much everything makes a difference
especially when we've got such a large
community right everybody giving five
dollars would be an astronomical it just
boost gettin or a month to month there
is a way that just your regular online
shopping can also kick back to us yeah
and and some people have found some
really unique ways to support the show
to for example you want to give it a
gift card for a movie pass right for a
birthday gift or a Christmas gift or
whatever it might be and so you go to
our website category 5 TV click on
support us and affiliate links and you
see amazon so then you go to amazon and
you purchase your gift card mm-hmm and
it doesn't cost you any more than the
value of the gift card but a small
amount of the the transaction actually
goes to help category 5 TV because you
followed through our affiliate link and
anything that you want to buy on Amazon
eBay B&amp;H photo video tube tape you know
so many different shops there so
spectacular so conceivably you could do
all of your shopping really through the
affiliates amazon do groceries yet you
know i'm i'm pretty sure you sure of a
big house a major bulk product
everything i would like to order one
quartered cow i I laugh about it but I
actually right now at this very moment
in my amazon cart have dishwasher
detergent well then you've answered your
own quirky and on dishwasher detergent
so I literally went on amaz
found it is like twenty dollars cheaper
than buying it in the grocery store not
for long yeah yeah um good guy says they
do sell groceries on amazon nice want
this there you have it folks you gotta
eat you gotta eat I was more thinking
you would buy gift cards and then use
the gift Clark such a union to support
the show yeah I could I could do that
yeah anybody could if I can do it this
is gonna be my slogan if I can do it you
can do it I always think it's kind of
interesting how the world the you know
the economy works and how shopping works
in that you could go and buy a gas gift
certificate for gasoline for your car
you're going to spend twenty dollars
anyways you just buy it through that way
and a portion of it goes to help the
show it's really interesting that that
is possible mm-hmm is very cool so
thanks to those who use the affiliate
links as well not to spend too much time
on that but it was important for me to
mention just because we really kind of
felt it a little bit this week's
Robbie's been losing his hair from all
of this look at this I had beautiful
hair cease until just I wish she was in
person before and after he's now Balder
nerd there could be such I got I'm gonna
have to check the comm note to self
alright is calm available Balder Mary um
I I'm just gonna delve right in now be
some sales I have a fun one it says it's
from 0 to 2 John Zim hey John thanks for
reading and answering my question on air
sorry for sending it twice I got really
excited when I tried unraid and could
not help myself thank you for such a
great show yes that's a little you know
what thanks for the follow up appreciate
it we talked about unraid a few weeks
back yeah it wasn't and some questions
and yeah he's right we didn't let on on
the show but we got the same email a few
times and is really really you know you
find technology and and realize you know
it's like when i first discovered linux
and is the excitement in the the
realization that there's something
different out there something freeing
and unraid is certainly one of those
technologies that is really freeing from
the
the technical headache of running an ass
for a network attached storage and these
days it's getting so great and so
sophisticated and you've got the ability
to do some really cool things with
unraid beyond just storage so I mean
take a note from John really because
truth be told if you don't get an answer
right off the bat there's no problem
three typing it absolutely might as well
or try a couple different things you
know send it and then also mention that
you sent it in the chat room there you
go yeah did you get my exactly and and
that's true too because we do get so
much email that sometimes things I don't
know that things necessarily always they
don't slip through the cracks but
sometimes they're such an amount of
emails that it's hard to get to each one
so it we hope to all right you certainly
try our best a lot of spam to we get a
lot of spam and not the edible kind no
is there any edible spam really here's
here is a question from i will probably
is it JW MP 5051 yes this is a great one
hey Robbie you give a very entertaining
TV program it's so nice to see you laid
back folks just having some geeky fun
and I'm in awe of your vast knowledge
yes I know Google plays a part of it too
it must feel good now that you have room
to swing a cat what was that with the
cats visit the cat that Hilary got us
for the for the open house so that's the
that's the room to swing a cat so okay
we go can't there you go I just hope all
of that's exactly you're supposed to do
we really have the room for it I think
it's funny that you guys Jocelyn I could
play catch with it yeah I think it's
great that you got a cat in a studio
that's no big enough to swing a cat
there you go it's good luck apparently
hmm I just hope all your damn problems
are finally solved are they solved uh
yeah I believe so and actually today was
a good thought and just to just to fill
in those who are not familiar with the
studio D project when we took over this
space we came in and what did we find we
did a big clean the first day was up
clean and somebody was cleaning one of
the walls and the wall kind of came
apart and there was water damage and
there was mold and it was a mess so we
got in here we had to pretty much cut
the place and that's what he's referring
to about the the moisture issues so we
had so many wonderful volunteers Robert
was here several days cocking all the
windows and all the entry points and we
had other friends of the show that were
that were here doing work outside and
inside and I believe they were able to
to seal it up I mean we got all the
drywall up and no more problems and
today being a fairly good thaw it was
pretty mild today and there's no snow
there is no water inside no water inside
I actually observed as I was coming into
the studio because our lobby had leaking
before Oh like back when we took over in
the summer and there was no leaking so
that's our David problems have been
resolved yes all right I just had an
experience on I but he I just had an
experience which may be worth warning
the community about although i've been
using linux on and off for many years
mandrake seven was my first attempt back
in the 90s i have never had the
dedication to get down to the
nitty-gritty of the CLI and delving deep
into how it all works you lie being the
command line interface thank you the
terminal the terminal okay I don't know
know where you type stuff instead oh
that's what I want to get into yeah yes
right all right that's yes stick around
guess what's coming up yeah can I learn
bash that's a great idea and another one
remember and that other one yes I have a
plane I have played and am still playing
with many flavors from backtrack to
Zoran but they're all under virtual box
the following is my first attempt in
many years to install natively on the
hardware and there were problems bear in
mind that I've never seen a raid drive
under linux so I didn't know what to
expect I have a pentium 4 3.8 gigahertz
tower with a to raid two hundred and
fifty gigabytes
drive that right rate to drive raid 0 0
raid 0 two hundred fifty gigabytes dress
okay two drives that are striped so or
not so it's basically it's a raid 0 so
to be 500 gigs of space okay that makes
sense okay with XP media center
installed and another 500 gigabytes ntfs
drive for data all SATA this is not
English I think I bottle thank you I
think I bought it in about 2003 it's big
and noisy by today's standards with all
the fans but it's still fairly quick for
most of the stuff I use and it's a lot
quieter since i upgraded the old ati
video card it to a nice new nvidia card
a couple of years ago hmm good way to do
it i mean if you can build your own and
keep kind of upgrading isn't it sad
though john i encountered this where you
know you build a raid 0 for the
performance of it at the at the risk of
data loss because a raid 0 is not a safe
raid there's no redundancy at all mm-hmm
but you get the speed of two drives
basically combined right and the
capacity of two drives combined so you
get 500 gigs instead of 250 you get
faster because it's using the two
spindles to write data simultaneously
but then SSDs come along and they're
able to write you know 500 megabytes
plus per second and sane and yeah puts
your raid 0 to shame done that and yet
you can get them for so cheap well then
I mean you might as well yeah yeah the
pc isn't used that much anymore since i
have several laptops for myself and
family and XP has been a bit unstable at
times I think I might need a new
motherboard soon I decided it was time
to have a clear out and get rid of XP
creating a dual boot system it's been a
big decision really because I've got
many years of software installations and
tons of data on there any way I've acted
entire system to mine ass all right and
then installed network attached storage
okay it's a server box that a storage
unit that is attached to a network so
other computers can save to it ok and
then installed windows 7 on to the raid
device right raid drives not ready to
dress so we got windows seven installed
yes and then and then i installed point
linux on to the 500 gigabyte drive sdv i
don't know if that's important during
the installation I use second try ok I
use it the installation I used g / Ted
yeah partition manager ok on the live
view I don't bring it up ok let's bring
it up g part ed so i'm gonna go into my
system here how did you do well you do
that i will just note that both emails
today i've been by people named john
isn't that interesting g part ed here we
heard at here yes so when you mentioned
sdb sdb is basically so SD is a nest
SATA hard drive essentially usually
that's the case as opposed to an ide
hard drive that's the interface the plug
that plugs in the hard drive ok so SD
all right i'll get some probably an SATA
hard drive so SDA is the first hard
drive sdb is the second right SDC is the
third and so on so SDA is his array so
there are actually two hard drives
working as SDA simultaneously gotta go
raid sdb is a separate 500 gig hard
drive that's what oh when he was
explaining the previously ok so he had
installed the windows on SDA which is
the array and then he's gonna install
linux on the SD be ok did jeepers dad
ever come on HEK sudo g part dead enter
my password there it is need a gk sudo
so this is a partition manager called g
part ed and this is a representation of
my hard drive and as i was hanging see
mine SDA ok one now signifies the first
partition
pardon me the first partition on that
drive so I also have SDA to which is the
same hard drive but it's the second
partition so what would the reasoning be
to go one two and then five because it
appears that you don't want to in five
what is the reasoning linnaeus
thorvald's no that's the thing is it
nobody really knows it's kind of yeah
it's not necessarily sequential so five
doesn't necessarily mean the fifth
partition I'm just trying to really make
it understandable gato on this case in
my particular case sda1 just happens to
be the first partition SDA to just
happens to be the second partition
because we see the number two and we
think oh that's the seriously well no
it's not actually that's that's not why
it's the second it's the second because
SDA one happens first on the on the
drive then SDA to happens then what SDA
5 happens right well SDA 5 is not the
fifth partition it's just it happens
that the third one is called fit five
just happens to be labeled as or
attributed to SDA five ya see what just
happen here at this conversation I know
yeah we should do it in bosch and that
other one so you see you now I have sdb
as well that's my second hard drive oh
he's right right you see that these are
actually both raid zeros so they're
identical arrays two arrays ones for
storage one's for my operating system so
i can manipulate the partition table
using g part ii d which allows you to
make changes to your file system so in
his case one drive array might be the
windows file system and dress right NT
being windows ntfs file system so then
when he creates the new partitions for
linux they're going to be Linux file
systems right that's the dual boot thing
is that what that is dual booting allows
you to run two operating systems right
on the same computer and in order to
change between them you just reboot your
computer
here right really enforce um buddy who
wants to you know say you want to be
able to use certain windows applications
in a native environment perfect case of
that would be games friends right
because you don't want to run them in a
virtual machine because performance will
be degraded then picking up what you're
laying down all right okay so i used g
part ed on the live DVD to partition the
drives for swap and slash home
partitions i noted that all three drives
were correctly displayed but didn't
adjust any settings on the windows
drives SDA and SDC at the end of the
installation point linux asks where to
install grub i chose the first display
drive where I new windows was installed
sta sta since I wanted to be able to
dual boot but that's your array for the
windows so this was a problem ok Oh was
it is that what you're thinking possibly
depends ok order after the restart there
was no boot loader there were no
bootable drives right both Windows and
Linux were unavailable both of them okay
i went to the lounge fear ok still there
just the bootloader is gone ok so i went
to the live DVD again in google gparted
andrade and quickly found the Jeep art
ed 0.1 2.1 has an issue with detection
of raid drives this bug was corrected in
0.1 4.1 though there may still be other
bugs and later versions okay so the
point Linux installation DVD uses G part
ed 0.1 2.1 as does the final
installation even after installing all
updates ok so this so point Linux the
installer is using the version that he's
found is actually susceptible to this
bug right ok so there's also security
vulnerability in issues lower than 0.1
4.1 ok there's a news link here I know
this I know you are one day you're gonna
be like Oh what was that episode where
they talked about the version of grub
and point Linux and getting it to dual
boot with a raid 0 yeah and then 386
Judas here it is I'm pretty certain that
point Linux if tlie wrote the grub
bootloader to the physical drive SDA
ignoring the fact that it was actually a
member of a striped
a raid array is this grabbed right
performed by a call to jeepers dad or
some other software no not G part ed it
would be whatever like G part ed is a
front end for us to be able to
manipulate the partition tables ok linux
the Installer will you know like rub
would do a grub install on the drive
carry on cuz I'd like to find out where
we're just going with it yeah before I
interrupt and give my thoughts okay
after a lot of faffing which I didn't
know was a word after a lot of faffing
around in the bios I eventually got the
drives unrated and windows reinstalled
on one of the 250 gigabyte drives
laughing so I'm wasted effing around oh
I'm gonna use that even though it could
see the dr reduced role of out faffing i
guess even though it could see the
drives windows refuse to install it
until i reinstated the raid controller
with no configured raid array finally i
installed point linux on the second 250
gigabyte drive and partitioned the 500
gigabyte drive so that fifty percent is
ntfs and fifty percent external for ya
xt4 is the Linux file system that he'd
be using ok my head is spinning so don't
worry okay all is working well and once
I've got some of the more essential is
software installed I will move the slash
home folder to the EXT for ya to the
partition on the 500 gigabyte drive as
you explained in episode 337 many thanks
for that tutorial indeed I would think
it would be a good idea to warn people
not to use the point Linux version of G
part ed to partition the drives if there
is a raid configuration present my next
question has to be how do I get an
up-to-date version of gparted installed
in point Linux it doesn't matter so much
now but even after updating synaptic
package manager only
version 0.1 to point 1 / 2 is available
this is G part ed yes ok so not the grub
bootloader itself but gparted yes
because out of the box I get a 404 not
found error when issuing apt-get update
yeah or 04 yeah that's a file not found
file not found 404 sometimes are fun to
find cuz some people will do fun things
that they're 404 I have fence ours is
pretty fun I don't know what ours looks
like what's our weather our 404 looks
like no let's see all right not today
Chris category 5 TV / blue a la page not
found oh I love it for guy I good 404
but our 404 also automatically generates
search for you and does all this kind of
stuff and if you in it it will
automatically check our database for
stuff but they're digging look at how
much here you had done and it wasn't me
it's 659 it's like one minute 27 exactly
exactly that is perfect please I digress
dunno well please make your 404 is fun
make for people like me okay I am
enclosing a text file repose showing the
outpost of app get update home / john /
repose okay there's a screenshot I'm
gonna look at that let's see what
version of ya see gparted in on my
system point linux is 0.1 2.1 mm-hmm
pretty classic a 2012 mm-hmm so so what
you can do little hack around if you're
in a situation now that is always work
just fine for me I've never had any
trouble like you have John it seems
pardon me it's specific to your
particular installation oh boy those
raid drives are causing the problem that
he's encountering with gparted so
because it's never affected me it's okay
but because it's affecting you well you
could think creatively and get a gparted
live disc as far as getting the latest
version on point Linux I mean you can
you can check repositories it is an
older version on the point Linux that i
have installed but the version of point
Linux that i have installed is based on
debian stable point Linux three for
example is based on debian testing so
that's an unstable branch which means
they have more bleeding edge software so
if you're using a stable debian it's
going to be older software because it's
tried and true it's tested and it works
really well if you want to have the
bleeding edge stuff newer versions of
software you've got to go with something
that's not considered stable and stable
in this case doesn't necessarily mean
it's gonna break your system right it
simply means that it has been tried and
true right so there's no bugs or
anything founded or the bugs have been
worked out or worked around right at
least it's considered to be stable
enough that it's it's you know to to be
called stable mm-hmm but testing and
unstable branches of the operating
system just simply mean that they're
newer versions of software that have not
been tested as much so hmm okay so
gparted yes live so what you can do is
you can pre-partition your hard drive
mm-hmm and then mmm then boot up and do
your install so what version is this so
gparted live as a live CD or live USB
let's see G part ed does it say the
version i'm not sure but you know that's
that's what i would do anyways if I
really really needed to I would look at
what what live CDs are available boot up
re partition my hard drive then don't
understand I have to finish this email
so adorable I apologize for the length
of this email it started out much
shorter yes it did it started out with
hi Robbie
they'll start short yeah it really did
star chart when I first brought it up it
was just this nice little memory though
this is white square maybe it will give
you an idea for a program feature which
it has come at this point there you go
yes PS sometimes it's very difficult to
see what is happening and to follow what
you are doing on your demo machine
particularly when you're clicking around
a bit it would be really useful if you
could somehow get your mouse cursor to
display during demos I can do that maybe
we could try that I don't know that's
actually done on purpose so when I do a
demo yeah I can zoom in and I can do
stuff and you don't see my mouse cursor
but you see where I click OK do you want
to know why that is why cuz we're ready
for the news right and you don't see my
mouse cursor right ah see ok so it's
it's a bit of a hack around so that when
we do our news segment I'm just gonna
kind of mosey on over when we do the
news I don't have a mouse cursor on the
screen right Sasha right ruin your show
so as a side note if you've installed a
Linux operating system and you find that
ok grub is broken I can't get my system
to boot now you know I talked about
using a live CD with G part and to do
your partitioning but you can actually
get a grub live CD as well to actually
fix the grub boot loader or to reinstall
it or to install a newer version let's
just see here I always forget the new
version at the new name it's called resk
attacks used to be called super grub
disc and so I still find it the same way
I type in super grub disc into Google
resk attacks is a nap location or a boot
CD that will allow you to fix botched
grub boot loaders so if you're if you
find yourself in that case that may be
an answer for you in the meantime we
talked about the news and Sasha terminus
it's off to you hello it's tuesday
februari tenth 2015 and here are the
stories were covering this week blip TV
seems to be winding down since the
company that bought it was itself
recently bought out luckily the big bad
wolf is a work of fiction because UK's
open housing market now features homes
built of straw if at first you fail get
up and try again google is taking
another stab at Google glass but this
time they're not letting us see it until
it's ready the Aquarius efore point 5 12
edition smartphone is coming to market
and your TV is listening to you be
careful what you say these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
depending on where you're located in
this big old world of ours you may
remember it as either the Sega Mega
Drive or the Sega Genesis and now more
than a quarter of a century after its
original release in Japan it's more
convenient than ever to take these
classic sega games with you my review is
coming right up stick around try it buy
it
i'm sascha through madison here are the
top stories from the category 5 TV news
room a lot of online video platforms
have disappeared over the years now it
looks like one while not shutting down
is having a pretty brisk spring clean
blip TV the video distribution startup
acquired by maker studios which is now
itself getting acquired by disney has
been sending out notices to many users
telling them that their accounts are
getting closed that's on top of the fact
that it's currently not accepting new
producers Jeff O'Connell and SVP of
technology at maker studios and blip
says blip isn't shutting down we're just
closing more accounts as part of our
effort to focus the library in the
meantime while blip the site is up and
running it seems to be somewhat on
autopilot the company's blog has not
been updated in three months and one of
the last entries entries invites users
to instead follow the maker studios blog
of the two people who ran the blip TV
blog one now describes himself as VP of
Product at maker and the other works
elsewhere hmmm i don't even know of blip
TV is that weird what is blip TV the
story of blip TVs demise yeah and that's
why they were able to be purchased for
so little but fact is we actually
broadcasted through blip TV for many
years I mean it was a great service to
provide RSS feed provision so the files
the big video files that we have to
serve up but then you know YouTube
really I mean blip TV had nothing on it
but it was more of a focus platform more
for shows as opposed to little short
videos kind of thing so so we actually
continued to upload to blip TV even
though it's been dwindling for some time
and viewership has gone way way down on
blip TV because it still is a provision
source for for RSS feeds so in an event
that say Vimeo went down week
could roll over our feeds to blip TV and
people would still be able to watch the
show on on their Roku and on RSS feeds
because it would be coming from blip so
now that they're gone that means shows
like ours have lost that feature but it
also means that some shows that we're
really heavily broadcasting through blip
don't know that there are as many
anymore right it kind of felt like it
was Wendling for some time well bless
you know it says still sad to see them
go yeah wasn't monetizable platform that
story all of a sudden became very
depressing for me I'd never got another
gone yup you're doing great I didn't
even know they were awesome and now
they're gone yeah I know oh they were
semi awesome okay say where it was one
of those things I mean like any startup
in any company that tries to do
something differently it's got to be it
was great for content producers that's
the thing it was not great for viewers
right and and continues to be so mm-hmm
so we've pulled out so we're no longer
on blip right the old shows are there
and everything Tonight Show will be the
first one that's not being uploaded to
blip TV which is kind of sad because
we've been there since the beginning
you've been around a long time folks so
here's a great fun story as you can see
studio D is made of brick but the first
the open market are on sale those straw
walls might be most readily linked to a
story of pigs making questionable
construction choices the team behind
these homes says the material could help
sustainably meet housing demand the
homes are the result of an engineering
research project led by the University
of Bath the houses on a street of
traditional brick built homes in Bristol
are clad in brick to fit in with the
surroundings but they're prefabricated
walls or timber-framed filled with straw
bales and encased in wooden boards
professor Pete Walker from the
University of Bath led the research and
says that straw is a very efficient
insulator so these homes should reduce
energy bills by as much as ninety
percent
here to the other houses around the site
what yeah are they building them in like
this Shack area or well I you know I
mean I'm not done reading the story so
who knows but I would worry I worry that
um straw is extraordinarily flammable
right like timber burns timber doesn't
flash burn the way straw flash or blown
in insulation for example blown in foam
insulation that I would think would be
very effective and efficient at in
comparison to something like straw but
without with the flame retardation
basically it's able to repel but not as
sustainable right not a sustainable
exact this is I think pointing towards
sustainability you just don't want to
lit candle in your home hmm you don't
want to have Jack be nimble over at the
Three Little Pigs house although these
are not the first homes in the UK to be
built using straw bales they are the
first to be built for any buyer in the
open market professor Walker says the
more we can build out of renewable
materials like straw and timber the less
carbon will be in the atmosphere so we
can reduce climate change effects hmm i
would agree i would just worry about the
safety like i would rather have a clay
home than a straw home right thinking on
the carbon thing though that makes me
think too that it because as a an
organic matter straw would be carbon
absorption right but it also helped to
help the air right unless you had a damp
problem because that's true too right
cuz straw as a natural product with mold
easily with every molding so unless you
were to spray it with a fire-retardant
material and a mold resistant material
thus making it less healthy as opposed
to more right i would like to look into
this more maybe build myself a straw
home google is starting again from
scratch with its glass project sales of
the controversial smart spectacles were
halted in january and development of the
prototype has also believed was also
believed to have been stopped
first revealed in 2011 google glass made
a big impact in mid 2012 when the
company demonstrated it at its
developers conference using skydivers
and stunt cyclists the wow factor but
many working on the device were unhappy
with the exposure because it meant its
final development had to take place in
public the New York Times said the
controversy the project gained gave rise
to tensions among the development team
forcing some key researchers to leave
glass development is now being driven by
the former apple gadget designer Tony
Fadell who has reset the project the new
version will be developed internally and
only released when finished I wonder
like it seems very like a covert
operation I wonder what the glass maybe
though this coming from the company that
has purchased artificial intelligence
companies and robotics companies and now
is working behind closed doors I just
wonder like what why does google glass
going to become because i think most of
the pushback from google glass was that
it was it just was it's creepy and it
makes you feel like you're always being
recorded right so are they just gonna
make it a little bit less creepy Biden
fake eyeballs what i was thinking like
could you really put like that maybe a
contact that would be in your eye that
record augmented reality in a contact
lens now that would be awesome that
would be really great that means you
could close your eyes and read your
email hey why are you sleep you can
watch a movie wow i think it from a
design perspective I hope that Tony will
improve upon their logo because I don't
know about you I like to Kern my logos
because GL ass is not a real thing
probably I haven't had a lot of sleeve
if I all of my design or is there yeah
yeah learn to Kern man lovely well good
luck to you google glass I still think
you're creepy and a boon to powered
smartphone is coming to the market a
year and a half after previous attempt
to launch a model via crowdfunding
failed the aquarius
efore bright slideshow mode sorry about
that oh sorry happening what we just
went into a slideshow it's the Age of
Aquarius the Aquarius a 4.5 Ubuntu
edition relies on a card like user
interface that is not focused on apps
unlike the original proposal the handset
does not become a desktop PC when
plugged into a monitor it is initially
being targeted at early adopters who
developers hope will become advocates
for the platform the British company
canonical canonical which developed the
linux-based operating system said it
hoped to emulate the success of Chinese
companies including zo me which it with
its launch strategy Jia me this includes
holding a number of flash sales in
Europe beginning this week in which the
device will be sold for a short period
of time giving the developers an
opportunity to gauge demand in response
to feedback before committing to a
bigger production run the aboon to
handset can run apps written in either
html5 web program programming language
or its own native qml code however its
operating system effectively hides them
away instead of the traditional
smartphone user interface featuring
grids of apps that it uses themed cards
that group together different facilities
canonical calls these scopes and they're
reminiscent of the swipe based card
system used by the Google now personal
assistant the phones themselves are
being made and sold by a Spanish company
BQ which already has an Android variant
of the hardware they include an eight
megapixel rear camera a 5-megapixel
front 1 and a 1 gigabyte of ram memory
they will cost about 170 euros which is
195 dollars or 127 pounds so this is a
phone that I would want Robbie yeah is
what self professing geek wouldn't want
in a bundu phone so what's a scope what
do you think a scope would look like I
don't know you know I'm gonna have to
experience the the
to platform on phones I really like the
ubuntu edge and the whole idea behind
marks vision for a phone that was
dockable to become a desktop computer
basically really kind of like that idea
so where they're going with it we'll
have to see I know that some of the
flash sales are going on today I think
they're taking a break but we're going
to see more and more of these getting
actual physical reviews since they are
becoming available on the market so so
what you're saying is that possibly this
could be a product that I could love my
new show hey there is no that'll be an
idea where are your phone how's your
Samsung treating you is this be kind of
bleeding edge for sure no pun intended
how awesome would that be not so awesome
in the tech world I feel like this
happens weekly actually Samsung is
warning customers about discussing
personal information in front of their
smart television set what yes scary
stuff the warning applies to TV viewers
who control their Samsung Smart TV using
its voice activation feature when the
feature is active such TV sets listen to
what is said and may share what they
hear with Samsung or third parties it
said Samsung's privacy policy for its
net connected smart TV sets explained
that the TV will be listening to people
in the same room to try and spot when
commands or queries are issued via the
remote it goes on to say if you're
spoken words include personal or other
sensitive information that information
will be among the data captured and
transmitted to a third party the third
party being the company providing speech
to text conversation for samsung
publicity about the issue LED competitor
LG to create a software update which
ensured data collection was turned off
for those who did not want to share
information so from what I understand
your information will only be gathered
while you're actually actively using the
voice recognition on your remote like
it's not always constantly working
that's kind of the the misconception I
think when it comes to you know news
stories and
these kinds of technologies and there's
a fear mongering that happens right and
Samsung's immediate almost while the
warning or the the admission that this
is actually happening it kind of makes
everybody sit on edge but the fact is
yeah I mean to activate Siri how do you
what do you do you holding the home
button nerds right there's a process so
on your samsung remote there's actually
a button that allows you to activate the
feature I have one of these remote and
literally I have to press a button talk
in the microphone channel 4 and then it
switches to channel 4 right so if while
I'm pressing that button i say i am
planning on taking over the world right
then everybody hears that and it doesn't
switch to channel 4 instead i take you
over to the microsoft channel or google
glass okay yeah I think that it's it's
more it's the fear of you don't
necessarily know what your technology is
doing behind under the hood behind the
scenes I mean we hear about smart cars
and the fact that they're broadcasting
unencrypted information and being able
to be controlled by unencrypted
connections and then you have a smart TV
that when you tell it what to do it
actually transmits that voice command to
a third party service if it doesn't
recognize it off the bat it's translated
then and sent back but who's to say you
know is that know who's intercepting it
who's controlling it who is in charge of
that information in that content that
data TVs have webcams built into them
now and so it starts to become very
creepy when you think about the Big
Brother aspect and you know the the
ability of governments to you know use
these kinds of technologies mm-hmm that
it could happen I think makes people
feel that it is happening even though it
may not be yeah creepy and scary but I
think we'll be okay for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias visit the
category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm Sasha dramatis
thanks Sasha this is category 5
technology TV i'm your host Robbie
Ferguson and we love getting your
questions send us an email live at
category five dot TV we've got very
little time left I can't we have another
new it okay yes okay I think um I just
took a look at one of your wire cast
tutorials which I found very informative
one thing I'm not clear on is the audio
input into your computer on my laptop I
have only a mini input what type of
input do you have on your computer and
is that audio coming off a mixer is
there a USB mic that is a reliable
option for me thank you from sad for you
fan ah let's see i'm gonna see if i can
i don't think i have a camera that i can
show you unfortunately i wish i was
ready for you I'd have my Wirecast cam
up on the ipod that would be awesome
when it ya think i can do it maybe one
and well you know while you're pulling
that up i can quickly read another one
well let's see if i can connect like
okay instantly super fast a scam is
pretty great that way all right thank
connect oh there we go got a camera okay
so now I've got a camera in my hand with
an ipod touch okay this is our sound
board this is where we pull all the
audio we have so our headset microphones
go into XLR adapters and those go out to
the board the board then goes into
compressor which adjusts the levels of
our audio and then a sonic maximizer
which adds some beautiful sound to it
and you'll see that we've got a quarter
inch to two 8-inch adapters coming out
of the board and we've actually got
quarter-inch going to XLR going out to
the rack units and then from the rack
units then all the cables go out and it
is actually just a quarter a pinch it's
an eighth inch so we actually have it
going to an eighth inch input that's
tough when I got wires all over me
at least you got to see so yeah it is uh
same stuff that you've got there's our
iPad with an eighth inch cable going out
to a second sound card and this is our
our cartwell system so that we can play
our theme music and everything so
because that has to happen i'm going to
trigger that there's a little bit of a
delay on the ipod touch but you'll see
that the music then starts playing and
that's going out through a quarter inch
as well so it would be good in a
broadcast environment if you have to run
long cables to use a balanced input on
your computer in our case we have a very
little amount of distance from the
mixing console to the computer itself
and we've wrapped the cables around
magnets so that it would absorb some of
the interference speaking of wrapping
mm-hmm we have to wrap it up oh okay
that was the fastest hour of life Wow um
and I'm really really sorry spice Jack's
but I did not get to your question /
comments next week it will happen
Hillary rumble will be here and I
promise you Hillary rumble will get to
your questions so sorry I would not let
this slide I blame Robbie oh my fault I
was talking away during your news
segment Vic's very most interesting news
stories that's the problem I know I know
so check it out really really fast look
at our Telestream Wirecast look at the
top right there we are streaming about
50,000 kilobits per second with only
forty-two percent cpu usage thank you to
everybody who helps to support the show
we are recording two discs in the
highest resolution highest bitrate that
we have ever done i hope that this looks
fantastic we've got the new camera up
and running we've got Sasha on a new
camera over in the newsroom should it
look better tonight than ever before
we're working on the audio issues so
this is a time of transition for us as a
live show that broadcast every week it's
hard for us to get there because we
don't have down time I'd love to have
three months off where we can just week
everything but we don't so
we're doing it on the fly and I hope it
was great tonight see the roku was
working well for everybody so that's a
real plus I'm glad that's working for
you so have a wonderful week and we'll
won't be here next week's that's right
get ready for more see you next Tuesday
night we hope you enjoyed the show
category 5 TV broadcasts live from
Barrie Ontario Canada every tuesday at
seven pm eastern if you're watching this
on demand or through cable TV check out
the local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
