look at what I got here my maker kit oh
you can't see it because it's out of the
frame there it is oh I love this stuff
I've been learning to be a maker I want
to learn to create and craft and create
circuitry like I'm I'm making little
little guys like this like this is this
is kind of you know so I'm building
boards again microcontrollers and but
it's a lot of work I and I'm getting
there
yes and so I really feel like you know
we're at that point we're here on the
show it's time to take our maker
activities to the next level where we're
actually creating circuitry we're
creating things that work things that
make things go yes and like it gets me
excited but I'm still very much a novice
and so me is the host of the show I'm so
hesitant to bring this stuff out because
I know that I'm really opening up an
opportunity to to have a show where
something goes terribly wrong things do
not work the way that they're meant to
right because I'm new to this yes so I
feel like this is a chance for us to
learn together and I hope that you're
willing I am willing to learn because
we're gonna learn together this is this
is us yes it down to learn and what I
have here tonight it's an 80 tiny 85
circuit board this is a microcontroller
it's called the digi spark Kickstarter
campaign to build this Arduino
controller things that I can do with
this now you think about a Raspberry Pi
it's a it's a microcomputer and you can
you can use the GPIO headers and you can
build things you can allow it to control
things and do whatever you code it to do
right but a Raspberry Pi when it's all
said and done really I mean they say 25
bucks but really when you've got the
case and the power supply and everything
else it's gonna cost you nearly a
hundred bucks for that board
this is about three dollars okay so this
is just the microcontroller it's not a
computer it is something that I'm going
to program to do things that are
repetitive tasks so that can be a
program that controls lighting or a
program that responds to keystrokes or
button presses ah yeah and one of the
things here at studio D that we've had
an issue with is controlling our camera
switcher so we use Telestream Wirecast
on our on our system here and it looks a
little like that and this software I can
control with my touchscreen but you
notice when we do interviews and things
like that I have to sit over there and
everybody else is at the table because
we don't have a way to switch because
I've got to be able to physically
interact with the touchscreen right so
it does sometimes make it difficult and
I'm like over there what if I could turn
this and a bunch of these arcade buttons
in the top of our desk right into camera
switching buttons so perfect that's what
we hope to do that's what we will do
that is we will do lord willing that is
going to happen and I'm not gonna blow
up the studio right these buttons are
literally just arcade buttons that you
can build your own arcade rig and the
the idea is that we're gonna have a
bunch of them in front of us drilled
into the desk when we hit a button you
can push your button try it and now your
camera is gonna turn on oh and I can hit
show yeah I know right I'm just gonna
have to hold mine in right right right
right
so what's gonna happen is that's gonna
send a signal to our little
microcontroller right the digi spark
right did I mention this is like three
four dollars this is like yeah and so
we're gonna be able to control that now
the digi spark only has it now it's got
five headers on it and and I wonder if
you can see this I know it's I you know
what I'm gonna get a really
look at this with the five headers okay
on that overhead camera can you turn the
mic off thank you very much you're very
well thank you for letting us know about
that issue so let's do that
here's my overhead camera and boom is
live TV my friends yeah yeah so I'll
tell you this food who figured out what
it was oh yeah yeah let's make sure I
got it
have I got regular sound you can hear me
just fine oh no no oh you guys want to
see how I do this yeah okay so Wirecast
for those of you who are interested in
broadcasting so this is our main
microphone this is our headset and
you're hearing the shot and go to camera
and then go here now turn off the
microphone built into the camera and lo
and behold now it should sound
absolutely fantastic now there you go
our mics are okay now our mics are
beautiful okay yeah does that sound good
does that sound good folks part of the
fun of doing a live broadcast like this
and whether you're watching live or on
demand I love the interaction with our
chat room it's like you are our director
producers yes yeah all right let's fire
up our microscope you've seen this on
the show if you haven't already make
sure you go to our website category 5 TV
do a quick search for microscope and
let's super-awesome
oh yeah ok let's get our little micro
controller in here and you know what
other show can do this folks so that we
can get this and boom so this is the
circuit board that we are looking at all
right so we've got USB which is your
power as well as
programming so it's dual purpose it does
not have to be connected to a computer
in order to operate it but it does in
order to program them we're going to
start that tonight now we've got some
some chips and some resistors and
following the circuits up here we've got
there's the eighty tiny eighty-five chip
okay and that is the actual
microcontroller just an absolutely
brilliant chip and you'll see that this
thing came pre soldered preassembled but
it's very very basic it's so tiny like
so that looks huge on your screen but
this is this is it I can't even order so
okay so pin wise we've got a five volt a
ground and a ven then we've got actually
six pins because it starts at p0 naught
P 1 and that's P zero through five so
the thing about this particular module
so the the controller the the digi spark
is that it only can it can only have
three of these pins used to control a
device out of the box
oh okay so if we want to turn on lights
or if we want to change cameras right
it's a problem because we could then
only hook up three buttons right so if I
want to have 15 different camera
switching taking place it's not going to
work so that's where I'm gonna be
introducing a shift register which is
going to take one pin and turn it into
eight pins and allow us digitally to
control okay I guess seven one devices
seven camera angles from one okay from
one pin on the so you wouldn't need to
buy another one of those chips or
anything just said no yep you could I
mean at three or four dollars per
controller you could just make a bunch
of them but then you're using up USB
ports in your computer to control it
right because it's gonna be a hardwired
device that allows us to control our
cameras right that's the inevitable goal
no that's not what we're doing tonight
we're just gonna have some fun do you
have a question you may not may or may
not know the answer to so you know you
have the p1 through yes you're through
so obviously only three of those pins
work right well p0 and one actually
control this is let's see if I can get
in here with a pencil so that you can
see
that is a pencil led just so you know
how small this is that is a mechanical
pencil that is an LED okay and that's P
0 or P that one would be P one okay and
that looks like another LED there okay
zero so these trigger p 0 and P 1
actually trigger LEDs that are built
into the circuit board got it so what we
want to do is we want to use for example
P 4 and I believe we can actually use p
0 and P 1 I'm still learning the
programmatic you know how the circuit
works right but I know that we can
definitely use P 4 in order to as a
header that we can use to control like
in our case tonight we're gonna try to
control an LED okay okay all right let's
do this so and inevitably we know that
that's going to be something much more
exciting so let's bring out my maker kit
okay because one of the things that we
need to do now it's got all these holes
in it right we need to have we need to
use headers so that we can plug things
into rest of hice look at how huge it
looks on the screen okay and I've got a
power header here as well these things
are great like a maker kit like this you
pick them up through our shop on our
website but just having all these kinds
of little trinkets handy now these
headers come with your your digi spark
but we're gonna need to actually solder
those on to our board so I've got
lead-free solder and I've got my
wireless soldering iron and and I bought
this but I I think I'd rather have a
soldering station yeah I'm not really
pleased with having a wireless soldering
iron it's really really it doesn't stay
hot long enough right that kind of stays
limitations right yeah so I'm just gonna
I'm just gonna prompt those up like that
you could use your helping hands if
you'd like let's get some heat here on
our soldering iron and for the magic of
TV it's cool that you can actually see
that up close and personal like that I
actually never seen soldering happen oh
yeah in my entire life get ready to see
it poorly done well it'll be the best
I've ever seen
wonderful let's see that see how I
played that folks all right so let's get
a little bit of solder on
our tip there let's see if we're getting
any heat I don't like how long this
takes to heat up or smokin yeah I'm
gonna get a little bit of heat going on
the pin there as well
let's get in there ba all right
boom look at how much my soldering has
improved folks just because I can work
at the microscopic level now get some
heat I could never do this with the
amount of coffee I drink look at look at
how much coffee I drink come on be real
here Wow heavy so shaky
we say that it's interesting though
having purchased this this microscope I
and I am a little bit shaky you can see
it's late in the day and I have had
several pots of coffee but I'm doing an
okay job there this looks cool it looks
nice right so but working at the
microscopic with this device I find I'm
actually like your brain switches to
microscopic mode and suddenly I'm
actually doing it right now I'm putting
the pins on the reverse side here which
is fine you can put it on the front or
the back now I'm putting them on the
reverse because I'd like to have the USB
exposed on the on the outside so that
when I put this in a case it's gonna be
a little bit nicer just so you know why
I'm doing it that okay okay so now we're
gonna do a quick job on these guys here
let's get that in the shot there we go
okay so this what I'm what I'm gonna do
here I'm gonna back up just a little bit
for you get into focus here and I'm
actually going to get some solder on my
soldering iron and hold these so I'm
holding these pins in place with my
finger and then we're gonna get that
solder right on there
so that the solder is actually going to
hold this into place so solder is glue
like like glue not it's obviously not
all yeah it is getting really hot
they're burning my finger you may want
to use something a little better than
your fingers here folks all right let's
get some solder around there here we go
I'm just getting that right there yeah
what is it made out of it's magic and
dreams okay that's good looks looks like
dreams working at the microscopic is so
neat what happened to my good soldering
conductive glue thank you this is why I
love the chatroom so much I'm gonna do
this I'm gonna take a different approach
okay
okay so what I'm actually going to do
I'm going to set this up flat see and I
love learning I love figuring things out
okay can you guys see I'd say would be
helpful if I held it but it's like so
super tiny it is really telling you at
all what I'm gonna do I'm gonna put it
down like that and I just I just want to
get one pin on there because once one
pin is is nice and solid yeah it will
hold them all together so that I can I
can do the rest right and I'm not using
helping hands which is a device that
will help me by the name alone yeah I
understood yeah so you could do a better
job than I'm doing right now and that's
you know part of you know I I want
people to know that it's okay to learn
right because I am very much new Wow
it's so weird what what is happening to
it
hi I really don't like these soldering
irons it's basically you know it's not
it doesn't get hot enough
can you just drip that stuff on it in
fact well no I want to actually get and
I'll tell you why I want to get it hot I
want to get the pin hot enough okay that
it's going to adhere to it
basically I'm wicking the pin and
getting the pin hot and then letting the
solder adhere to the board
oh and boom a little bit crooked but
it'll hold okay so you know let's grab
the other end
hmm all right so I'm gonna finish up all
6 of these pins I can do a little better
job than what you're seeing here cuz I'm
focusing kind of on video Wow
you can see it's not melting right
that's this soldering iron I really
don't like these I want to get a
soldering station so this is not a
winning endorsement of this soldering I
know it really isn't and and I think you
know I thought hey let's get a wireless
soldering iron it's battery-powered and
it really does a lousy job it doesn't
get hot enough it doesn't stay hot
enough so I'm gonna finish this up we're
gonna come right back after a quick
break when we're back this is all gonna
be beautifully soldered folks yeah and
then we're gonna plug it in we're gonna
turn it on and we're gonna see what we
can come up with as we start programming
our Arduino device stick around
[Music]
[Applause]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV now I
said it I really don't like this
soldering iron it's so cool it doesn't
get hot enough it's not doing the job
Amy I want to get so that's one of the
things I want to add to my kit is I want
to get a good soldering station that is
hard plugged into the wall that heats up
real fast and you can set the
temperature so watch out when you're
buying these that you can actually
adjust the temperature not the voltage
but the temperature that's important
that's going to make a world of
difference now I did a pretty miserable
job here with this but we've got Sasha
don't be a jerk tonight
well it looks really good alright so
back to the demonstration where you know
Robbie is showing you how to do things
can we move on yes so what I want to do
now is I want to program this so now
we've got these headers so I can plug
things into it ok it may not be a
perfect soldering job that's ok I'm
learning we're learning again these are
brutally cheap right so I can buy one
I can mess around with it and I've done
that I burnt out one and I've got
another one that I'm putting on a board
and and I can do all these things and
have fun with it and not be afraid to
try exactly that's part of what's so
exciting about the Arduino okay so I'm
gonna get an LED right like light
emitting diode it's just an itty bitty
thing there you go all right so we've
got a red LED I'm just gonna set that
down right there
you can't even there it is right there
okay what else do we need
I'm gonna get my breadboard and do you
know what a breadboard is well probably
not thinking the same thing not the same
thing it's this so what this does is it
allows me to plug things in and
prototype tests and let's get this piece
of junk out of the way it's gonna it's
gonna avoid having to solder and let me
plug things in to set them up so now I
can take this LED and just plug it right
into this board okay got it
great okay next up we're gonna need some
wires got them positive and negative and
anything else I'm gonna power it from my
computer I've got a Raspberry Pi power
adapter you need a couple of wires I've
got those they're great to have one of
these kits folks cat5 dot TV slash maker
if you want to pick one up okay so let's
get in there and let's get started on
setting up our arduino device so this is
the digi spark so with this circuit
board now we know we've got pin four so
I'm gonna grab pin four here and just
simply plug in my lead I'm gonna use
black for pin 4 and then we want the
ground as well because what we're gonna
do is we're gonna program this to say
hey pin 4 is going to be 5 volts and
then it's gonna be ground and then it's
gonna be 5 volts and it's gonna be
ground so we're gonna be able to
basically flash this LED right that's
just a test so that one we know that the
board works and 2 we know that it's able
to communicate with our computer we're
able to set it up and program it and
it's going to prepare us for that moment
when we can set up all these buttons and
do something a little more sophisticated
so with my breadboard now I'm just going
to plug in these leads so I'm gonna have
positive is going to be my pin four and
negative is going to be my ground okay
so now I'm gonna have to come tell this
let's get my coffee mug out of the way
here so that you guys can see that just
a little bit better so I'm going to tell
this now where to run those lines to so
I'm just gonna grab a couple of quick
little wires here so I've got the
positive is going to go - I'm just gonna
plug it in - yeah line 21 that's fine a
my negative is going to go to line let's
plug it into 17
how about so that's how your breadboard
works so now I can take this so my
positive is the is 21 so I can take the
LED the long end is my positive I can
plug that into 21 and then take the
other end the negative and plug it into
17 which is a bit of a stretch why did I
choose those berries there we go no
there we go so that's what the
breadboard allows me to do it allows me
to set something up like that basic
circuit and now that's can that's
plugged into my Arduino controller Thank
You spark so now I can plug this into a
computer and start programming it I
don't have to have this plugged into the
breadboard right now but I'm interested
to see what's gonna happen if I if I do
okay okay so you need a really good USB
cable
make sure it covers it carries data and
not just not just charger cable okay I
was plugging in my charger cable for my
phone not realizing oh it's not actually
transferring data so it wasn't working
and then turns out lo and behold it was
actually bad cable head on over to digi
stump comm for more information like
they've got their wiki there did you
spark duck digi stump comm slash wiki is
where you want to head over to
and that's where we're gonna get
information about you know setting up
let's bring up my screen here connecting
and programming your digi spark we can
go through the steps there and that's
essentially what we're what you know
we've already got it connected but we're
gonna learn to program it really really
quickly so I'm not gonna plug it in just
now what I want to do is I want to bring
up my IDE which I've already installed
follow the instructions there on digi
stump dot-com and with my Arduino IDE
let's create a really quick application
so you can grab some kind of ideas from
here we're just gonna create something
that is going to turn on and off pin 4
so you see the demonstration here is pin
0 and 1 the built-in LEDs we're gonna go
pin mode for output and then we're gonna
go down to loop so that was our setup so
we've told it that that is an output
port we're gonna set a loop to we're
gonna use their example digital write 0
it high so that is pin 0 but we're gonna
go digital write 4 comma high high
semicolon and then we're gonna delay for
one second which is 1000 milliseconds
and then we're gonna copy that line now
what do you think high means versus low
which is what I'm gonna put here just a
guess I'm on or off yes so basically 5
volts is high right low is ground so see
we're gonna be switching it on 5 volts
waiting for one second
switching it off perfect and then thank
you for asking me a question that I knew
the answer to fantastic ok so now I'm
gonna save that and verify my my program
so it's gonna compile it make sure that
everything is good and it says done
compiling and that is about the most
basic program so if you've got a typo it
will tell you now upload so when I click
upload it's going to recompile and then
it says plug-in device now and this is
going to be your moment of truth so
let's take this device I'm gonna do
connect my pins from the breadboard
right now because I just want to plug it
in and allow it to communicate with the
Arduino IDE now I heard the device
connect and it says micronucleus done
thank you done uploading down at the
bottom left I know it's hard for you to
see so now that that's done I can simply
unplug it that's all there was to it
sash that is crazy
so I've uploaded my program now it's in
there and now I'm gonna plug in my
Arduino device black is to pin 4 and
white is to my ground ok
so that's what my circuit now looks like
and I'm going to simply plug this into
USB power so I'm not plugging them to
the computer I want to actually power
this device and see if it runs my
program and if it does we should see
this light flash there we go that is
neat every 1 second so we actually
created the circuit fairly quickly and
created the program to now tell this
light what to do and we told it just
very simply turn on and off again did
you try turning it off and on again you
are awesome so this is just I'm just
learning this is fun that is great and
that is the most basic example in the
entire multiverse but it allows you to
tinker and allows you to get started and
my boys are eating this stuff up right
and now we're creating circuits that
move the lights and animate them and you
can create light boards and you can do
all that kind of stuff in in our case
here on the show we're gonna be creating
a controller for Telestream Wirecast
using the digi spark that's going to
allow us to control it using these push
buttons so it needs it's so cool
so pick yours up go to cap 5 TV slash
digi
spark and you can get started on being a
maker just doing symbols you know we're
just getting started
love it and most simple code in the
multiverse
