i'm sascha through madison here the top
stories from the category 5 TV news room
android or cody boxes allow users to
stream subscription content such as
Premier League football and blockbuster
films free of charge the box itself
isn't illegal but after an 18-month
investigation against Bryan
middlesbrough council thinks selling
them preloaded with the ability to view
copyrighted material is the Middlesboro
businessman appeared briefly at teesside
Magistrates Court on Tuesday afternoon
where he requested a judge hear his case
middlesbrough council brought the
first-ever prosecution relating to the
sale of android or cody boxes speaking
afterwards brians will depress I'm just
standing up for myself I'm going to
fight it mr. Middlesbrough is being
charged with advertising a product to
circumvent technological measures the
two sides spent most of the hearing
arguing over which court the case should
be heard in but ultimately Brian opted
for the crown court I'm going on the
direction of my solicitor who has been
dealing with this fiddle at the last 10
years and he knows the job better than
most people sat in there he said after
the hearing it doesn't matter which
court I go to if I go into the
magistrate magistrates court they've
never dealt with a case like that before
now I would rather go to hire go higher
up the chain to somebody who does know
what they're talking about as all
they're talking about is a gray area and
that great area relates to what can and
can't be watched Legally he says
everyone is interested we might as well
just get it sorted out for good in
courts mr. middlesbrough was granted
unconditional bail ahead of his hearing
on october 27th at Teesside Crown Court
I interested in that because it seems
like like the cable companies who really
don't want Cody which is understandable
because cable companies make money based
on viewership and advertisements
but I also understand how it can be
legal right like it's totally free and
so if it's totally free the people on
the shows don't get paid right they
can't they can't make that money I mean
I guess I know what's it Seymour very
different it's a completely different
world I mean our show our studio you can
download every single episode through
bittorrent and it's provided by the
studio right but we are volunteers we
are volunteers but not and we have bills
to pay right so our model it does not
rely so much on the advertising
commercials then the fact that you would
go through our links to buy the things
that are being advertised right like I
love sting twist yeah I have Cody okay
can I save the software or the box saw
water like I downloaded it on my
computer we're actually Dave downloaded
on his computer I don't know if that's
legal or illegal I probably should have
said it if it's illegal oh no it's the
it's the use of illegal content okay and
that's what they're really trying to
crack down on and it makes sense unlike
category 5 TV network shows that are
provided free and we encourage you to
download them and share them there it's
not free to download other shows
interesting to see how it actually works
will be be telling for sure okay one
week ago the US Federal Drug
Administration approved a device that
could make the lives of those diagnosed
with diabetes much easier there are two
types of diabetes type 1 and type 2 in
the case of type 1 the pancreas doesn't
produce any insulin to regulate the
blood sugar in type 2 either the
pancreas doesn't produce enough or the
body can't utilize what is produced
efficiently those with diabetes need to
carefully regulate their blood sugar and
if they don't it could be fatal for
years companies around the world have
been developing a system where blood
glucose levels are continuously
monitored reducing the highs and the
lows patients may suffer throughout the
day dubbed the artificial pancreas the
device would further ensure the safety
of people with diabetes as
sensor called the continuous glucose
monitor is placed under the patient's
skin and measures the blood glucose or
sugar levels in the fluid around the
cells a small transmitter then sends the
information to a receiver where it
determines dosing levels that then sends
the information to the insulin pump
which adjusts accordingly the system is
targeted specifically towards those with
type 1 diabetes for years and older but
in the future could be used for those
with type 2 diabetes I love this I love
this especially because I have well two
aunts that have typed too late type 1
diabetes I just read it in the news you
think I would know the difference the
one where your your pancreas doesn't
work at all because their insulin
dependent type 1 and I have a friend who
has a son who is also like that and
every body goes through a rebellious
stage and if you go through her value
stage and you have diabetes and you're
you just want to be against Authority in
some way the best way to control that is
too I guess minimize how much you need
automate the process right so if you
have something implanted in you okay we
all know I am all into like robots
taking over the world but if you have
something that's inside of you that
takes away the ability to possibly
intentionally or maybe unintentionally
do something wrong with your insulin
that is great news because people can
under duress or for some reason I don't
know why but not take insulin when they
should or take too much when they
shouldn't this will circumvent all well
in speaking of taking too much what
happens if someone hacks these e cyber
device yes while we're on the topic
pharmaceutical firm Johnson &amp; Johnson
has warned that one of into one of its
insulin pumps for diabetics is at the
risk of being hacked causing an overdose
the firm said the vulnerability
concerned is the OneTouch ping pump
which is only sold in the US and canada
Johnson &amp; Johnson says that there have
been no reported attacks and that the
risk was extremely low but nevertheless
the risk is there the company says that
users of the Animus OneTouch ping pump
can take precautions such as not using
the pumps remote and programming the
device to limit the maximum dose yikes
scary when lives are on the line really
great news that they ahead of the game
gave us a warning and gave us
precautions against so thank you there
need to be regulations put into place
that specify the security that is
required by these devices because
companies that are not security savvy
are releasing technologies that are
dangerous if compromised it's true I
just noticed the picture on that news
story and I really like that girl's
nails you were on a side note she's
distracted she's like oh this totally
new and ready oh my little bit of pink I
only have one bottle of nail polish my
toenails have always been the same color
this is crazy oh dear okay Nvidia's
driverless car learns from observing
humans I don't know if that's a good
idea nvidia calls their prototype
vehicle bb-8 and it's a lincoln MKZ
where I'm kz depending on where you're
viewing while you can pick up a lincoln
that's loaded with near autonomous
driving features nvidia shut them all
down in their test vehicles they wanted
the car to use its neural network to
actually figure out how to drive that
meant observing human drivers on the
road hmmm they mounted cameras to other
test vehicles and then took them out on
the road the video footage they recorded
was then handed over to the bb-8 so that
the AI could analyze it and figure out
how to reproduce the behaviors that
observed the results are pretty
impressive while bb-8 mows down a
traffic cone at the start of the video
release last week
but it handles plenty of real-world
situations including driving on dirt
roads and driving in the dark with ease
again it's doing all this without ever
being explicitly told anything like how
to identify the edge of a road or what
another car looks like that part school
learning from people drivers isn't great
firm me only because I watch them on the
roads and think that they don't have a
clue hey 11 common gripe in the 21st
century is that nothing is built to last
anymore even complex expensive computers
seem to have a relatively short shelf
life nowadays however one computer in a
small auto shop auto repair shop in
Poland has survived the last 25 years
against all odds well I know the
computer in question here is a Commodore
64 commodore c64 that has been balancing
drive shafts nonstop for a quarter of a
century the c64 see looks like it would
fit right into a scene from fallout 4
and has even survived in nasty flood
this commodore 64 contains a few
homemade aspects how few homemade
aspects however the old computer uses a
special waveform generator and vibration
sensor in order to measure changes in
pressure acceleration temperature strain
or force by converting them to elect an
electrical charge the c64 see interprets
these signals to help balance the drive
shafts in vehicles the commodore 64 was
released in january nineteen eighty two
and still holds the title for being the
best-selling computer of all time it was
for sure my first computer when I look
back at that I feel like that's exactly
what my computer looked like when I was
right now all you need is to throw a
pizza box on the side yes I love love it
okay google has eventually entered the
hardware game which means some seer
is competition for companies like Apple
Google's new phone called pixel was
first teased last month and yesterday
marked the official release date the
campaign is now rolling out across the
six major markets where the phone will
first be available the United States
Australia Canada Germany India and the
United Kingdom during Google's launch
event yesterday for the pixel a VR
headset and several other devices google
CEO sundar Pichai said that the time is
finally right for the company to enter
the product space by bringing together
google's artificial intelligence
software with a sleekly designed
hardware he says we are evolving from a
mobile first to an AI first world big
thanks this week to roy w nash the
albuquerque turkey and our community of
viewers for submitting stories to us if
you found a new story you would like to
send email to newsroom at category 5 TV
for all your tech news with a slight
linux bias visit the category 5 TV news
room at newsroom category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room I'm Sasha
dramatis and I'm back
