Happy New Year everybody welcome to
category five technology TV this is
episode number 485 for Wednesday the 4th
of January 2017 it's so nice to have you
here Jeff first episode of 27 uh first
episode of 2017 that's the theme song
yeah my holidays
do we want to get into it I was sick I
had everything go wrong but you know
what it was good for the kids we had a
great time with the kids and that to me
was all that really mattered pretty much
sounds like my holidays we haven't had a
hospital trip in there because things
were just so bad yeah but yeah I enjoyed
it two weeks off good I enjoyed time
with family yeah excellent excellent
that's really what it's about so
absolutely tonight we've got a great
show in store for you and it's gonna be
a kind of a plethora of features tonight
we're gonna be looking at a VESA mount
that is going to take your computer
display and allow you to stand it
upright just like a normal computer
monitor or lay it down as a low profile
it's called a limbo stand it's gonna
actually lay down your monitor it's
perfect for settings like this here in a
studio yes or you know we're gonna look
at some other use cases as well but
think about your kitchen counter if you
have a touchscreen computer how perfect
would it be if you can lay it right down
and use it while you eat your cereal you
have a screen computer in your kitchen
no I'm just saying you could why not
because you can don't spill it on your
computer please yeah after that we're
gonna be looking at the nest thermostat
they say it can save you a ton of money
we want to find out how that's even
possible
I'm a tree thermostat now is is that not
the one that had issues with security in
the past we might even talk about that
dr. Tom welcome to our new 2017 set
we're gonna call this studio D version
4.0 if you haven't changed since being
within well we had studio D a and then
we had the green screen then we have the
interview set and this is our fourth
iteration so all right then yeah there
you have it and speaking of new set we
got kind of sick of having a chador made
us way over there on the green screen so
Sasha how are ya
great hi everybody yes we're all on one
scream how did we do that through the
magic of television and new tables right
and standing camera standing yes and
it's like we can move around and stop
that's exciting
you know it's funny I'm a little bit
afraid that they can reach each other
when you see me step back like this
that's me moderating the conversation my
initial reaction was now everybody will
know how short I am and I think my
subconscious like actually works to the
point where I forgot my boots and now
I'm wearing like there we go Sasha and
this will give me a nice like leg
workout - yeah stories recovering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom the
UK government is cracking down on sites
selling fraudulent degrees the
manufacturer manufacturer of the iPhone
hopes to replace their humans human
workers with robot drone deliveries are
so 2016 now Amazon wants to make the
whole warehouse fly Kingston is pushing
the envelope with the release of their 2
terabyte USB flash drives and don't
blink the leaf ii has already happened
these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is category 5
technology TV welcome to the show this
is category 5 TV and I'm Robbie Ferguson
surrounded me tonight Jeff Weston hello
Sasha tour made us weird like I can see
you this time yeah we're not looking
like crane in our next looking over and
everything you're like I'm part of the
team I know there's gonna be a lot of
fun folks hey comment below tell us what
you think of the new set this is kind of
our first iteration of it as we kind of
just pull everything together and see
how things are gonna work now we've got
bells on the set we don't because yours
work you gave me a broken Bell there we
go
we don't yet know what they're for so if
you've got ideas in the chat room sasha
was thinking maybe you know there's some
crutch words that I use sometimes
through the show and you know if Jeff
and Sasha catch me on it then
maybe they get a couple points and at
the end of the show I got a like play
like Mad Libs or something I don't know
who knows
hey post your comments though you guys
have any idea it could be every time I
mispronounce a city or town in the UK oh
my goodness we'll never get through the
show like what's that Bell that we keep
hearing I think it's a new drinking game
I think for today's show we should ding
the bell every time we catch Sasha
thinking that she's off camera because
she's never been on camera the whole
time right
it could happen folks it could happen
well welcome to the show we've got the
chat room up nice to see you if you're
not already joining us in the chat room
get on to freenode you can connect to
IRC freenode dotnet and our chat room is
called simply category-five and of
course if you're not sure how to do all
that you can just head on over to
category-five dot TV slash chat or you
can go down to the footer and you'll see
the community chat room there lots of
ways to get connected in the chat room
during a live show and of course there
are folks that are either are waiting to
connect with you as well throughout the
week mm-hmm everybody have nice new
years amazing anything exciting do it
I got a juicer that's it that's my god
you got your juicer I got my how about
you Jeff nope nothing Excel I got I'm
getting into Beca knows that I'm trying
to learn like I'm making hobbies out of
things that I should know like soldering
okay being able to create projects I'm
doing a lot of home repairs and things
like that of little electronic devices
the kids are damaging headphones my
daughter pulled one of the cables out of
one of her headphones and I pulled it
apart right then and there I've got a I
saw your battery-powered soldering iron
and so I can get one of those which we
actually incidentally carry in our shop
shop category-five dot TV but with that
I don't have to mess around I don't have
to get everything out Becca will tell
you that I've got my kind of soldering
station on ready for it
and you know I pull I pulled it out and
right there and then soldered my
daughter's headphones so she was all
impressed and so I'm doing very very
simple little things like that but Becca
got me a build-your-own motor kit Moo's
I'm gonna be actually creating a motor
from like you've got the magnetic wire
it's a spool it's not a motor I've got
to build it myself
but it started with da Vinci little boat
here that is I did yeah yeah I mean it's
a simple build but when you're building
it it's about learning the the the
intelligence behind the design of this
particular right and it was you know
hard to believe that this guy who also
painted the Mona Lisa designed the first
like paddlewheel boat right and it's
pretty neat so see what I found the
interesting about the boat is its on the
table never seen it before I walk in I'm
like oh how's work Bluetooth sorry Jeff
14 hundredths it was the first boat ever
it's a boat well it wasn't the first
boat ever it was the first paddlewheel
boat it was up until then it was all the
side rows the rows right so now it's
like okay this is like a foot paddle
boat right with paddle wheels on the
side and they're interconnected through
mechanisms so that they both spin at the
same speed or you can mechanisms word of
the day is that we're gonna use that one
to do now you're just gonna have to
throw mechanisms into the middle of a
chat about nest mmm yeah but it has no
mechanisms it's a smart thermostat you
solve on mechanisms of the man and
that's how it's gonna go speaking of
mechanisms tonight we've got the limbo
monitor stand we're looking at the limbo
monitor stand from Peugeot Mart it's the
sl1 Oh - that's your search query but
you can get on over to our website and
and check it out we sell it through
Amazon Kath
dot TV / limbo and what it allows you to
do is take a standard computer monitor
and change the form factor altogether
lay it down on its back I don't know if
you've ever really wanted that Jeff I
can think of a couple of scenarios
obviously right here at the studio it
just makes sense to have a touchscreen
monitor laying down now as far as the
functions of it could you use it for
literally any monitor anything from 15
inches up to 28 inches I would assume
but I mean I've got what a 27-inch
monitor on here this is a flat screen
27-inch and it supports that just fine
see I'm thinking I realize Mac is a bad
word but I bought my wife a 27-inch Mac
for Christmas oh and other times when it
might make sense for her to lay it down
well yeah and so with our desk yeah
we've got I think it's 21 inches of
clearance between the shelves but if I
could remove the the base - oh okay and
just have it angled slightly I could fit
it in there where she has her laptops so
I'm wondering shot but I don't know if
it'd be compatible with Mac well that's
oh yeah if it has the best amount on the
back and we'll look at that
it supports 75 by 75 100 by 100 and 100
by 200 millimeter so get your measuring
tape out look for those four holes on
the back of the monitor or the back of
the computer in this case and you'll
you'll see there may be a 100 by 100 if
it's a little bit heavier it might be
100 by 200 so it's important that as you
order this that you are that you already
kind of pre know what best amount you're
looking for because you don't want to
accidentally order a 75 by 75 and then
find out you've got 100 by 100 right
it's not going to fit okay I bet you
though if you did order it you could
return it easily on Amazon very helpful
but you probably find that you want it
now you want it now you want it now and
so you don't want to delay things I've
got just an old monitor here that we've
got kicking around at the studio Jeff
we're gonna actually set this baby up
perfect with ergo Mart's SL 102 the
limbo monitor stand now one of the
things that you see with a standard
traditional monitor stand this is just a
think vision
pretty traditional monitor I like these
monitors because you can turn them
vertical so that works really well for
me as I'm coding it makes it so that
it's kind of a form factor of a piece of
paper rather than a landscape right so
there you go that's the stand that comes
with it but as far as profile goes look
at where my monitor is lying right here
and this is a 27-inch now take this 19
inch that's as low as of the profile as
you're gonna get that's not low in a
scenario like a studio here now if I had
that right in front of me it would be
obstructing your view of this right but
think about lines so now you're just
obstructing this yeah
that's that's it yeah think about a live
performance where quite often you've got
the soundboard at the back you've got a
couple computers running everything and
the monitors are quite often obstructing
the view of the stage true right would
it be nice in that scenario to lay it
flat on the desk yes without having to
go through the process of having a desk
custom-built and all this kind of crazy
stuff here's an option that just allows
you to throw it on there it's easy to
install you're gonna find tonight we're
gonna do this in the matter of moments
exciting and also another scenario I
mentioned and you laughed at me but
kitchen counters and kitchen counter
instead of a lot of people just use
their phone or their or their like
tablet for recipes because I I use my
recipes 100% off of the internet that
would be perfect but if you use a
computer a lot and a lot of times I have
seen computer monitors sitting on the
kitchen counter like this ya know like
we're talking a decent-sized kitchen
with that in the corner and a keyboard
and everything but with a touchscreen
you've got the capability of you know
you've got your YouTube videos if you
want to watch things it plays a bigger
function than just a tablet or something
like that right so so let's get the back
off of here you see this as a vessel 100
by 100 if we were to measure we would
see that it is 100 millimeters by 100
millimeters so this simply has a couple
screws here we're gonna lay that down
like this we lay it flat Jeff so that
we're not going to drop the monitor when
the stand comes off of it that is wise
okay got my handy blackened deck
Dule we're just gonna pull that right
off of here simplest upgrade for a
computer screen ever thank you sir you
got that I got it
did I get that one out all the way no
you did not almost there we go okay you
can just set that aside all right who's
got nails I have a pen just look at easy
to open stuff there we go you're
unboxing for the day
bubble wrap it's our goal Mart's SL 102
limbo stand and that's what it looks
like just like that so with the monitor
on it it can stand upright right and
this will move up and down you can see
that there's a mechanism here to
actually actually so this can be moved
up and down depending on the size of the
monitor whether you want it to be
vertical or horizontal and it can be
turned on the fly okay it also includes
a magnetic wrench to adjust that tighten
it up and then that can just be stuck to
the the frame in order to keep it safe
okay
what is the rating as far as weight for
that bolt because it's just just a bolt
oh for the bowl yeah well it's a it's a
what do you call that a lock nut okay
the the stand itself in lowest in its
lowest profile will hold anything up to
about 28 pounds okay in its up right now
does have a low center of gravity but
you'd probably want to be anywhere from
about 15 to 20 pounds in the larger if
you're gonna have it upright and when
it's laying down obviously right to be a
little bit larger so let's set that
there I think I threw the screws over
here somewhere
just toss them aside I did too oh I love
this new set there that it those are
screws that wasn't just a random little
yeah that's all there is to it there's
just four screws that came with it so
Jeff we're gonna just put that down here
all right
I can't believe you got me on that the
unintentional word of the Dame you keep
using it so now they found one
subliminal message Ange every week I'm
gonna have to work on that that's true
okay get that all lined up didn't you
know to put a screw in there well if I
had it lined up properly it would
probably help you get me laughing too
much well that's what we do well on the
show have a good time
yes Father there your father he's kind
of get those in with your thumb and then
we use the screwdriver to tighten them
up he drops the screw there we go it's
fully articulating to the side there
this will be a two-hour show yep just
waiting for the screws dear our
five-minute install yeah okay I love
this I really do like this idea and this
is a good high-quality stand that is a
little screwed up this is a great little
tool and you know what I like about it
is that it takes four double A batteries
it's not a proprietary oh nice right so
if the batteries ever die on you now I
use rechargeables obviously but if they
eco-friendly yeah if they can't ever if
they can't be recharged they're at the
end of their life you can just replace
them with new lithium right there we go
that's it we're done Wow
so simple yeah okay so the first thing
we want to do obviously this is kind of
sliding around you can see that so we
want to tighten that up so that's where
the wrench comes in so we want to kind
of align that with the base of our
monitor just a little bit extended
beyond that and then it's all about the
base over and over again have you seen
the Star Wars version no it's all about
the base no rebels no
nice yep another music video no time at
all so there you have it the limbo stand
from ergo Mart you can see right away
that it is a slightly lower profile
absolutely upright so we're not six
inches off of the desk it's sitting like
that it's good and stable and then this
is what I love about it nice
that's lovely profile laying it down we
can take it down to what does the
specification say whoa fifteen twenty
two and a half degrees why do you have
so if you look at that
you know that's as low as you're going
to get it with that particular monitor
now I could actually slide this down
loosen that that lock nut slide this
down a little bit and it's going to give
me even a closer to the desk form factor
as far as your touchscreen goes that's
gonna work really really well and I like
that that's cool it's available a cat5
dot TV slash limbo and maybe you can
think of some great ideas for where
where that could be used I think maybe
that would work for what do you think I
feel like at my office at work yeah it's
so adjustable so you think about your
wife's Mac right I so actually would not
work on her Mac it wouldn't know why is
that because looking at the back of her
Mac it's uh just the round plot the fan
file and it was move a piece of plastic
back of the housing off no so I would
does it feel warranty are you serious
yeah well yeah what is it a Mac it's uh
it's an iMac iMac yep I mount oh they
have one all they go let's see what it
says it is see if you take a look at
that you need an adapter oh okay
it has an adapter available for it yeah
okay but it is part of that assembly see
that okay you can just do a quick google
image search for iMac VESA de sá but the
one we're looking at tonight this is the
Lim
from ogle Mart it's the SL 102 inning
check it out at cat 5 dot TV / limbo
there you have it
nice let's set that baby aside well
well that's all we've got for the show
tonight no we've got other fun exciting
things what do you got for us now did
you hear about the the guy who confused
facial recognition technology I did not
hear about this one okay so I have to
show you the picture okay and I will
show it to everybody else as well okay
do you see a face is this like one of
those things where if you go slightly
cross-eyed no do you see face slash okay
I see what looks like like a whole bunch
of tiny little sir way to zoom in on
this I can kind of go like this there
well it's not really clear really and
you're getting out of focus no face -
this it's like squares
it looks like didja pat like the the
camel that doesn't repeat what a
traditional camel with them right it's
all digital pattern what so wait a
search query so I can bring this up on
the screen for them how can i how can we
see this thing I got it from a news
article on Mashable but it's what would
you call it it was part of the hyper
face project hi to my face so it was a
guy from Berlin he was an artist and he
wanted to find a way to mess with the
facial recognition algorithms in facial
recognition technology so he came up
with this pattern that facial
recognition algorithms actually
determined that this is a real face but
because this pattern isn't in the system
it can't figure out what the face is
really yeah so confuse the heck out of
the the the facial recognition technical
recognition which is meant for
two-factor authentication
yeah enhance security to let you into
buildings and things like that and he's
able to take an image like that and turn
it into and it's recognized as a face
and does it let it doesn't recognize it
as the face no not the pretty it's not a
face for actually like breaking into a
system
yeah but it confuses it it's saying this
is a face but I can't figure out what
the face is how is that even possible I
have no clue but it works I saw this I
think it was today and I was like this
is amazing hey you know what what sorry
go ahead
no no no you I was thinking it reminds
me of do you remember the news story
that you did about was it okay Google
okay and then there to bring up websites
and write all kinds of things right it
was like an obfuscated or just messed up
bot voice that would be commands out of
this gibberish noise so in the phone it
all react to it with okay Google right
you remember that no it reminds me of
her remember your arms reach this time I
remember it I'm gonna check back and see
and make sure it was me who did that new
story with you what it's saying here is
that these patterns appear as facial
features and then the visualization
software interprets as a face but
overloads and over saturates the
algorithm algorithms causing the system
to break down to break down yeah it so
it crashes yeah oh that doesn't sound
too good
no it's saying you can even print it I
like on clothes so you walk you with the
shirt and just stand there in front of
the camera be like this is me just to
break the machines just to break the
machines okay going back to your Mac
leach and x1 says everything that is Mac
requires an adapter yes
what gives with that Jeff it is true
proprietary stuff I know hey this is
category five technology TV you're
watching episode number 485 and this
live broadcast is going forth on the 4th
of January 2017 Happy New Year everybody
this is our first broadcast from studio
D and our new set here we're calling it
version 4.0 I think that works
yep so welcome to the show hey get us in
the
room make sure you comment below if
you're watching this on demand give us a
thumbs up if you're watching on YouTube
we really appreciate that and hey share
it with your friends and certainly if
you're watching live it helps us out if
you later also watch it on YouTube just
bring it up and and that counts us for
that that view when you're watching live
that doesn't obviously increment our
count when it comes to our YouTube views
I appreciate everybody that's been
watching on YouTube it does make a
difference absolutely we're starting to
see those numbers really climb for the
longest time I stayed away from you two
we stayed with our own broadcast
mechanisms and everything and finally
just decided to give in and switch over
to YouTube and it's been really good to
us so appreciate everybody watching
through that platform Jeff Weston Jemma
you're building a brand new beautiful
website what aren't you you're terrible
actor what this where acting comes into
play you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
that's true how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are gonna get
unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roots are your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash dream host
just don't put that on the papers are
just don't do it but hey
it's a great deal folks best deal you're
gonna find five dollars and change per
month go to cap five dot TV slash
DreamHost sastra made us yeah you don't
have a newsroom anymore you've got
studio set where we're just kind of
hanging out just kind of hanging out
here you don't have any pictures to put
up or anything like that I thought you
know we could maybe get a like a
flat-screen TV or something if the
donations say hey that's something we
want to do right so if that's something
that you'd like to see we can take down
the clock and put up a flat screen TV
and Sasha's news pictures could be up
there and little video perhaps this week
you could just mine out the news stories
I'm thinking so what do we got we've got
you mentioned a couple of different yeah
my croissant
exactly Amazon yeah yeah see that's good
with fraudulent certificates I don't
even know how you would do that he's got
it exactly there's the me oh and adding
an extra second I was thinking you
mentioned the clock it could be really
fun to like take a show do it live but
disjointed then put it all together for
the little Easter eggs that people watch
you know it it'd be a lot more
economical to just take down the clock
and change the time every couple minutes
and then edit out that moment but not as
techy fun mmm right what happens if we
run a little late starting we're gonna
change the clock so it always season 10
and here we are on our new set 2017 it's
pretty laid back it's a lot of fun so
hey if we're a couple minutes late it's
like how we've done one hour and 20
minute shows I know it just happens and
we're not cutting it off in an hour if
we if we decide things to talk about yes
exactly it's always something to talk
about beacon of Sashadhar made us I'm
gonna jump over to you and you can tell
us what's what's going on
all right I'm Sasha tomatoes in here to
talk
for the week of January 4th 2017 more
than 40 fraudulent websites have been
shut down in a major crackdown on the
sale of fake degrees the sites closed
included those selling authentic looking
certificates using the names of real
British universities others were
providers offering distance learning
courses but were not valid UK degree
awarding bodies an agency set up to
investigate the issue higher education
degree data tracker or ahead said it had
reports of more than 90 bogus
institutions the investigation found
fake University of Kent degree
certificates on sale in China for only
500 pounds the government announced a
crackdown on bogus providers in June
2015 with the aim of prosecuting and
taking down fraudulent websites head has
now asked new graduates not to take
photographs with their real degree
certificates in case they inadvertently
aid fraudsters
a spokesman spokesperson for the
Department for Education said degrees
fraud cheats both genuine learners and
employers so we've taken decisive action
to crack down on those seeking to profit
from it
I understand asking people not to take a
picture with their degree or it's me
holding my certificate late serious
seriously I've like a million siblings I
and I have a lot of friends and I feel
like every single time any of us
graduate anything even if it's like a
new level of luminosity or
like it could be anything it's always
like a picture taken my house google
analytics course graduation certificates
printed on my wall at work right I took
the course I went through the step by
step questionnaire exactly it's gonna be
so hard to catch these people did you
know I am ESET Canada sales company of
the year this year that's a side note I
know ah oui what is it partner of the
year I mean oh my god but I'm thinking
about certificates and this
certification that's true I added to the
footer of the website 2016 is the year
super yeah
now I mean on a serious note for this it
does mean that people could buy for five
hundred pounds a university degree that
we cost them otherwise tens of thousands
of pounds here's the thing
they're only shutting down institutions
that print fake certificates for real or
seemingly real universities that use
names that are very very close to the
real university name right because it's
fraudulent it's like taking money and
making fake money that looks just like
real money
well they'll stop they'll stop that but
they're not stopping monopoly from
printing monopoly money and Canadian
Tire for a Canadian Tire money because
it's obviously fake so it's important to
note that you can still buy
certifications from Starfleet Gordon -
notes really yeah you don't even have to
go to the Academy Starfleet Academy it
doesn't exist
apparently according to the government
but I might just graduate from you know
somebody should start a Starfleet
Academy University and doesn't have
anything to do with anything just I'm
gonna start an education facility and
call it Starfleet yeah I do Star Trek
has it they have a course in either a
college or a university around here that
is how to survive a zombie apocalypse is
the name of course what it's wilderness
training its wilderness training but
they call it how to survive a zombie
apocalypse because they know more people
will sign up that's cool Oh with
marketing and surf lead Academy we get
more people excited to go it's like
school it's like flight school or
something yeah something like that or
like maybe like if you're into like
stellarium x' and things like that I
don't know what you call yourself if
you're certified as stellaris a stellar
s just stellar
you're super stellar funky first dollar
Foxconn the Taiwanese manufacturing
giant behind Apple's iPhone and numerous
other major electronics devices aims to
automate a way of vast majority of its
human employees die jipang the general
manager fox khan's animation
Committee says the company has a
three-phase plan in place to automate
its Chinese factories using software and
in-house robotics units known as Fox
BOTS the first phase of Foxconn
automation plans involve replacing the
work that is either dangerous or
involves repetitious labor humans are
unwilling to do the second phase
involves improving efficiency by
streamlining production lines to reduce
the number of excess robots in use and
the third and final phase involves
automating entire factories with only a
minimal number of workers assigned for
production logistics testing and
inspection processes the company can now
produce around 10,000 Fox spots a year
JPEG says all of which can be used to
replace human labor in the long term
robots are cheaper than human labor
however the initial investment can be
costly it's also difficult expensive and
time consuming to program robots to
perform multiple tasks or to program a
robot to perform tasks tasks outside its
original function that is why in labor
markets like China human workers have
thus far been cheaper than robots to
stay competitive though Foxconn
understands it will have to transition
to automation as of last year Foxconn
employed as many as 1.2 million people
making it one of the largest employees
in the world more than 1 million of
those workers reside in China often at
elaborate city light campuses that house
and feed employees by replacing humans
with robots Foxconn would relieve itself
of any issues stemming from its
treatment of workers without having to
actually improve living and working
conditions or increase wages but in
doing so it will ultimately end up
putting hundreds of thousands if not
millions of people out of work do you
have any questions comments thoughts
concerns yes I like round one fight I'm
hearing it and everything in me is
screaming bad news i I understand that
we are in a world where we want to do
things better and cheaper and all that
kind of stuff but if you're going to
come up with
a completely automated workforce like
putting millions of people out of work I
mean this is just one company yeah when
this catches on what else does I mean
think of the launch company though think
of the auto industry if they can make
this work for producing things like say
iPhones and completely automate a like
something small like that magic putting
together cars where you don't need
people anymore
the mass impact this would have globally
I mean you're gonna see unemployment go
through the roof and there I mean the
fact is you're not gonna be able to
recoup those jobs there's not it's not
going to be like well for every robot we
make we're gonna need ten more people in
manufacturing over the robots because
eventually they're gonna get the robots
making robots and we're just in a
situation where somebody's gonna have to
be neo and wipe out the computer right I
mean I see I'm also like my I'm a union
guy so this hurts my thought on it is
that a lot of times and I'm not saying
every time but a lot of times especially
in countries where they have their
employees living at the factories that
they work at the conditions are and if
you're not willing to bring that up to
standard it is better to let those
people go even if it means forcing some
sort of social change in a way what is
right the worker the solution yes but
yeah are people willing to actually pay
the money toward the product that would
then funnel down to improving the lives
of the people making it I'm thinking
about like really cheap clothing
companies to just automate that then
those poor people wouldn't be stuck
inside sweatshop I think we have to be
very careful though that the solution
does not become replacing human people
human people the solution is not to
replace them with robots yes but that
you know but you look at it and you say
well the the working environment is
deplorable the people Bob Kay 54 is
reminding us that Foxconn the company
that we're talking about who
manufactures iPhones actually installed
netting so that people would
not be able to commit suicide but that
is a sad fact it is but that's a lot of
that is because of the working
conditions I mean this is a whole social
economical with robots does not solve
the issue no makes it worse I don't know
if it makes it worse absolutely does you
you've got a million workers that
chances are making no more than a
hundred bucks us a month in wages right
you're gonna tell all of them sorry we
realize that you're below the poverty
line and that we you know we pay you
peanuts and it's horrible working
conditions and a lot of you don't even
want to live anymore because of the
working conditions so we're just gonna
replace you so you have nothing these
are people who are being enslaved step
above being slaves so change global
working conditions that does a decent
job best thing to do but let me tell you
no person is going to choose to be
working inside a factory in those
conditions if there is an option at
something better and you own a lot of
cases there isn't isn't an option what
are your thoughts
comment below get us in the chatroom I
don't know you know where's the line I
know I can't this is not a solution I
think this is probably one of the most
polarizing news stories we could ever
have because the social economic impact
right I agree that these people need a
job but I just want a significant
severance package I know I just say look
we're gonna save X number of dollars
over the next 20 years
here's your wages for those 20 years and
let's give you a you know two hundred
thousand dollars to get you started I
know always these crazy stories out
there but I remember seeing I think was
like CBC or something but an interview
with somebody who was in their early 20s
who had literally never been outside
they were born in the factory they
worked in they had never seen the light
of day you sure that's a human rights
violation yeah you don't say but but I
did say yeah it's so hard being here in
Canada where we're so blessed to have
such freedom and such laws that protect
and the rights of human beings so to see
that kind of thing happening is just
crazy let's move on do we have any happy
news stories well we have some Amazon
news all right guys like this Amazon is
good okay
Amazon has filed a patent for a massive
flying a massive flying warehouse which
equipped with fleets of drones that
deliver goods to key locations carried
by an airship the warehouses would visit
places Amazon expects demand for certain
goods to boom it says one one use could
be near sporting events or festivals
where they would sell food or souvenirs
to spectators the patent also envisages
a series of support vehicles that would
be used to restock the flying structures
the flight the filing significantly
expands on Amazon's plans to use drones
to make deliveries earlier this month it
made the first its first commercial
delivery using a drone via the test
scheme running in Cambridge in the
documents detailing the scheme Amazon
said to combustion the combination of
drugs not the combustion the combination
of drones and flying warehouses or
airborne fulfillment centers would
deliver goods much more quickly than
those stationed at its ground-based
warehouses also it said the drones
descending from the afcs which would
crew veut cruise around and hover at
altitudes of up to 45,000 feet would use
almost no power as they glided down to
make deliveries the patent lays out a
comprehensive scheme for running a fleet
of ASCS and drones it suggests smaller
airships could act as shuttles taking
drone supplies and even workers to and
from the larger afcs
amazon's patent was filed in late 2014
but has only now come to light thanks to
analyst Zoe Leavitt from CB insight
who've recently unearthed the documents
so that means you can get your stuff
real fast from Amazon if it makes sense
that at a Star Trek convention that they
would just this would just fly down from
the sky right into my hands see and as
you're reading the news what I'm
picturing is Nick Fury standing on this
floating device in the air owned by
Amazon nice
with Mark Zuckerberg having his Jarvis
programming talked behind him and
sitting there thinking I'm pretty sure
this is the Avengers I can't wait to see
what this thing looks like yeah all
right
kingston digital incorporated the flash
memory affiliate of kingston technology
company incorporated the independent
work world leader in memory products
announced yesterday that their data
traveller ultimate generation terabyte
GT the world's highest capacity USB
flash drive data traveler ultimate GT
offers up to two terabytes of storage
space and with USB 3 performance amazing
you imagine two terabytes terabytes
small little thing yeah perfect come on
now my dad a traveler is 32 gigabytes
terabytes power users will have the
ability to soar massive amounts of data
in small form-factor like up to 70 hours
of 4k video that is mind-blowing data
traveller ultimate GT is rugged as well
with a zinc alloy metal casing for shock
resistance this is the next step in
portable solutions for storing and
transferring huge files data traveller
ultimate GT ships in february and will
be available in one terabyte and two
terabyte capacities it is backed by
five-year warranty free technical
support and legendary kingston
reliability i feel like that would make
it so easy to back everything up you
could easily backup all your thousand
just have to yeah you ain't crazy I
think this is totally incredible
but what's going through my head is 2
terabytes on a flash drive how long is
that going to take the load it's USB 3
so we're talking not not bad at all
three gigabits a second but still that
could take a while if you've I mean
depending on what you got on there I
mean we're not talking necessarily text
files if you got two terabytes chances
are you filling it with video on what
not sure what you're gonna do at one
video at a time you're not necessarily
going to fill two terabytes with a video
all at one there will be somebody who
will do it
I love like the Kingston stuff is coming
out like hard and fast and strong from a
time how many gigs was our our entire
torrents for cat5 our torrents let's
take a look at torrent dot category five
dot TV and what you'll find is that over
the course of seasons because the
quality of the show became higher and
higher and now being 1080p the files get
bigger and bigger so torrent dot
category five dot TV and I'm sorry that
I can't bring this up tonight on your
screen that's because of the new set and
things were just kind of getting
configured and set up but you can bring
it up tour category five dot TV season
one was nine point six eight gigabytes
oh so this is like I'm looking at it
going I was thinking oh you can get them
all on one flash flash drive out pretty
much three hundred and sixty one gigs of
video altogether see that's amazing you
pick up one of the kingston flash drive
and be like i've got a little cat v with
me there you go and you can download it
right from our site bring it on vacation
exactly well on the beat paul beyond the
beaches of Hawaii on I'm gonna watch
season one don't do it me with a webcam
in my basement have been stepped up a
little bit since then technologically we
have two terabyte flash drives now
that's crazy and wasn't it like 30 years
ago Bill Gates said nobody would need
more than 640 K yeah yeah we roll the
patent is extended lately so so people
have been doing weird things
remember that time they're like nobody
has any new ideas we'll just closed the
Patent Office
what done no remember no I will find out
exactly when it happened before I was
born
yes okay that's why I don't remember it
right do you have more for one more
story the addition of an extra second to
2016 didn't cause too much tech chaos
but it did lead to some websites being
difficult to reach for about ninety
minutes a leap second is an additional
second added at the end of a month to
compensate for the fact that the Earth's
rotation is slowing down very gradually
and can also be altered by major seismic
events and thus what's out of sync with
atomic clocks the International earth
rotation and reference system
stems service calculates when one is
necessary and so far 27 leap seconds
have been added the only five in the
past 18 years all at the end of June or
December
the second is officially added to the
coordinated Universal Time UTC used as a
reference by most computer systems by
having an out-of-the-ordinary 23 hours
59 minutes and 60 seconds while the
process is simple in concept and comes
with six months of warning it can
potentially cause problems with
computers while many machines work from
remote time signals which either
literally broadcast the extra second or
send an instruction to add a second some
simply can't cope with the idea that a
minute doesn't have 60 seconds and needs
manual intervention popular science
notes that solutions include pausing the
clocks for the final second or literally
slowing down the clocks over the course
of the day to spread the extra time out
so it has no significant effect
according to cloud fair CloudFlare sorry
the extra second caused one of the
numbers in its software to turn negative
something that the software wasn't
designed to cope with because the code
writers worked on the sensible enough
idea that time can't run backwards hard
part of cloud flares dns resolution
process involves using time codes to
generate a random number a step which
fell apart when a negative number was
thrown into the mix right that's crazy
fortunately this only affected 0 0.2% of
DNS queries and overall fewer than 1% of
attempted visits to CloudFlare clients
through up error messages it affected
you will do a Whois query on CDN .
zechariah comm guess who hosts it
CloudFlare rarely so our site assets
uptime robots started telling me hey
something's down oh it's back up oh
something's down oh it's back up so if
you were on our website during that time
our website was up but various assets on
different CDNs kept going down and weird
and like it would be down for like 30
seconds and then back up again huh so
yeah that was and that explains why we
had those issues because I was like what
is going soon here we had just an extra
second no no big deal I was waiting for
the new year's countdown I was waiting
for everybody to go 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
1 Happy New Year
amazing thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight lytx bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our web site from the category-five TV
newsroom i'm stache with your made us
Thank You Sasha this is category 5
technology TV and you will find our
website at triple-double you category 5
TV folks in the chat rooms and Robbie's
blocking the logo there you go you can
also see it here so I think I have it on
mine to you that I hope you having fun
tonight let us know what do you think of
the new set of course we're kind of
working out the kinks and figuring
things out I think it's working fairly
well thanks one sitting so comfortable
Albert R says we need to bring some of
that Linux bias talk some geekery and
tonight we're not actually looking at
Linux tools but what we're looking at is
the nest thermostat so can we say that
it's kind of you know a little bit more
along the tech lines than the political
stuff that we accidentally got into yes
but certainly okay so the nest
thermostat is pretty neat because one of
the things that they claim is that with
this thermostat so simply buying and
replacing your houses thermostat with a
nest thermostat is going to save you
anywhere from about 135 to 140 five
dollars per year which is a big deal now
in Ontario that our Jazz has gone up
significantly wow I didn't even want to
go there how did this get political says
gwd
[Music]
no but it sure I mean it's now costs
more to heat your home and being the
dead of winter I think what Jeff is
trying to say is with the cost savings
you can buy right really cool things
like for example a Star Trek drone PI a
Raspberry Pi Star Trek The Next
Generation bluetooth communicator badge
which you just have no reason to buy
beyond the sheer geekery of it you're
thinking about it I'm trying to come up
with some feel like it would be great to
wear that while you're holding your
certificate from the Starfleet Academy
yes okay so talk about that okay so that
was this not the thing that had the
issues in the past the issues in the
past now security yes security was a
concern at one point and and now with
the current generation of NASA and with
the firmware updates and everything
everything is set up to be very well
encrypted all the communication that
happens between nest the nest servers
the nest servers and your app it's all
done through encrypted connections and
they are using sophisticated encryption
in order to establish all of those
communications the other thing to
consider Jeff is that nest as a
thermostat now this is a smart
thermostat so it monitors things and
learns from your behavior right one of
the things that I love about nest is
that it sees you and it knows not not
visually it's not like facial
recognition kind of thing but more along
the lines of a motion sensor so if you
enter the room it knows hey I'm gonna
turn on the screen because you probably
want to see me
and there's your nest lit up nice but
also it combines that with the motion
sensor technology with the Wi-Fi
compatibility of your phone and will
actually know if you've left the house
this is a less creepy version of the
girlfriend in a box girlfriend in a box
kit I was a box yeah here's the thing
though but using that information
knowing that you've stepped out of the
house now I set a target temperature so
now neste allows me to change between
Faron
and Celsius so we'll say about 74
degrees 75 degrees Fahrenheit can't say
Fahrenheit with a stuffy nose 2020 three
and a half degrees Celsius give or take
and look at warm yeah it's winter we'll
turn it down to 15 in the summer like
kinnison's right I still like it you
know 20 you're wearing a wool jacket
well in here oh yeah I gotta look good
cuz they're standing up oh well what are
you saying I'm not wearing a wool jacket
so with this information so Ness knows
okay you've left the house so now
talking about security yeah it seems
kind of dangerous that your device is
communicating that data back to a server
however keeping in mind that it is
encrypted man-in-the-middle can't get a
hold of that information and we can feel
confident that that information is held
safely okay okay so what does it do for
us that this thermostat now knows that
I've been able to have so it monitors
the app that's in my pocket on my phone
the kind it knows my geolocation and
says okay well you're in the house or
you're near the house so I'm gonna have
the temperature at your desired target
temperature so that's my 23.5 if I leave
the house it sees that the app is
disconnected from the internal Wi-Fi
right it still gives me access through
my mobile Internet or through whatever
Wi-Fi I'm connected to but it it sees
that I've left so then it says okay well
let's look at the motion sensor are
there still people in the house beyond
the person who has the app installed
okay and it uses the motion sensor to
say oh there's still movement so we're
gonna keep at 23.5 degrees so then if
everybody leaves the house this was kind
of cool I went away for a bit of a
Christmas do and nest I pulled it out I
was on the Wi-Fi at a family member's
house pulled it out and it showed me
that it was in Eco mode so having left
the house my nest thermostat has now
disabled my furnace in such a way that
it will stay within the threshold that
is still safe for my plants is still
safe for the animals it's not gonna get
too cold it's also not going to get too
hot but it's saving energy because it
doesn't have to maintain that specific
I'm comfortable at 23.5 hmm but the dogs
are fine at 20 or 17 no if you're not
this fine at 17 and not there the dog
would be fine I'm 17 absolutely the
plants will not die at 17 degrees
Celsius great so with that so now I took
a little bit of a video to show you the
thermostat itself I do like that it
turns on when we approach it but also
something to mention is that it's a lot
smaller than I was expecting the form
factor to be I thought from the from the
marketing material that this was gonna
be about the size of a CD do you get
that impression when you see review
about that big it's about that big it's
really size of a bell
so much much smaller than I was
expecting and in comparison to a CD DVD
it's you can see the the size difference
is quite substantial so it's a lot
smaller the the one thing I don't like
about that is that now it comes with
this back plate but because my original
thermostat was bigger than the nest now
I can see where the previous owners of
the house arrived and I've got this
awful looking now I've got to paint the
whole wall if I want it to look nice or
just play some sort of deck around I
thought about that I think getting some
kind of sticker that I could put behind
it and mount it all on top I have yet to
find one the work thinking is that this
would be really good for landlords with
tenants right because if they could
control remotely the temperature then
they wouldn't have tenants that like
totally pump up the jam in the house and
then leave yeah well then let's take it
one step further because if there are
tenants in the house let them turn on
the temperature and that's fine but yeah
I mean if they leave and the motion
sensor senses that nobody's home it will
adjust the temperature accordingly
that's perfect that said let's say you
do temporary rentals right how ideal is
it that when somebody checks out bring
up your app from the comfort of your
home and it could be on the other side
of you know of Barry and adjust the
temperature because it doesn't need to
be kept warm because nobody's staying
there at the time right so that's pretty
cool so let's get an actual you know
look at this you can scroll through on
the device itself you can turn the
device you can push into to adjust
settings and kind of click OK but what's
interesting about it is the
fact that the app allows you to connect
to your nest thermostat from anywhere in
the world as long as you've got an
internet connection so I've got my phone
here with the app and this is live in
real time so I'm on our studio Wi-Fi
here and yet it sees that my home
dining-room is 23.5 degrees Celsius so
if I click I can see that and I can
actually now I can see that the furnace
right now is on okay so the furnace at
my house because the screen is red I can
see that the furnace is on right now you
can see that little that little line
there just below where it's set to 23.5
see that line that stays static says
that it is currently 23 degrees so I can
adjust that now as I adjust that my wife
at home would actually see that moving
back and forth and adjusting on the
screen hmm it could could be if it
wasn't for the fact that it's me
demonstrating it on the air so I can
actually turn off the furnace by
bringing down the temperature and now
it's 22.5 it's going to detect that hey
the house is already 23 and it's going
to turn off the furnace for those at
home it's gonna wait a couple of moments
to do that oh they're just it just
turned off so the blower on my furnace
is now off that's cool my wife and kids
sitting at home right now the furnace
just turned off for them now it's gonna
turn back on again so I can see the
inside humidity is 33 two percent which
is good and I can adjust that from the
furnace itself but it's nice that I have
that on my display and then I've got the
outside temperature which is kind of
brilliant as well just nice measures the
outside temperature it actually pulls
that because remember this is Wi-Fi
connected right okay it has access to
the weather forecast right that
information is available so I can
actually see what are the conditions is
it raining outside I can see that right
in the app and on the screen of the nest
thermostat because it's a smart
thermostat right so I'm gonna go into
now a couple of settings here at the
bottom you can see okay you can set it
to actually heat cool heat and cool or
Eco mode so I can force it into these
modes so even if I'm home if I don't you
know if I'm curled up in a blanket I can
put it into Eco mode and I can force
that myself
what does Eco mode do well I'm going to
click on settings here and go into my
eco temperatures and you can see that it
will turn it down as low as 15 degrees
Celsius and it will make sure that it's
never any hotter
28 degrees Celsius so that I keep my
plants safe in the in the summer so it
won't get too cold from the
air-conditioner being on too long or too
hot from the air-conditioner being off
right it'll keep things and we had that
happen and it was a shame that we didn't
know because we were at the cottage that
our plants were dying under the heat of
not having the air conditioner on that
was an unfortunate thing so we can avoid
that with our nest so we can now connect
to this from anywhere and adjust the
temperature at home it also works as a
bit of a kind of a warning system
because I can see from that app that you
see on your screen right there I can see
if the temperature drops below a safe
threshold I'll know before I ever have
before it ever happens before it ever
becomes a concern I'll see the
temperature dropping and when it hits 15
degrees I'm gonna know something's wrong
with my furnace this is great for people
who winter away
so these shouldn't winter in Florida or
myself spends the winter in Mexico right
so she has somebody checking right now
on the house all the time just make sure
everything's okay this is one last thing
she has to worry about them checking
she'll always know if the furnace is
working if she were to have this what if
you've got a like a summer vacation home
right for example or a cottage where
you've got nest installed you've got an
air conditioner and you look at your
nest on your app and you say oh the
temperature right now is pretty hot at
the cottage we're gonna hit the road
we're gonna be there in an hour let's
turn on the air conditioner let's get it
cooled down to a comfortable temperature
so that when we arrive it's already set
but yet when we're not there through the
week we can turn it off that's cool
right now the motion back on detection
settings is there like a pet mode where
it doesn't RIBA low a certain height I
you know what honestly I'm not sure how
that works I know when I enter the room
it goes off when my dog who's you know
up a little past my knees comes in it
doesn't go okay it doesn't turn on if
that may just be that your thermostat is
up this high and it's like a high level
thing okay I don't know the technical
end of that how that works but that's
cool that it doesn't get set off by pets
exactly and I knows from you know it's
gonna know if you've been away from the
house for 20 minutes that obviously
there's you know somebody you
away right and you can set that all
yourself so just really quickly looking
at the settings here let's jump in I
really like the fact that you can
control things a lot nicer a lot more
specifically and because of the Eco mode
here when I'm away from the house when
everyone is out of the house it switches
to that mode and it just instantly
starts saving energy so by that now we
did a little bit of a test and I'm not
sure how I would pull that up on here if
I can see my my test on here let's see
no not there but what we did is we ran a
bit of a test to see how it how it
looked as far as energy savings and the
day that I set it set up Eco mode and
then we went to family members house it
shows us the breakdown of our usage and
we were about I would say about an 1/8
maybe 1/10 of of the usage was knocked
off oh so we had already saved about
maybe up to 10% of our our heating bill
that's also day because we weren't home
so we didn't need it to be super
comfortable at home hmm
so there you have it I mean it's it's
pretty simple to setup hey is there
anything that you want to see how easy
is it to install that's a great question
real simple actually and you'll see from
the from the instructions it was
actually it's like a little booklet a
little okay ham flat and you take out
your old thermostat there's only a few
wires there right tells you where to put
them and then it programs itself and
gets everything up and going and you
just follow the prompts for the apt app
and it was in an up I like I don't
half-hour kind of thing so you program
it through the through the app through
the app or on the screen okay so and
it's all it's all there so you can
actually see here let's see if I can do
it in the app I believe I can see the
current wiring so if I go into technical
info here do I see let's see here I just
want to check but there's nothing that's
that's private here equipment here we go
I've got an air filter reminder that
will automatically tell me it has safety
features that will automatically make
sure that the house is always
over four degrees Celsius okay so that
we don't have any kind of issues with
freezing pipes things like that right
see how we set up the so when I when I
hooked everything up it shows me where
to plug everything in this is in the app
okay and it shows once it's connected it
says equipment detected and you saw kind
of pens I was going through this process
I was posting things on Twitter yes
sorry detected and yeah super cool so
there it is so you've got all the
contacts and shows you where to put them
I've got three contacts and that's it
everything else has done over the Wi-Fi
so works really really well so easy to
set up really really neat from a
perspective of saving some money I'm
gonna report back after I would say a
couple of months where we can really see
our energy bill and and how this is
affected things yeah but check it out
you can go over to our website cap five
dot TV slash nest and est and you pick
up one of those or just simply learn
more information about it through the
information that is provided for you
there good times
this is category five technology TV and
hey if you've got some questions about
nest or anything else that you've seen
here tonight make sure you post us a
comment just sign your name below and
your question there or pop us an email
live at category five TV and either Jeff
or Sasha here we'll get those and pass
them along and let us know what you
think of the new set already in the
chatroom I'm seen as the people who are
liking it which is good yes yes nice to
be a part this is comfortable
yeah how do you like standing up I'll
stand for a living I was standing desk I
just noticed the clock and I'm like cool
I can even see you like we're five
minutes overtime that's right working
overtime yeah you you typically stand up
after a long Wednesday and you mind
standing for another hour I don't mind
not at all I like it just be good yes
yeah and I like this because I can sit
here and get a few extra steps in that's
what I was thinking I am I'm you notice
I'm kind of standing here going like
this is right it's not because I'm here
let's see because I will say today on my
lunch break it was a little a chatter on
our little you know cat five team cat
everybody was talking back and forth and
I was trying to keep up with the
conversation and I couldn't because I
was on a treadmill have you got your
insoles in you stay
tonight so so good good good see and
just for Christmas my wife got me the
Samsung gear 2 nice watch and just on
the show alone I've added 400 steps just
my right here little bits of moving I'm
sure some of it is my hands going back
sure yeah works like five calories any
tiny little bit of motivation to keep
people like going and moving and healthy
I am in you know my wife looks at me and
she says she's literally like this is my
my screen so this is my phone
so 3033 steps that's what it shows me in
the middle there sitting down I sit down
for the most part but I did hit 8500
that's right one day yeah one day I hit
8,500 steps and I'm pretty impressed
with that but my wife says what's the
point like you sit at a desk all day
what's the point in having the step
counter and I've just got it on my phone
you know what the point is how great it
feels how motivation yeah how
motivational it is when you actually hit
your goal and you want to do it again
here's the thing I sit at a desk all day
long and I look at that and I see I've
only taken 3,000 steps today right I'm
gonna take the dog for a walk when I get
home exactly where's my motivator if I
don't know that information it's true I
may not never think of it I may just you
know I stood up all night I'm good it's
good for accountability too I actually
had it set up for the first little bit
because I was just starting to walk to
work where I was emailing an
accountability partner my weekly results
so that I stayed accountable and did
walk to and from it's for real I got the
screenshots exactly my toe post to
Facebook but I ain't doing that you're
oh don't do that
are you poking fun at me because my my
tight you know see you type way more
steps than I stop oh and I do I do I
also have
code stats as well so as I code it kind
of keeps track of that but you know I'm
there we go
there it is folks it happened Wow oh
yeah 27 beautiful Ravi Thank You Josh
thank you
I took a screenshot because I'm just
that much of a nerd see I are our house
is a four-level side-split so we got
little sets of flights of stairs and I
didn't realize how often I travel those
stairs yeah till over the Christmas
holidays I think it was when we were I
think it was on Christmas Day I'm just
running back and forth and moving
presents and cleaning up all that kind
of stuff with all the times I want to
hit those steps my watch is like hey
good job you've gone through 69 flights
today yeah don't actually know how some
sort of pressure analysis yeah it says
today I've walked 17 floors that's
amazing what does a boat maybe like my
drone it's the the the cs20 something I
don't know one of my drones has a it
doesn't have a GPS but it has altitude
hold based on barometric pressure wonder
if it uses that kind of a technology I
have no clue when I first got my Fitbit
I would brush my teeth walking up and
down the stairs in my apartment like
with the hand that's holding the Fitbit
come back countless extra steps for two
minutes anyway so you might as well do
the stairs for two minutes while you're
doing that I lose a lot of tabs because
I don't shampoo just going downhill talk
about these lights yeah that's true it
is all the time that we have anyway so
comment below give us a thumbs up please
and thank you and thank you everybody
for supporting category five TV as well
you do that through our partner links by
purchasing things on Amazon eBay and
other partners so go over to category
five TV you'll see a support us button
on the menu and you can follow our
partner links there great way to help us
out also your contributions through
patreon and PayPal through our tip jar
makes a huge difference and we crate Lee
appreciate it please do keep it coming
we're
a little short for February rent and we
are volunteers here and and we
appreciate everybody who stands by us
and that keeps us on the air keeps us
going and keeps us strong so that we can
keep doing this
mm-hmm we're looking forward to
everything that's to come in 2017 that's
right it's gonna be a fun year folks
well you guys have a good couple of
weeks I'm gonna be gone Oh what are you
doing I'm hanging out in Hawaii Oh
watching all the category-five are you
yes skyping us or anything like that uh
if my wife will let me Skype is no we're
not gonna hear from you probably not
okay no enjoy your mojito
yep that's true there is shark diving
nice yeah no I'm gonna be snooping have
a fun time scuba scuba it's it's
snorkeling
but like scuba cuz there's a tank that
floats on the water and you're allowed
to go down late tethered yeah you tether
to the line so I can stay on the water
like a snorkel that is tethered up do
this so I can stay underwater for up to
30 minutes nice
so it's schooling you Deanie yeah pretty
much
yeah like scooping without the scuba
very fun send pictures be safe driving
sjcam 4004 so you're gonna bring it take
some shots absolutely and then I'm gonna
come back and be all lobster read nice
because I burn and match your hair yep
pretty much well yeah actually I'll make
my hair look light me I'll do that be
like oh your hair is gray yeah pretty
much it's it's padded yeah
joys of being a ginger well hey have a
fantastic week sash and I'll be here
next week and we'll let you know about
five minutes before the show who's gonna
be co-hosting a lot of great folks that
are gonna be involved this year and
we're looking forward to having
everybody here so take care have a great
week
Libya Happy New Year good night
