Peter wrote us to ask I wonder if you've
ever looked at different sizes of audio
files when in various file formats I
know some formats are lossy but a
one-hour stereo 16 bits file would be
over 600 megabytes for is it called a
WAV file well yeah but only 114
megabytes for WMA 93.9 megabytes for
flack yep yep 83.3 megabytes for that's
really impressive for flack to be
department yeah yes for a CC and 15 not
4.9 I see AAC sorry Jason a CC AAC and
54.9 megabytes for MP we're comparing
different file formats for audio and
thinking about the size the file becomes
okay the best audio format still seems
to be mp3 even though it's not
technically supported anymore all of
these formats are supported by my wife
Mary's 8 gigabyte mp3 player so I'm just
curious what would be the best format to
use to fit a ton of audio books on it
any suggestion okay
yeah mp3 is probably the most widely
supportive as far as devices go and I
use mp3 because I could just drag and
drop it onto anything and it plays yeah
if you start going into like a AC even
WM WMA is yeah windows media audio it's
a proprietary codec for windows media so
it won't work on all devices will say on
all devices some may have paid for the
patents or whatever they are yeah to be
able to use them let's thing with mp3
and WAV
they're very open and the thing is when
you compare the two mp3 is the
compressed format yeah so you're going
to be saving a lot more space when it
comes to that as you can see as your saw
9 analysis right right so we have to
look at it this way so wave is lossless
so this is what lossless means it is raw
audio it sounds like it sounds and
there's no loss to the sound that's why
it's called lossless lossy means mp3
takes that and removes the stuff that
isn't necessarily needed stuff that's
outside of the the audible spectrum so
things in the you know 24,000 hurt
it's going to remove those things
because the human ear can't hear it
anyway so why bloat the file with it so
it it does that and then it compresses
and you can lose quality so what it
comes down to then Peter is figuring out
what your ears are capable of hearing
and we know that we're like 20 to 20,000
Hertz we know that the human voice is
much much different than that we might
be what do you think about seventy to
fourteen thousand hurt yeah and I ad so
well so there this is knowing the
spectrum we can save some space well III
would also just save stay with mp3
others son because file format that's
the contained yeah I know that's the
thing because when you say it's
unsupported or whatever it's it's still
supported just like was it the patent or
something that finally came up for like
the the creators of it have said you
know what we're not we're not going to
it's not going to be we're not going to
continue supporting we're not going to
continue developing at like Windows I
know
and those ABI yeah something like maybe
I containers but I don't know so mp3 is
a container it's the file format but
what happens within it and it is the
codec as well it's so it's MPEG layer 3
so a file container the so that's the
dot mp3 or dot WMV or WMA that's the
container and then the codec is what's
inside of that to actually play so when
we understand the relation of those two
things so mp3 being a compressed format
we can compress it at all kinds of
levels using a variety of different
styles of mp3 like do we want to use CBR
you may have heard of constant bitrate
variable bitrate is saying hey I know
that it's I want it to sound about this
good but then when the drums start
kicking in I want to do is that up a
little bit because there's so much more
stuff happening that we need more data
in that moment but then when it goes
down to hush all of a sudden we can drop
down so variable bitrate says oh I can
save some space here because they're
whispering and there's nothing going on
so variable bitrate will save you a lot
of space while still maintaining overall
audio quality could we do some
demonstrating of how this kind of works
yes a couple other things to remember if
you have so generally speaking a good
quality like CD quality sound file is
going to be what forty four point one
kilohertz and that's CD so that's the
frequency response or the frequency of
the file itself okay a lot of numbers to
throw out there but there's a difference
between frequency and bitrate forty four
point one kilohertz is CD quality forty
eight is better than CD quality sixteen
is way worse like telephone quality so
bitrate on the other hand is how many
bits of data per second are we going to
have happening so you've seen like a
forty four point one kilohertz file with
128 kilobits per second bitrate so
that's like close to CD 192 would
probably be closer to CD quality and you
can go as high as like 320 and the CBR
spectrum so so then there's another
thing that affects your file size I'm
throwing a lot of data out there is it
stereo or mono mono audio so if you put
on a pair of headphones and you're
listening to music you hear all the
stuff going on around if you're
listening to audio books like Mary is
and they have music and it's all around
and there's things happening over there
and if you close your your eyes or
whatever you can hear things all around
that's stereo sound if it's recorded in
binaural audio so it's 3d 360 audio
that's stereo sound so you have to do
stereo sound if you want thatif I would
be the best way to listen to an audio
book could you imagine if you were just
like your eyes were closed and you were
just sitting on the couch and we were
like behind you so like you're in the
book like you're in the movie and you
can hear them talking like yeah ASMR all
the way oh my gosh rubbing my earlobe
thing geez go crazy ah
so if it's a stereo file in that it has
to be both sides and it's surrounding
you know then that's going to use twice
as much data for the same amount of
quality so we know then that if if it's
just someone talking it's a
audiobook they're speaking into a
microphone they're reading to you then
it's probably doable in mono because
it's the same thing on both sides and
they're just talking to you and so we
can get away with mono so now that we
can make it a mono file we can actually
reduce the quality exactly in hash in
mono and it's going to be the same audio
quality perceptively as the stereo file
with twice the quality so that means
twice the file size okay if it's a
hundred Meg's in stereo we can cut
everything in half and make it mono it
will sound the same to out but it will
only be 50 Meg's right okay that's what
I mean by this
okay I'm going to jump over to my laptop
my wife back is an author and category 5
TV network is we're actually launching a
series of audio books so Mary you may
enjoy these they are coming soon
we're working on our first non-seasonal
audiobooks and then we have one in
Halloween we have one little or
Christmas as well oopy mm-hmm so got a
couple here and if I click on one this
is a stereophonic fly category $5
problems along the left side of the room
so fusing the contours of ancient
equipment for a myriad trash along with
tables and giving your bellevue services
i collected dirt dead insects and chunks
of machine Rebekah's voices yet center
so with an audiobook like this it's
produced it's got music it's got sound
effects things happen all around you in
stereo you're going to get a better
effect but if we want to really cram
enough files onto that a free player we
can go with mono and we do just fine
so Peter let's look at how we can
actually do that I'm here on debian 9
and this will be the same on any Linux
distribution so I'm going to go on mine
it's going to be su to become root on
yours if it's if it's boon - it might be
sudo su but now what I want to do is
apt-get update what peak update I'm
going to install a quick little program
here apt-get install
oh is it looking my
no hello my machine is looking on the CD
I wonder if it will work
app get install lame is what if actually
off its don't let it be said it I need
to just quickly add sources because my
my system was installed from flash and I
haven't ever there we go I'm going to
remove the cd-rom repository ok apt-get
update or apt update ok apt install lame
know which repository sorry you don't
you don't need to worry about this
aspect Peter this is just me that
stretch updates I need a couple other I
may need to plug in my just to make it
happen quick come on where's Lane
located ok I've got my flash drive here
I apologize
this is this is one of those things
where it's like a coal we don't ever
know what's going to happen if something
happens now they know how to handle it
just yet it's Robbie with have that
flash drive and just plug in the flash
drive out everything need get them all
am I not going to be able to get lame
that is so lame you know
in the meantime Debbie and nine sources
dot list let's even get a proper sources
list here this might have been missing a
bunch of stuff sudo apt purge nano the
first thing I type on a new system
what no nanos a great editor come on now
okay Peter I apologize and viewers at
home I'm just grabbing some okay here
here are some sources I don't have a
good source list because I installed
from from the optical media so I'm just
going to grab the demo from the Debian
site with the non free components don't
everything that this is London apt-get
update now we're getting it from the web
there we go that's where it was supposed
to start folks the interwebs
so Peter if so now I've done the apt-get
update it's just going grabbed my
current repositories fantastic and then
we're going to install the application
called lame
boom totally apt-get install lame there
goes there are so many things in this
world that are lame lame is gone it's
actually awesome what is it it's an mp3
decoder encoder for Linux whatever you
can install it do anything you want with
these mp3 files okay so I'm going to
jump on my desktop and then into the
audiobooks folder I've got those two mp3
files there and if I look at them the
one I'm looking at is Gerren and it is
27 megabytes so what I want you to do is
first of all you'll notice if you do
lame - - help there isn't a lot of
information there so instead I want you
to learn to go man lame man ditch day
man lame bruh all right so here's our
manual so first off we've got options
okay so this is what we're looking for
but these are the input options lame is
going to recognize an mp3 file as an mp3
file so I don't need to worry about any
of the input options leave them be and
you're fine so let's get down to our
actual encoding here we go operational
options so this is where I would take a
pen may I borrow your pen yes you may
thank you so I'm going to look at this
and I'm going to say okay mode I know
this is an audiobook Peter so I want to
do mono so for mode we do dash M and
then for mono we do scroll down just a
little ways here see that mono is M so
my actual command is going to be dash M
space M for mono so it's going to change
the mode to mono now let's continue on
in the man pages and see what else we
need - a is for if you are using a PCM
source don't worry about it because your
source is mp3 - D allows the left and
right channels to use different block
size types not applicable free format
decode we don't need any of that keep
going keep going
replay gain you probably don't need that
but that is just a way of telling your
mp3 player if it's compatible with mp3
gain that you know these are the maximum
and minimum levels and it will try to
equalize them for you the audio should
be alright keep skipping keep skipping
and what else do we need - Q for quality
okay so - Q we want to set our quality
to something that's going to be pretty
good and looking at this - Q zero is
nuts - Q zero says the quality of this
encoder is so darn good that is probably
ridiculous it doesn't affect the file
size all it does is it just takes more
time so if you're working on a really
really big file doing - Q zero is going
to be nuts as far as the time goes
versus - Q four four would be faster but
a little less quality whether it's
perceptible or not
but I have a fast computer so I always
do the I don't mind waiting for it so
I'll do - q0 next up - H simply adds
some high quality improvements to the
lame encoder why would I not do that
because you want something fast if you
want something fast don't do all the
high quality stuff because it takes more
time if you don't mind waiting hey dude
- H you see that use some quality
improvements encoding will be slower but
the result will be of higher quality
doesn't affect the file size okay so do
we want constant bit rate which is - the
CBR no we want to go we talked about it
we don't want ABR either that's the
average bit rate we want VBR the
variable bitrate i've already described
what that does so we're going to use the
new variable bitrate so we're going to
go - - VBR - new you see that on your
screen and then our VBR quality that's
right here our variable bitrate and - V
and then the number is the actual
quality of our VB our file zero being
the highest quality nine being the worst
quality figure that one out
so I probably take rationalisation yeah
so we're going to you know what I'm
going to leave - B as is so the default
is four I'm happy with that if I go any
lower than that it will be a larger file
if I go higher I'm going to lose quality
so our bitrate with a lowercase B that
is the that is the is that this no
that's the bitrate so this is the kind
of the where we're averaging things so -
B I know that it's speech we talked
about how if we're doing mono we can cut
things in half so we know that this is
192 or 128 kilobits per second if I cut
that in half it's going to sound exactly
the same because it's mono mono okay
yeah so we can go as low as 64 without
affecting the sound quality and it's
going to be half the file size so let's
try that let's go - B that's a lowercase
B 64 I'm jotting this down so that we
get the full command upper case B that's
that's the maximum allowed bit rate why
would you want to do that because you
really want control over the file side
so I'm going to say you know I want the
minute the minimum to be I said at the
64 I'm going to explain in the second
why we're going to actually go lower
than that but I want the maximum to be
96 say for example so that the file size
is controlled so what variable bitrate
encoding does is it looks at the file
Peter and it says okay we're right now
if we had this bitrate we're going to
have good quality and it's going to
fluctuate between the minimum and
maximum that you have set
so again if we're whispering if we're
talking like this there's no drum if
there's no keyboards there's nothing we
could drop down to 8 kilobits per second
and it'll still sound fantastic because
just my voice okay okay
Audio hooks very very common so the
lowercase B I'm going to say no we're
not going to go with 64 I'm going to go
down to 8 8 and our maximum let's go up
to so that's a capital B capital B and
I'm going to post all of this in the
show notes below so make sure you check
out our website category 5 TV or if
you're on youtube you'll see that in the
note capital B we are going to go with a
higher bitrate than that we're going to
go with 96 I'm going to say that is the
absolute maximum that I want to hit as
far as my variable bitrate goes and
that's it that's all that I need so I've
got - mm we know what it means convert
it to mono - Q 0 really good quality at
the behest of speed and then we've got -
H for high quality stuff VB our new is
the sub - - PBR - new is the the type of
encoding we're going to use - B
lowercase is 8 that's the lowest bit
rate and the highest is 96 capital B -
96 let's do it okay so my files take
Garan and we're going to go lame and I'm
going to start with my command so - mmm
mono - q0 good quality - H high quality
encoders - - vb r - new at
our actual format is going to be
variable bitrate using the new
algorithms - B with a lowercase B is 8
that's the lowest I want to go as 8
kilobits per second and then the highest
- capital B is 96 input file
Garan and then output file my output dot
mp3 enter boom there it goes now this is
taking an entire audio book which is a
short story so it's not overly long but
let's see how long this takes us there
goes what do you think we're going to
notice it's mono ooh there we go all
done
alas - lnh my output is 14 Meg's Garin
the original audio book was 27 Meg's
let's give a quick audio sample just to
see and this is how you're going to do
this peter is you're going to try all
different kind of bit rates try all
different kinds of settings and find out
which one is going to work for the
audiobooks and then convert them all to
this format to save a lot of space you
can see that already we're saving a ton
of space if I do a media info on Garin
by Becca Ferguson the original oh I
don't have media info installed that's a
helpful tool when you're doing this
install media info and then run that
command again this tells us all about
the codecs and bit rates and file size
and all that kind of stuff so it shows
us this original file with constant
bitrate 192 kilobits per second and
lossy does it say if it was stereo yeah
joint stereo there you go so now if I
look at my new one media info my output
you'll see this one now is variable bit
rate overall bitrate is eighty four
point two kilobits per second and we
should see that let's see format version
layer three lossy do we see that it is
in mono at all I'm looking for it I'm
looking for it someone probably spotted
I don't see it you guys here
oh not Han they've done it differently
channels one channel that's the same as
saying Mona
okay so let's give it an audio listen
here's the original so this is full
quality quite a bit larger category five
dot TV presents a short story by Becca
Ferguson okay
so that's the original now let's jump on
to my new version category five dot TV
presents a short story by Becca Ferguson
okay so you hear how entirely acceptable
and yet original file twenty seven Meg's
new file fourteen very cool just like
magic we've kept the sound quality
pretty close to the same now we're using
variable bit rates with finding that
kind of fluctuating between different
bit rates in order to get good sound but
generally speaking we're getting similar
quality but in mono and cutting the file
size in half you can really play around
with that take that command Peter and
anyone else watching this something hey
this is kind of neat and say okay now
let's say my lowest is eight and my
highest is thirty two and try that
because you can keep experimenting and
say what what kind of difference is that
going to make so now the highest bitrate
it can touch is 32 that's nutty low but
we're mono now so that's actually the
equivalent of 64 kilobits per second
which is half of 128 which is CD quality
right so it should be quite bearable
let's look at the file size difference
bless you this file now is only seven
point four megabytes original file
category five dot TV presents a short
story by Becca Ferguson okay
new file this is the super - super duper
tiny 17.7 Meg's
category-five dot TV presents torie by
Becca Ferguson you hear what happened
there yeah we start to hear a little bit
of heaviness so you experiment with
those take it up to 64 instead of 96 and
play around and get the sound that
you're looking for but you can see how
you can fluctuate the sound improve the
quality as you make changes to those
numbers
cool thanks for the question I hope that
that's helped you out nice thing about
lame is because it is a Bosch terminal
application you can code it into scripts
you can add it to servers you can do all
kinds of stuff we use it here at the
show for our mp3 RSS feeds so when you
download an mp3 for our podcast on any
of our shows it's all created using lane
through a script that runs on a cron job
right done would you have it
[Music]
[Applause]
