welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 551 and before
you think that it's just Robbie tonight
flying solo the team is here hey you two
don't worry we're gonna be hearing from
them in just a couple moments time but
tonight we've got an amazing show
planned for you
Robert Koenig is on the line right now
standing by and he's going to be
teaching us all about how the blockchain
works and you think about that do you
think that sounds so complicated I've
heard about the blockchain I've heard
about Bitcoin and it is so complex
tonight we're gonna bring it down to a
level that even I can understand so
stick around Roberts gonna be sharing
with us and get your questions in we've
got some great information for you here
tonight about crypto currency and the
future of how the blockchain is about to
change the world stick around
this is category five technology TV
[Music]
our live recording is a trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
Technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the International
Association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV flash ia IB welcome to category 5
technology TV episode 551 glad to have
you here lots of exciting stuff
happening tonight
for the record I'm Jeff Weston I am
Sasha and I am here I'm Robby I'm Way
over here on the desk because tonight
we've got Jeff we've got an amazing
interview plan for guys I'm excited
we're gonna be talking with Robert
Koenig who is a pro when it comes to all
things cryptocurrency so we're gonna be
talking to him about the blockchain and
things like that coming up in just a few
moments
absolutely but before we get there need
to let you know in case you missed the
announcement we are on Google Play you
can check us out you could subscribe
category-five TV / subscribe get on the
google play awesome also you can still
submit to contests at category 5 TV to
win your own copy of debt effect to VR
which is awesome so send us an email
just telling us where you're from where
you're watching how you're watching you
know who you are and win and then play
with me is there multiplayer in in the
game I yeah there is I know I only have
one friend and it's you know it sounds
kind of lame my husband is my only
friend all your friends
thanks Jeff this week Nagios enterprises
did a write-up about category-five
technology TV and about nems linux and
about me personally there's pictures
there with me and Sasha and Jeff and
definitely check it out we're so proud
to have been featured by Nagios
enterprises easiest way to find the
article is to head over to NEMS
linux comm slash news and just follow
the link over to Nagios comm from there
so tonight we want to kind of get into
the under the hood of understanding what
the blockchain is it's so mind-bendingly
difficult to get our heads around and
I'm right there with you so tonight
we're going to be speaking with Robert
Koenig who is the global monetary expert
and founder and CEO for centavo Robert
it's so good to have you here thanks for
being here thank you very much the honor
is mine Cheers great being here and we
wanted to have you on the show because
there's this thing that's been happening
in the financial sector over the past
few years that for us laypeople is kind
of hard to get our minds around it's
hard to understand to grasp the concepts
and we're really looking forward to just
having this discussion with you to learn
about things like crypto currency and
the blockchain can you just tell us a
little bit about what it is that you do
yes I know two years working in this
industry the cryptocurrency industry and
it's like everybody else got hooked up
on it through the press at that time I
don't know if it was mount Cox or the
big scandal with the drugs that was
going through the press but at least
that got me interested in blockchain
technology and since then I'm totally
hooked also it's a great technology it's
something new and it's its future I mean
it's definitely future so that's what
I'm doing for now over two years I'm a
consultant in this business and I'm
coming more from the application side so
another technical person is such
i am i way around that a little bit but
the strength is clearly on the
application side and that's great
because i think that in the industry
there is there are a lot of very
technical individuals and the folks that
are explaining blockchain and explaining
how things work to the media are very
technically minded and nr and so the the
focus seems to be on the technology and
in such a way that it's it's really
tough to get our heads around robert to
be honest with you so you speak of the
block not only you yeah
you speak of the blockchain and right
now that's a buzzword it's something
that is we're hearing it all the time
but not a lot of us have our heads
around what the blockchain actually is
can you shed some light on that just
knowing that hey we don't want that
technical explanation we want to kind of
understand from a lay person's
perspective what the blockchain
represents yes it's it's it's nothing
new basically what you do it's like if I
would send you if I've got ten dollars
and I said you five dollars then both of
writers will write it down on a piece of
paper and and that way you create a
ledge it's like bookkeeping and now if
you want to do it on a big scale and
want to have it secured so that other
people cannot change it what you do then
is you link these transactions together
so if if I give you five dollars and you
give five dollars to John
then suddenly I've got one transaction
which is the five dollars in my book
that I wrote down and then I've got the
five or two dollars that you forwarded
to to John also in the book and so I
know it every time what the current
state is the balance is its basic book
like like bookkeeping with the
difference is that they're around eleven
in the case of Bitcoin deal they're
eleven thousand bookkeepers or notaries
that making sure that everything is
working smooth and that's the potential
of the blockchain technology so it's
just
lining up different transactions like a
pearl and calling that into a chain and
linking that together and that's called
the blockchain so is there's another
word for it which is D central
decentralized ledger technology DLT but
it's bookkeeping so it's a if I follow
you correctly it's in the underlying
technology of cryptocurrency the
blockchain is really just a ledgering
system a way of tracking the
transactions within the within the
currencies is that that's exactly it and
and the the difficulty comes from a few
a few different angles one is how do I
make this secure I mean in a world we've
got thousands of hackers that constantly
hack into computers how do I make sure
that nobody can really hack the system
and that makes it then very technical
and very difficult but the principle is
still the same it's like it's a ledger
where you write down transactions and
you make many copies of it okay so how
does the blockchain generate money or
create currency because people are we
hear about people mining things like
Bitcoin or Manero and we'll talk a
little bit about the difference between
those but how how does money come out of
thin air and become part of the the
blockchain yeah well we have to be
careful this with its cryptocurrencies
are not money okay
yeah that they might become money if you
use it in a fiat currency so in other
words if we would start using the
Canadian dollar on a blockchain that
would be money otherwise it's
categorized as a commodity or as a
cryptocurrency and the value comes
through communication it's it's simple
if I would create a coin or if you would
create a coin let's say there is a
category five coin that comes into into
practice for all the fans that you have
then that creates value and that value
represents some monetary value of X if
you exchange it against let's say euros
or Canadian dollars so that's where the
the link is coming from but the end it's
just a basic way of communicating so is
there a purpose in the blockchain beyond
racking currency like that it's that is
from my point of view it's a side effect
yeah there are I mean the the
grandfather is Bitcoin that was in
Bitcoin was created in 2009 yeah it
hasn't been hacked one so it's running
stable since then Wow
but there are 1500 different currencies
also in the mark and the currency is
just a side effect that that's where all
the hype is also coming from in the
price of the volatility and and the
value gets some sort of fiat currency
but the strengths of the blockchain is
that it is a it's the big innovation is
the trust side not the currency side
yeah I can I can send you five bitcoins
and you know that you if you receive
them in your wallet and we'll come back
to that whether wallet is but if you
receive them you know that you have them
you have got possession of them and
nobody can take that away from you
they're yours until you open the wallet
and you transfer the five bitcoins to
somebody else so that is the strengths
can I just hang out here for a moment
Robert and and just there are a lot of
people who heard you say you are
transferring five Bitcoin to my wallet
example you can't blame a guy for trying
you can't blame it back you mentioned
that bla the blockchain or Bitcoin
hasn't been hacked but we do hear about
the hack attacks on different
cryptocurrency storage platforms and
things like that
and we do hear about the theft of
cryptocurrency so is there a big
disconnect between those hack attacks
and the actual technology well it's it's
it's the Wild West
this cryptocurrency is the Wild West and
the problem is not the blockchain as
such the blockchain whether we're
talking a theorem light-cone or the big
ones they're all safe nothing can happen
to them because you've got so many
miners or or people that are responsible
for keeping it it's safe yes it would be
very expensive to hack those the
problems are all coming from the the
user interface yeah so when you as a
user go into website
to login to to to an exchange to buy
bitcoins with Canadian dollars that is
where the difficulty comes from it's a
new industry there are not many
developers that know this language so
there was one case in October last year
we're learning learning experience
pressed the wrong button
and with that wrong button it killed 150
million dollars No
so those are the things that is more on
the on the periphery rather than the
blockchain it's it's the word west those
things will change over time so they're
getting more secure and and people see
also where the hackers are going to so
the security if you for example sign up
to any of those big exchanges let's take
coinbase it's an example I there are
many others then it is really difficult
to open an account because they've got a
long procedure to make sure that it's
really you and that you cannot be hacked
that that the money that you transfer in
is serious all those things that's
something that they learned over the
long period of time and the all the
exchanges are similar so there are
multiple passwords that you have to
enter there are securities with email
and so on so it it's just because the
the user interface is where the weak
side is encrypt the currency it's not
the blockchain the blockchain is running
smooth and save there is the at least of
the big ones as I think about you
mentioned coin base and the exchanges
which is basically where I could store
my currency and the my cryptocurrency
and then convert it to other crypto
currencies or even Fiat US dollars for
example by placing our crypto currency
into those into those sites into those
services we're kind of are we not
centralizing our cryptocurrency and and
and I'd like to talk about
decentralization and learn a little bit
about why that's important well let's
let's go step back because you said
something that was interesting
is all cryptic are all cryptocurrencies
are the same yeah I've got a private key
and you've got a public key the public
key is like a normal account number yeah
if you've got a bank account at the Nova
Scotia Scotia or HSBC you've got a bank
account number it's similar to the
account number in Bitcoin but the
possession of a Bitcoin or a theorem or
like on you only have if you've got this
famous private key and the private key
is like the signature that you deposit
at the bank so if you write a check you
have got a signature on that check that
identifies that this check is coming
from you okay and in crypto currency
that's the private key now one really
important rule is that the Bitcoin or
light coin or any other currency if you
don't have possession of the private key
it's not yours
yeah so in the case of many exchanges
coinbase is one of them you do not get
the private key so they hold the private
key for you you've got a public key but
the private key they hold so in theory
the money or the the Bitcoin is not
yours and why is that important there is
a huge case called man it's it's
it was the number one exchange a few
years ago and that exchange went
bankrupt from one day to another Wow and
because people had not possession of the
private keys they lost everything and
there has been now a lawsuit of many
years on how to get the money back
because they know where the bitcoins are
they got possession of most of them
already and they're discussing now how
to get it back but but that's that's
beside it the important thing is when
you deal with cryptocurrencies it's the
most important thing is be careful that
you have got this private key so what
does that mean in regards to coinbase
coinbase will not give you the private
key they keep it from themselves
therefore you're vulnerable that that
you I mean you don't have possession of
your Bitcoin or like on any theorem or
whatever it is so there are wallets
so-called wallets available in the
market and some are based on a computer
on the cell phone where you have got
possession of the private key there
so hardware wallets that look like USB
sticks or little pieces of hardware
where you have got your Bitcoin and
secured again because you are in
possession of the private key so private
key is absolute key otherwise the money
is not your the bit the currency is not
yours now if you want to exchange
cryptocurrency for dollars or the other
way around
you want to buy cryptocurrency you have
to go through these exchanges and
they're not many because banks don't
like cryptocurrency at the moment yet
that will change I'm pretty sure the
moment they don't like money and
therefore there are not many exchanges
that that allow you to buy with with
fiat money cryptocurrency coinbase
is is the number one they're insured
they're really good in what they're
doing and they're you can buy then your
Bitcoin with with with money then the
other exchanges that don't offer fiat
currency so you cannot use you you use
dollar Canadian dollar you're you cannot
use it you can only use cryptocurrencies
so it's lacking this change I exchange
you one Bitcoin for ten light coins or
whatever so those there are several
exchanges of those these are currently
all centralized so there's a company
that you can call when something
happened or or at least you get some
sort of support the other exchanges and
they will be bigger and bigger of the
future that are decentralized so it's
basically only software handling all the
transactions everything that is
happening and and they will also they're
starting I mean there's one that is
currently in development
it's called ethos that will incorporate
also fiat currencies and and other
currencies within the software package
but those are decentralized that means
that there's nobody really responsible
so you can't call anybody and say hey I
got I lost this wire transfer can you
help me because it's based on progress
so therefore the explenation sorry about
that very anonymous I would presume in
this case to with the decentralization
um I would be careful with that is a non
immunity is something that everybody
talks about and says that is a strength
of the cryptocurrency that's not the
case because you have got this famous
blockchain yeah I can look back on who
did the first transaction no it's true I
only see count numbers I don't see names
right if I would be a government I can
find out who the owner of through next
stage for example who the owner is so
you don't get much I would be careful
with transparency and then we have that
we have had that discussion on the show
where we've talked about how governments
say you know it well we don't keep track
of who the person on the video is but
they can make connections and say oh
well you know we connect this phone
number to this person and we connect
this wallet address to this person and
so all of a sudden we can track and I
know that to be true because I've
received Bitcoin transactions from other
people now that I know they're Bitcoin
address I can see their wallet balance
for example do exactly so from what
you're telling us Robert what I gather
from from your explanations of the
blockchain and the way that sites like
coinbase operate and I find it
interesting that you call them exchanges
because I think what is happening here
and correct me if I'm wrong or maybe
expand on the thought but I think what's
happening is that we're seeing almost a
transition in the paradigm of banking as
as as far as our minds can comprehend
banking because when I think of a site
like coin base as the example and I
think about putting my Bitcoin or my
aetherium into coin base
I'm treating it as if it's a bank I'm
using it to store my currency but on the
other hand you're you're mentioning
about a wallet and having a local wallet
installed on my computer for example and
using those sites instead as as a trade
mechanism between currencies coinbase
using fiat which means i
can use u.s. dollars and my credit card
to buy Bitcoin for example and then take
that Bitcoin out of coinbase because
we're using it just as a trade mechanism
and put it into my wallet am i right in
that thought that the paradigm is
shifting as far as how we should be
thinking about this in relation to
banking absolutely absolutely that's
exactly that's exactly right and it's
the wallet is equal to the bank account
now okay so if you've got and you can
have as many wallets as you want you can
have 100 wallets they all cost nothing
you know you get them free then you've
got hundred bank accounts so you become
your own bank manager okay
so can I move can I for example take my
wallet and back it up have redundancy
yes you can I would be careful if you if
the the security is something that has
to be taken very serious in in this
industry because it's international
there is nobody really watching there's
nobody in charge for example a bit come
there's nobody checked you cannot call
anybody and so securing you all it is is
really important so it doesn't get
hacked I've seen so many examples of
people even stealing your I mean if they
know that you have got
I don't let's invent a number of
thousand bitcoins so that you've got a
lot of money then they go to an extreme
that I haven't seen before they call the
the cell phone company and transfer the
cell phone over to them so that they can
access there's special Google
authorization which is called the
two-factor of the gate authentication so
that they can have access to your coin
base account and just empty it seen it
many times that is nothing new so what
has to be really careful so the best
thing is for for the layman is to have
one of these wallets the hardware
wallets we are like treasure and ledger
those are the two big ones treasure is
tre CRR and ledger is like ledger they
have got very small hardware units with
those you can store many of the
currencies and and there's their safe
but nevertheless you have to remember
the passwords you have to somehow write
those down so security is something it's
not an easy subject and I would be
always suggest everybody should be very
careful about security okay yeah no I
mean don't leave for example things on
the laptop when you know right there's
an internet stay on my laptop yeah
Ashley you have or is it Jeff yeah I
have one so I mean just with what you
know you're talking about there as far
as you know somebody's stealing your
stuff what legal protections are
provided when it comes to crypto
currency exchanges so Robert if somebody
were to steal our crypto currency is
there any kind of legal way that we can
combat that for a limited time get your
hands on limited-edition shirts from the
category 5 TV network these high-quality
shirts are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap v dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official network shirt today cap v dot
TV slash shirts
if somebody were to steal our
cryptocurrency is there any kind of
legal way that we can combat that nope
not really I mean there might be
examples in one or few cases where that
is the case where you've got to recurse
but that like this this case that I
mentioned before where this apprentice
cut off 150 million dollars if it was
your money sorry about that you lost it
you were not in possession of the
private keys and therefore you lost
hundred fifty million dollars and
there's and there's there are ways of
course theoretical how to get that back
through so-called forking but let's not
go down that road we're getting every
particle we get so so the answer clear
answer is no you don't have a way
getting that back there's no I mean it's
like everybody says okay we'll then
forbid trading in Bitcoin it's not
possible
bitcoin is a protocol is software there
is no person behind it you have got 100
developers that they are really good in
what they're doing there are
leading-edge developers you've got the
miners that like the notary's that
securing the system and then you've got
the users like you and me that that are
using the system but that's it there is
no telephone number no email address you
lost it you lost it and what also
happened to me I mean all these
exchanges according based I think it's
getting every day fifty two hundred
thousand additional users Wow and so
support is really difficult one day I
lost my two-factor authentication so
it's like a separate password that you
have on the mobile phone yeah that is
change every minute that's two-factor
authentication and I lost that key links
and so I had to go through a process on
the coinbase website and that took me at
least two three days to get through that
because it was telling me all the time
that's not you that's not you you need
to send a different picture because it's
all fully automated yeah another
exchange it took me about three four
weeks before I got an answer or four
transaction that went wrong
so we knew so you pretty much on your
own and that in that same so we need a
wallet set up offline that is our own
that we can keep safe or may print the
private key and then have it in a safe
location Jeff and with that you know the
food just asked a question the chatroom
is there a best practices document that
people can follow like you've just said
you know keeping it offline I mean if
you're gonna have your private keys you
don't want to store them on a computer
that could get stolen or put them on a
cloud-based system that could get hacked
so what are some of those best practices
you can follow our and is there a
document that you yeah there are there
resources Robert that would help us to
follow good practices when it comes to
keeping our cryptocurrency safe yes
there is although it can get a little
complicated if you go to one of those
currencies that nobody has heard of yeah
so there are thousand five hundred and
and the big wallets they don't carry all
those thousand five hundred they carry
around hundred or so so the best
practice number one is keep your private
key if you don't have a private key you
don't have anything the second one is
use there's some software wallets that
you can choose like EXO does its EXO the
US and I think it's dot IO but I'm not
quite sure they're very good there are
desktop based and and Mac based and then
you've got those hardware wallets like
if you're like like ledger and and
treasurer there might be one or two that
are based on the cellphone which I don't
know because I don't use the cellphone
for these purposes that's what I good
would go for I would I mean there are
different opinions out there of what
means secure and if you hear of those
Bitcoin maximalist so those are the ones
that believe Bitcoin invented the hot
water and that it will change the world
for better so those those people they
are the opinion that you need to put the
Bitcoin on the node which is is like
like like till the the database of the
ledger I don't think that that's the
case unless you have got really
substantial amount of money so when you
start under ten
thousand dollars wanted like Exodus
ledger or treasure they're absolutely
fine I would not go further what I would
take care of if you do it online with
with the Exodus wallet that you have got
definitely some antivirus software also
installed if you don't have that then
just take the laptop offline so nobody
can hack it yeah and encrypt your data
or keep it behind a password or
something like that I think is really
important as well and and sorry that I
interrupted you it's important also that
if you do it on the desktop that you
backed it up there are also many people
that were the computer crashed which is
normal and then they lost everything
there was one that went even to the dump
two favorite stories to tell it's a
tragedy so so this guy had the private
keys on a hard drive that yeah thrown
out so we have to keep that safe and I
think that's why we hear the term paper
wallet which is somebody I guess just
what printing or writing down their
private key and keeping it in a safety
deposit box so that if the worst came to
worst you could always recover your your
currency that way so moving along from
the technology and you know the so I've
got a better understanding I feel of the
blockchain now and I hope that our
viewers feel the same there are so many
you mentioned 1,500 plus different
crypto currencies what's what's that
about like we we hear Bitcoin that's the
buzzword we know of Manero and aetherium
and like coin and turtle coin what
what's what's happening here yeah it's
it's a fast expanding market four or
five years ago you had Bitcoin and
that's it the Bitcoin had a hundred
percent market share today Bitcoin has
got around 40 percent market share and
and in future it will go down further
because creating a coin or token which
is more or less the same is extremely
simple yeah it will
take you 5 minutes to create your coin
and that in itself will mean that there
will be millions of coins available in
the near future because everybody can
create a coin without a big difficulty
yeah so the the vast majority of those
coins were coming through just people
geeks or so inventing something and
saying oh this will put on the
blockchain now we will create a
blockchain for this application not
really thinking it through because it
beg to differ because some have really
got it down some are really doing a
great oh yes with all coins absolutely
I'm not no question about it and that's
what I'm hooked on to this technology
but out of those thousand five hundred I
would not give it more than two hundred
that are really serious companies sure
that are able to achieve enough gold
there are others that that just invented
something to scan people that there are
many of those y'all so many that just
don't exist anymore yeah yeah so
somebody invented something and it
doesn't exist anymore yeah the other
thing that is happening now it's it's
going down a little bit but it was the
peak is the so called AI cos it's a new
way of funding a project so instead of
having a private investor you go through
an ICO and just for people to make money
they invented I SEOs right left and
center and that also created them coins
so that they can be traded
and that usually went goes down in price
like like nothing so I would say maximum
two hundred coins that are in in in the
market are really good projects that one
could think of and really learn more
about it yeah and I think that's an
amazing stat to think that that small of
a percent is really worth investing time
investing money investing resources in
and the whole idea behind cryptocurrency
is that you hope that it's going to go
up in value
that's not promised but it's it's an
interesting trend anyways
what do you see just kind of looking
forward to the future here Robert will
we ever see cryptocurrency you know
there's there's a lot of theories out
there that as you say bitcoins gonna
take over and there are these who
believe in that do you think that we're
ever gonna see for example entire
nations that are using cryptocurrency as
their homeland currency yes I'm pretty
sure that within ten years all larger
currencies will be all based on a
blockchain really it does make sense
because it gives the government
transparency the huge flexibility is
coming with that so for example
fractional reserve banking which is an
ugly way to make money that can be all
controlled in a much more in a much
better way so for central banks they're
all experimenting with blockchain
technology already so it will that will
come and that's one project also that
I'm in invested I've invested in but I
know that sweetness for example
currently selecting this Russia is doing
that so in within ten years we'll have
every currency on a blockchain I'm
pretty sure about that that's unreal now
I have a question as far as I mean just
a few minutes ago you're talking about
all the alt coins and how there's you
know so many coins on the market I don't
know if this delves into your area of
expertise but if somebody wants to get
into mining a cryptocurrency and and all
that how do they know what's a
legitimate coin and what is a fake coin
that's just somebody starting it up for
the sake of starting enough to see if
they could do it like how do you know if
you're gonna invest in it how do you
know where to put your resources that is
an awesome question because if you don't
follow the basic guidelines you will get
burned yeah I've lost a lot of money
doing that and why because there are
people there pumping dumb clubs out
there for example so there's people that
are pumping a coin it goes up in price
and next day it falls down again
you if you're not part of that tub and
you suddenly see koi going up in value
you might think oh this is a coin that
has got a great future you invest in it
you lose money so the most important
thing is if you're beginner if you're an
absolute beginner stay with the top ten
coins there you there are you pretty
safe the volume is big so you can trade
them there's liquidity in other words
and there's enough infrastructure like
wallets and so on now everybody will get
into this especially if the prices will
go up again which everybody is saying
that that's the case we'll jump on this
wagon of Oh to the moon or I want to
have a Lambo or so you've heard that and
that's what you get part if you're not
careful so if you want to invest in a
coin make sure that is that what a coin
that is being traded to specific volume
so that there's liquidity what do I mean
by that there are some coins where
there's only one transaction per day
yeah so if you want to sell or you want
to buy you have to wait a long time
until you can fulfill your orders that's
not good yeah so that prices has will
have a huge volatility regardless
whether you like it or you don't like it
then the others where you should go on
to the web site and the web sites are
visible to all the coins and just check
are there any developers is there
somebody doing work how is the marketing
concept how is the concept as such so if
you don't start believing in this coin I
would not invest in it it's like in a
company yeah it's it's if you want if
somebody comes and says hey I've got a
great hot dog idea then you of course
want to learn more because there are
thousands of hot dog ideas so you learn
more about it what type of sausage are
they useing the bun all those things and
if you like the people if you like the
management if you see that everything
really works that's what I would buy
yeah and don't make the mistake there
are I don't know at least 30 YouTube
bloggers and
I'm talking about coins every single day
and they're saying yeah you have to go
into this coin now because this coin
will go to the moon if you do that I'm
pretty sure you will lose your money
because these people everybody cooks
with water nobody knows how the future
is going to look like nobody knows how
the price is going to be tomorrow and
there's a lot of volatility in there
there's a lot of scams in there
one of them the biggest one the recently
was bid Kinect which was a pyramid
scheme completely illegal in many
countries but it existed because nobody
knew where the head office of that
company was a lot of people lost a lot
of money some people made a lot of money
so be very careful where you invest your
money yeah so as again as a beginner I
would go for the big ten coins and just
stay there learn more about the
technology learn what Bitcoin means get
hooked on this year I promise you that
within a week you will love if you
technology mind within a week you'll
love all this year it's really simple
the the surface is simple it can go very
complicated but the surface very simple
there's a lot of information on the
internet and and you learn every step a
little bit more oh wow a lot to take in
tonight Robert my perspective is
different as a miner as opposed to an
investor yes so when you talk about
watching kind of the trends and
everything else like I'm mining what's
easy to mine so I mean we're talking
coins that are 18 Satoshi and less and
so there's nowhere to go but up and my
risk is absolutely zero so you know from
a financial perspective there's no
there's no risk there but understanding
you know what we can look for as you
know if we were going to invest that's
that's excellent as well risk zero is I
hear what you're saying and I it's I
mean you will not get rich by mining but
there's a risk because you have to keep
the computer switched on 24 hours a day
so you're consuming electricity
computers don't last forever so the
computer will break down now after a
period of time that means you have the
risk of buying a new con
Piron you hope that including the money
of the electricity you made enough money
with a mining there are specialist
mining equipments but that's even worse
yes so it all comes down on the quantity
and also the electricity that that the
mining costs so if the electricity costs
the new area above ten cents then it is
already borderline of being profitable
and and the technology moves so far that
it is difficult to keep up with the
hardware technology yeah but it can be
fun it can be a lot of fun Canada I
absolutely I I recommend it just to
learn how this thing works download a
note yeah take a bit do you theory
because if there's a little bit it's not
working correctly but if you take the
Bitcoin note you need to of course a hot
pic harddrive and you run and you just
learn that so it's it's fun and just
can't start mining yeah build your own
mining rig but you need to know about IT
to do so it's not that simple yeah yeah
but it's fun where can people you know
as we wrap up our discussion today
Robert where can people get more
information about about the technology
where I mean we can get into Google and
there are a million different results
for finding out more information about
the blockchain where should we go yeah
there's there's one magazine that's
called coin Telegraph so if you google
coin Telegraph comm and then Bitcoin for
beginners they have got a good section
of what what this technology is about I
would definitely go onto YouTube and
search for blockchain 101 or Bitcoin for
beginners and just watch as many YouTube
videos as you want and as you can there
will be some explanations where even I
don't understand a word of what they're
saying just switch them off and search
the next one so I would do a lot of
YouTube videos and and I would
definitely go in and open an account on
coinbase or any of these other exchanges
they exist just to learn it gets dude I
mean Bitcoin the nice thing I mean with
you store Canadian dollar you have got
ten cents or one cent is the small
unit in Bitcoin it goes several digits
behind the commerce so you can with two
or three Canadian dollars you can buy a
portion of a Bitcoin right and with that
you start learning and and see what this
industry is about yeah we didn't go into
any examples of what outside of the
currency market is possible but that's
where the big music will play in future
as it's just to give two examples one is
with bank account but banks you touched
on that before at the moment or you know
let's say twenty years ago if you went
to your branch manager at your local
bank and you asked for a loan that
branch manager could take the decision
whether they would give you the loan or
not today they just fill out a form
right they sent that form to head office
or some central place they take the
decision that in future will all be
automated through a blockchain yeah so
people need to be aware of that
interesting that all this
decision-making is linked to to a
blockchain
it's called smart contracts that's what
if theorem is about neo euros and and so
on they incorporate this this
intelligence attached to to the chain
what does that mean banks is jobs but if
for example you want to buy a Gucci
wallet then today you don't know if it's
made in China it's a fake one you have
got no clue because we're not experts in
Gucci wallets but in future you'll have
a little sticker in there with you scan
it with your cell phone and it will tell
you exactly in which factory it was
developed food the same yeah papayas if
you want to buy papayas and you want to
make sure that they're really organic
then at the moment you have to trust
wherever you buy those those the the
fruit from but in future you can scan
that code and you know exactly that
where they came from
and if there are general not those are
just a few examples of what would be
possible with with this technology yeah
so we were basically back to where the
internet was 20 years ago where the only
thing you knew is HTML and it looked
horrible and then Sunday Amazon
came up with offering books and you try
it after a few months to book and it was
delivered and us happy and now we do
everything through the internet and
blockchain is a similar one because you
remove completely the trust layer I
don't have to trust you anymore
I know that I have got this thing in my
hands proof and therefore it's mine I've
got the private key that's it so all
these things that's what will come and
that's why this is so exciting it is a
lot to get our heads around I know
feeling it for my viewers tonight but
I'm understanding how we're able to now
use the blockchain to authenticate goods
yes cryptography because we're talking
extremely secure cryptography that
cannot be replicated or emulated or
faked and that's that's exciting Robert
I appreciate your time very very much
tonight thank you for joining us and how
can we how can we find you how can we
give a shout out to you the easiest way
you to get hold of me is through the
company that I currently have we just
sent our it's Xen ta vo other so it's
like the Spanish sent ya the Spanish
sent is sent out with the C at the
beginning our word starts with an exit
centavo calm and then you just sent an
email and I'll be reachable so if
anybody of your audience has got any
questions because I know we went through
a lot tonight and I'm sorry about that
but I think it's those were important
things so if somebody wants to have a
little bit more the information just
sent me an email I'm happy to answer
those what you've done tonight Robert is
you've taken a lot of complicated
concepts compress them into a 40-minute
interview here and said you know this
this can make sense we may have to watch
it back a couple times but we may be
able to get our heads around some of
these technologies and for that I
appreciate it very very much thank you
for for joining us tonight it's an honor
and thank you five and it was real
pleasure thank you thanks Robert
have a good night good does this is
category five technology TV and we're
gonna jump right over
to the newsroom Sasha is standing by
with our news stories and I heard some
information there about that blockchain
that I think is going to touch on some
of our stories tonight as well Sasha
over to you here are the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom IBM just unveiled the world's
smallest computer the mind-reading alter
ego headset interacts with Alexa
telepathically the Linux beep command
can be exploited ahold plans to replace
Intel chips and will use its own custom
math tips beginning in 2020 these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
you're terrible actor
what this whereat thing comes into play
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host this is the category five TV
news room covering the week's top tech
stories with a slight linux bias
I'm Sachi Rickman and here the top
stories were following this week if you
thought the Raspberry Pi was a small
computer this will blow your mind
IBM just unveiled the world's smallest
computer and it measures just one
millimeter by one millimeter IBM hopes
to pioneer the technologies that could
change our lives in the next five years
therefore iBM is now building the
world's smallest computer details are
still sparse but there's enough info to
get excited about the computer is one
millimeter by one millimeter in size
smaller than a grain of rock salt and
apparently cost less than ten cents to
manufacture let's put that into context
be honest
you thought it was tiny when you saw
this picture but what you need to
realize is that this picture is actually
of a chip that holds 64 motherboards on
each of those motherboards there are two
of these tiny computers from IBM yes
pictured here are 128 of the computers
oh there's an actual photo of the
computer here's an actual photo of the
computer on a pile of salt to give you
some scale the last world's smallest
computer to make a big splash was the
Michigan micro mote a in 2015 which was
twice the size of this computer feature
wise the computer has a processor with
several hundred thousand transistors as
SRAM memory and a photo vote vote Alex L
for power and a telecommunications unit
that uses LED and a photo detector to
talk with the outside world
IBM claims the computer has the power of
an x86 chip from 1990 that puts it
exactly on the edge of enough power to
run the original doom IBM's actual
application for this chip seems mostly
centered on supply chain management and
counterfeit protection enter the
blockchain buzz this the chip is just
one of many crypto anchors that IBM is
developing for this purpose and now we
wait for more details on IBM's plans for
this the tiniest of computers Wow this
is interesting because I get the purpose
of the computer but I have to wonder how
many people are gonna go and crap I just
lost my computer I just like I get it
for you no cat maybe with some
applications counterfeit protection I'm
confused about I guess you just put a
computer on everything Sasha on episode
551 Robert Koenig was on the show and
you remember him talking about the the
ability to use the blockchain to verify
that fruit is actually organic and
verify that things are from the the
actual Gucci manufacturer and not some
knockoff in China do you remember that
discussion yes so that would be like one
of those little computers is what would
you set because the blockchain is a
computer technology so it requires a
computer in order to access it and run
it imagine this like I'm talking a one
millimeter the size of a grain of salt
maybe a little smaller that is a
computer that is as powerful as what we
used to use back in the 90s my mind is
actually blown are there other like
crazy things we could do with tiny small
computers they are
the sky's the limit I mean as we advance
technology and you take something this
small I'm sure give it another couple of
years is gonna be a way to make
something that small even faster start
implementing that with you know say your
glasses to run a virtual screen so that
you know you can go all star trek with
that you know the glasses thing I mean
you've got stuff like that I mean I'm
thinking you know people that microchip
their pets how amazing would this be
that you know you stick the thing in the
dog's nose so that from now on Fido when
he comes to your house and sniffs the
door it picks up this computer chip
scans and goes oh it's final opens the
doggie door so your house can stay
secure instead of this open flap that
anybody can get it I mean you think of
all the possibilities of this and I'm
thinking sky's aquila to medical stuff
being able to inject a like a very very
tiny thing under the skin or into the
bloodstream or I don't know if if that
can be done I don't know I'm not a
doctor but I can see that being used
well I mean imagine it you know say you
throw one in each of you know
the palm you need the palm of your hand
and on the tips of your fingers and next
thing you know you have the ability to
control you know various technologies of
your house your car whatever because you
have these unique identifiers because
you've had these little micro computer I
mean anything it'll be like the newest
trend in piercing of them ten thousand
of them all mining Manero on a die this
big that's all you need that's not even
imagine my I can't my brain can't even I
need I need one of these little tiny
computers in my brain helping me with
this yeah it's very interesting for sure
oh okay the food thinks that input and
output is going to be the issue how can
you communicate with outside peripherals
such as you know it's not going to have
an HDMI port right it's not going to
have the capability to connect in a
mouse and these kinds of things
but you think about being able to
program that chip to do specific
functions and then let it loose and do
to do its thing yet cryptocurrency
wouldn't take long to have some sort of
a many Wi-Fi signal I mean thinking with
today's current technology to have some
sort of interface like that were you
doing things wirelessly I mean you could
take a cell phone please in a way
Wireless because it's using the photo
yeah whatever
I don't know the word pallet voltaic I
don't know that it uses so basically it
uses the flashing light in order to
receive and transmit data okay well but
take for instance like my watch I have a
samsung you know gear fit and with a
flashing green light it measures my
blood pressure right and my pulse I mean
and that's just a light on my skin so I
mean imagine something like this would
work just as well
so that's very cool yeah you know what
else is cool this next story I'm
intrigued the mind-reading alter ego
headset communicates with Alexa through
telepathy speaking to voice assistants
no matter how helpful they can be it's
still not something the majority of us
do on a daily basis
especially in public but what if you
could speak to a voice assistant only by
thinking about the words you want to say
considerably less embarrassing right
that's the basic concept behind the
alter ego a prototype mind-reading
wearable designed by researchers at MIT
how it works is extremely clever okay
it doesn't quite read your mind but
instead it reads something called
subvocalization this is the name given
to tiny almost imperceptible
neurological and muscular movements made
when we say words to ourselves inside
our head 16 electrodes on the prototype
alter ego headset since the changes and
match these signals to data inside a
special neural network and eventually
activate whatever task it was requested
the headset also has a bone conducting
speakers
which use your skull to transmit sound
into your inner ear rather than actually
putting an earbud in the canal so you
can remain aware of the outside world
while wearing it at the moment the
headset has 16 electrodes and wraps
around the side of your face with a
connection on the jaw and the back of
the neck however the team has seen
similar results from a model with only
four electrodes meaning it could easily
become much smaller so far the team has
conducted various experiments including
playing a game of chess while telling
the opponent's moves to the wearable
computer and getting potential return
moves spoken back cheating yes but a
clear demonstration of what it can do
additionally the device can do simple
math lead developer on the project
Arnoff Kapoor said the idea behind alter
ego was to build an internal computing
platform that feels like an internal
extension of our own cognition thesis
adviser Patti Mayes added that the
headset could help us all benefit from
smartphones and the internet without
being closed off in the world by looking
down at a screen or wearing earbuds that
Starner a Georgia Tech professor pointed
out how helpful silent speech would be
in situations where voices can't be
heard people who work in noisy
environments for example and those
possibly including military personnel
who rely on hand gestures to communicate
when sound would give away their
position or even for people who don't
have the ability to speak at all
currently the alter ego is a prototype
used for research and not available to
buy but it's possible we could see the
technology being investigated here in
next-generation devices that will use as
regularly as we do smartphones today wow
I feel like this is not new which sounds
very weird to say but I thought I heard
something like this in Toronto gonna say
five six years ago where there was a
professor who was working on
mind-reading technology to control
devices around his house and the intent
was
to build something for people who were
quadriplegic okay so I I don't I mean
maybe that was just a myth news story I
mean fake news never happens but you
know it's possible that this has already
been under way but this is a very unique
way of going but you know with the whole
idea of you know what I had heard about
being done for quadriplegics makes me
wonder could this be used for somebody
who's say in a coma so you've been in
some sort of an accident
there's no way to verbally connect with
you but there's enough research where
people have it's determined that even
though you're in a coma you can hear you
there is some sort of cognitive ability
and is there a way to interface with
somebody who is in that situation right
or even on the autism spectrum like
somebody who's sure
nonverbal right yeah I think it's
absolutely fascinating okay okay but
then on the other side and I'm doing the
Jeff other side thing now yeah the dark
side yeah if you could hack in or if you
could exploit and do some data I don't
know what they call it scraping or
something and you could find out what
people wearing these are thinking all
the time wouldn't that be really
beneficial to people you know what like
the case like I've heard of the bone
conductive audio on trains for
advertisers so that when people rest
their head up against the window they
can hear the ads now there's no sound
right but it uses the bone conduction
technology that this uses too so what if
they then translated this technology
into when you put your head up against
the window it can hear your thoughts
right what I mean there's always gonna
be a concern that the techno and I in a
real I can't believe I'm actually
defending this but there's always gonna
be a concern the technology could be
used negatively but I mean I I see the
positives for something like this
right and I would hope that once it is
consumer available the price point is
not outlandish that is available for
people who could benefit from it
and not just something so expensive
that's used to exploit people but you do
bring up a good point and you know
thinking about the unconscious what
about your dreams if you're sleeping and
you're dreaming your dreams are not
reality but is there the possibility
that this would interface with the
device to suddenly impact your outside
world because of dreams and I think of
what's that show black mirror yes where
they record your thoughts and stuff
could this be going down that road okay
this if a hilariously reminds me of a
news story we did a week ago or so where
I can't remember it was it was probably
Microsoft banning you for offensive
language yeah how big is your filter
have to be well then we'll just be in
George Orwell's 1984 yes my here's my
final thought how would this change the
world and how Sasha would this change
John Krasinski's quiet place the movie
just took on a completely different
twist retro programmers may need to
reconsider using Linux beep command as
an activity or progress alert one of the
silliest bugs on record emerged late
last week when Debian project leader
Chris lamb took to the distro security
to post an advisory that the little
utility had a local privilege escalating
vulnerability the utility lets either a
command lined user control the command
line user control a PC speaker or more
usefully a program can pipe the command
out to the command line to tell the user
something's happened if of course their
machines still have a beeper speaker
which is increasingly rare and raises
the question as to why the utility still
exists since beep isn't even installed
by default it's not hard to see why the
issue went unnoticed German security
researcher and
journalist hano box at alerted the OSS
SEC lists two further issues on Sunday
Bach listed an information disclosure
bug in which beep opens arbitrary files
for right as route bypassing file
permissions Debian's
Rhonda Devine wrote that this reveals
the existence of files normally hidden
from user and said if a file has side
effects when open beep allows the
calling user to trigger those side
effects even if they are not authorized
to do so Jacob Wilk pointed out that
named pipes and tape devices are
affected box notes also linked to an
integer overflow and a bug in the patch
that's supposed to fix the original
issue as a result Bach wrote beep should
probably be discarded it needs a proper
code review and there isn't much point
to the effort for a tool talking to the
pc speaker which doesn't exist in most
modern systems anyway that is brutal why
how can beep have such a serious exploit
as that well maybe because nobody uses
it and so like what I just can't fathom
how a code that makes your computer
speaker beep gives root level access to
file systems that's a fail that's a big
fail it's not often we have a news story
where I kind of just go I'm I'm I'm the
other side of that where I'm
flabbergasted this is software that
allows your computer speaker to go deep
is it essential for anybody to still
have this does anybody use this you know
in a way that they can't just this
disposed of it can't I feel like they
can dispose of it but then there are the
purists who you know have been using
computers all their lives who when I
turn on my computer I like to hear that
beep
I like to hear the PC speaker beep
that's that's a bad beep now Robby it's
a very bad beep and if I hear it you are
exploitable that's ridiculous
i I I have nothing I have literally
nothing to say about there's a guy
honestly just feel like perhaps it's
time to just put it to bed like don't
fix the exploit just get rid of the
entirety like get rid of this beep
speaker beeps useless feature of your
computer just get rid of it exactly it's
it's not it's like get it
remove your wisdom teeth and get rid of
your beeps meet speaker do both of those
things in your life from solves but at
least you can chew food with your wisdom
teeth but I mean I did beep suddenly
you've get access to files you should
just very malicious beep okay apples
plans to replace Intel chips Apple plans
to replace Intel chips and will use its
own custom Mac chips beginning in 2020
the new plan is part of an innovative an
innovative named Collett Kalamata which
is expected to help all Apple devices
including Mac's
iPhones and iPads work more seamlessly
together the Kalamata initiative will
allow apple's design and engineering
teams to have a much greater control
over the power and features they wish to
implement Apple already designs its own
ARM based chips that it uses in iPhones
iPads watches and Apple TV devices
moving away from Intel chips will allow
Apple to freely release new Mac models
without having to wait on new Intel
chips the company will also be able to
produce new systems without having to
depend on when Intel would be able to
put new chips into production the mac
chip plans are said to be in the early
stages of development and the transition
to Apple chips in the hardware is likely
to begin with laptops such as the
12-inch MacBook s' as early as 2020
so Apple it's Apple just gonna take and
tell down
is that what no not gonna happen
oh it is Intel gonna suffer from I'm so
confused like you know
okay so Intel don't suffer if Apple
withdraws No then just let them in Intel
is a phenomenal company incredibly
stable is this gonna have an impact on
their stocks probably but it's not going
to destroy the company but the thing
that I Apple is known for making their
own hardware they do everything in-house
I mean I have a friend who works for
Apple he patented a new heat cooling fan
like he had this team four of them and
they came up with a new way of making it
smaller and you know but that's what
Apple does they go I don't want anybody
else's stuff I want my own stuff I want
you to not be able to use anybody's
stuff for my stuff they put these walls
around their sandbox and nobody can play
with their sin unless Apple decides to
let you in to play with their sin and
that doesn't happen this is just another
Apple ism this is what Apple does so I'm
not surprised by it add nobody I mean I
think it's going to drive the prices up
Marsh man reminds us in the chat room
that it means Apple going a hundred
percent proprietary absolutely it
creates a whole level of brand
continuity that nobody's going to be
able to impede upon because if Apple you
know by 2020 is completely standalone
they do it all themselves by keeping
everything contained within that sandbox
they are protected from any other
company that goes poof right and if
Intel ever wet puffs Apple would be in
trouble but now because they're doing
this standalone
they're going to be protected in that
sense but at the same time it also means
if there's ever an issue with Apple they
could go puff right because it's solely
on them they can't blame anybody well
exactly right they can't be like oh we
bought bad batteries right but
I just I mean I think this is going to
drive the point the price point up I
mean as it is right now people are
mortgaging their children in order to
buy a new iPhone people are so brand
loyal if you I think you love this story
yeah yeah I am NOT personally right I
won't way to go Apple big thanks to
Peter carve carve a Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and over here on the desk I'm
Robbie Ferguson and besides Sasha I'm
Jeff Weston thank you so much for being
here with us a game this week looking
forward to next week's show when we're
going to actually be firing up yet again
another Raspberry Pi 3 exclusive feature
where we're comparing the different
models but we're gonna do something a
little bit different because we're gonna
be looking at n64 emulation Jeff what do
you think of that I think it's exciting
unfortunately I'm not gonna be here now
I know where work as me not I'm really
bummed I'm gonna miss it
Sasha and I are doing some gaming n64
style sweet retro thanks for being here
everybody we'll see you again next week
take care
