gambits trucks wants to know how hi
what's to know have you considered the
roland v1 HD or the new black magic 8mm
I liked okay so what what you're asking
I believe is whether we have because
we've talked a lot about upgrading you
know how can we upgrade the studio how
can we make it so that switching is more
efficient because right now you know I'm
touching a touchscreen monitor and it
works really well and if I want to like
zoom in and do that kind of thing but
I'm using digital zoom and it's not
perfect and and those kinds of things so
with with Telestream Wirecast with an
ATM with one of these roland devices you
it's a piece of hardware with a bunch of
buttons on it out so instead of software
it's hardware that doesn't simply know
anything you plug all your cameras into
it and you push the button cuts which
you probably could get an external pedal
to do it'll be fine yeah do you want to
just be able to kick it like playing
rock band there you go can you trigger
it with a drum pad awesome watch out it
keeps switching cameras every time I
walk on the set I I haven't really
looked at them because they're like a
thousand bucks each and you know we use
Telestream Wirecast I love it I stand by
it
it's fantastic it does a lot of stuff
that those kinds of Hardware switchers
can't do because it's software so we're
not limited to a hardware device and the
capabilities of the hardware if they
want to add a new feature they add it to
the software and it comes out with the
next release so so I love that about
Telestream Wirecast there are some
advantages to those kinds of switchers
the hardware switchers in particular I
think of an environment where if we were
doing more in the field stuff like
traveling then I would think that would
be something really cool we have an an
audio fly track that you can't see but
Henry and Sasha can it's a flight box
and we can put the lid on it and take it
with us it'd be cool to have something
like an 8m switcher in there if we're
doing in the field recording we don't
have to take the giant 200
server with us and that would be kind of
cool but in our environment we're so
stationary that this works really well
for us and I think you know it's it's
cost-effective and it's kind of the
route I want to take is sticking with PC
I do have a request so my my TV is 4k
and I have like a 4k I don't my TV is
really high-def converting my blu-ray oh
yeah everything is really super clear
okay can we not do that ever us do we
for know forecast oh you were asking if
we could not do never do it okay cuz you
all like me right now but I'll tell ya
in 4k
that's clearer than clear well clear
1080p is clear this is clear this is
good 1080p is fantastic even what about
20s sure but what happens is when we
want to zoom in like this digital zoom
means now it's a little bit fuzzy it's
the same amount of pixels but it's like
you're losing them right yeah we kind of
are so the next best option might be
what's called a pan tilt zoom camera and
I have the opportunity to look at one of
these and I've never ever considered it
before as an upgrade for the studio but
how cool would it be for us to get
another camera maybe put a DSLR on
either side for the close-up shots that
we normally use but a pan tilt zoom
camera allows us to move around the
camera as if there's a camera operator
with optical zoom oh so does it actually
track your face or do you have to like
where like it doesn't track I haven't
seen one the tracks but no it's it's
controller based okay so you set up
three shots shots or preset shots you
push a button you want to see a clip
yeah
so this I had the opportunity to try one
of these look at that nose yeah look at
that look at the clarity so this is me
acting shocked because I've never seen
such a cool camera this is a PTZ camera
from it's like PTZ optics is the name of
the company so this was just me before
hours checking things out so it has a
nice autofocus and I can yeah thanks a
lot I can get in there real close and in
and you can see look at my ear there how
crystal-clear that is so if we were
doing product demonstrations and things
and being able to zoom in with that kind
of clarity now that's how quickly the
lens will move
from one location to the next like the
r2d2 camera yeah and I'm just kind of
moving it around there and there's the
controller and so what I've done is I've
set up a couple of presets but you can
see the zoom is nice and smooth so you
can get nice zoom transitions and you
can pan it around the screen so it's
actually physically moving the lens and
then when you're when you're happy with
it you can set the shot so with us we
can have one that zooms in on Sasha and
I just set it just like that so see I
just set one to five and I can switch
between five and then go back to four
and it's just like that there that's
your entire switcher isn't it it's kind
of like a switcher so it gives us a
whole bunch of new opportunities and
even though it's only 1080p because it
has optical zoom it gives us this really
good crystal clarity and the ability
from here to be able to control the cat
it's something that would cost us a
couple of thousand dollars just to get
started something we could it's
sometimes hypothetically we could do if
viewers like you wanted to stand behind
a project like that which would be an
upgrade so we would add that as a third
camera here on the set and it may be the
answer to some of the questions we've
had how can we improve the video quality
you look at Sasha's camera which
unfortunately went a little dark here
and that's because of the that's the
exposure I think I set it incorrectly
but that is how clear that 1080p camera
is just a DSLR so one on either side of
us we have two this is one and and then
a PTZ in the middle and we'd be able to
move that camera anywhere on the set
including down on the desk so that we
can get close-ups and of product and
things like that or we could get like a
360 camera and have like a VR no it is a
real amount of work it's awesome but
it's so much post-production is way too
much work this is something we can work
on the fly live hit record hit stop when
we're done and the show's over and we're
good to go so I love it what do you
think post your comments below if you
want to support it please head on over
to donate category-five dot TV throw a
little bit in the tip jar or a lot if
you're able as I mentioned it's going to
cost at least a couple of thousand
dollars
in order to get that going with the
camera that we were looking at I'd like
to see something like that with a
controller that is not a TV remote style
controller you can get something that
will just push a button and it will it
will switch to the different shots but
that's something that you know hopefully
will be in the cards for us in the
future and we're all volunteers here so
we appreciate all your support and
regardless of whether that's something
you want to support please do consider
supporting us on patreon that helps us
to pay our rent each month and all the
other expenses that we have here at the
show
so thank you very much for all of those
of you who have been supporting us and
also buying through our partner links
and all the other cool ways that you can
pitch in the episode y'all are great
[Music]
[Applause]
