Sasha yes have you ever been on Facebook
in the past I have been on Facebook or
email often on email and has anyone like
your husband or someone said what's the
password to this or what's the what's
your credit card number any of this kind
of information that you would never send
over face just add this today on the way
here my wife called me and what is she
saying she's like I need to know that
password and what it has have you ever
had that happen I think so maybe we
can't pinpoint an exact moment in time
Jeff tomorrow asking me but I can't
think of a time that's right but today
so she said what's the password to that
thing yeah the best part is I'm going
try this try this try this try this
you're giving her all this we had 16
different options and none of them
worked
none of them worked okay but now you've
given out as many of your passwords as
you can think of yes so who knows what
those passwords are for and there's this
thing called a man-in-the-middle attack
and what that means is okay so I'm the
man in the middle Sasha yes could you
tell Jeff your password Oh
my password is password yeah password 1
2 3
could you hear that password 1 2 3 yeah
I heard that too because I'm the man in
the middle right and so if I go into a
public Wi-Fi hotspot right so I'm
sitting at a coffee shop I've got my
phone and I'm doing what I think is a
private conversation well I'm actually
who's the man in the middle well the
coffee shop or anyone who's on that same
Wi-Fi network because now remember as
soon as you connect to the same network
Jeff you're on the same local area
network as I am right so you have a
local IP address and you're able to
monitor traffic that is happening from
my device correct ok so man in the
middle says I can hear what you're
saying
so you just shared your 16 passwords and
I can hear it because I'm the man in the
middle well what if there was a service
that's absolutely free that kind of
helps with that by saying ok only one
person can hear this and when Jeff
here's your password
I'm gonna destroy all records of what
you said right okay that would be
wonderful
you remember Maxwell Smart yes the shoe
phone yeah and what was it like the
exploding hears everything yeah here's
here's the past here's the secret
message or even you know what was it
tuned to there's a card I'll get you
next time gadget Inspector Gadget yes
I'll get you next time gadget he was the
same in so this message will
self-destruct and chief Quimby and Boas
got burned exactly right so there's a
service that you can bring up just
strictly through your web browser and
how cool would it be if you could have a
one time message that you said and if it
if it was called a one time message
wouldn't it be right that it would be
one time in your browser so the number
one T Y dot M e so you head on over
there and I say okay well my password
Jeff is password 1 2 3 and then I
generate the link and now it's going to
allow me to send that link so I can copy
that link and I can now email that to my
friend Jeff or send it to him by text
send it to him by Facebook or however I
want to do it now Jeff receives that
link and he clicks on it and it says
this message will self-destruct now
notice I'm connected over a secure
connection so everything that I typed
their password 1 2 3 was encrypted going
to the server and because of the nature
of their service we make that very valid
assumption that they're encrypting it on
their end as well right but the
communication that's happening here is
completely encrypted so if we jump back
to Jeff's note that he is open now we
can view that note and there's the note
that I just sent Jeff my password is
password 1 2 3 but wait
some man in the middle has access to
that URL that I just sent Jeff and so
they click on it and it says hey hold up
the note you're trying to view was
already accessed notes may
be viewed once and then they all
destroyed haha
1t y dot m e one time just like that one
time one time everybody had the whole
time we're not even less I'm just song
great service check it out
[Music]
[Applause]
