for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TB
hi welcome to episode number 266 of
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
October the 23rd 2012 how are you nice
to see you and tonight we answer the
age-old question who is this Abigail
Smith who keeps showing up in the
credits of the show ladies and gentlemen
hi using Abigail Smith I'm Abigail and
catagory good how are you doing good
tell us a little bit about yourself
before we get into having I know you're
anxious to get through the checklist I
feel like an interview or something so
tell me about yourself tell him what do
you do i do like what are your hobbies
if you could do five things in the next
ten years what would it be no seriously
tell yourself well yeah i'm a horseback
rider um yeah just finished college so
now I'm just kind of you know doing my
own thing won't bad yeah nature
photography all that fun stuff so here
it's a photography yep cool yeah what
kind of stuff do you shoot I'm still
kind of trying to figure that out oh
you're learning fun yeah better nature
Emperor with regards to photography yeah
I'm gonna bring up your bio here on our
website category 5 TV we are gonna skip
right to the end here and just kind of
ask a couple of questions just to get to
know you a little bit better for one
thing okay so you don't like spiders
understood that's why I brought out the
tarantulas um you tore a ligament can
you tell us about that yeah very your
horseback rider so cool yes you know she
was bawling pic jumping you know yeah
ball thing doing all the fun stuff no
yeah um it was in math class actually in
grade 9 the teachers like Abby can you
close the door I'm just like okay so i
stood up and all of a sudden next thing
you know I've like it's falling down
yeah yeah my knee sit on it weird and
just couldn't walk for like three days
so you know cool ass react they didn't
really notice they just kind of hurt me
like crashing
Skyler was going on but jeans yeah so
uncaring yeah unbelievable well welcome
to the show nice to have here I'm
looking forward to the category 5
community getting to know you of course
this sure this being Abigail's first
time on the show it's it's a new
experience for you but we're very much a
community-oriented show so you can see
the chat room if you join us in the chat
room category 5 on freenode or go to our
website click on interact at category 5
TV you'll see the chat room they're
really important that you do so to not
just to show Abigail that you're here
and that you're part of the community
and that you're watching live but also
we had some pretty cool stuff to give
away tonight we do awesome i'm actually
pretty jealous yeah and we are actually
going to be giving some stuff away to
the chat room woohoo so join us and of
course we got prizes for our berry and
surrounding area folks as well so don't
go anywhere stick around what have we
got coming up in the news Abigail Smith
all right well let me tell you so coming
up the Pirate Bay has moved its servers
to the cloud skype has radically reduced
its battery usage for the upcoming
release of Windows 8 a robot with four
arms has performed heart surgery mm-hmm
and hail a taxi using your smartphone
and find out about the drivers
reputation before they pick you up stick
around these stories are coming up later
in the show mm-hmm what's it this we
love getting your snack we love getting
your postcards here category 5
technology TV we got one from Holland i
believe it was in a week yeah I love
receiving your postcards from all around
the world there it is all right so sorry
for if i pronounced it wrong but hi
greetings from collenberg borg a
beautiful city lying in the center of
holland my hometown I'm a regular
offline due to the broadcast times fewer
and love the mix of fun and info keep up
the good work with a smile Oh Oh Harry
van meeghan you realize that realize
that means that we have to include info
i'm not sure but i was enjoying myself
that was unfair because i told her
before the show all we're gonna do is
have fun tonight so sorry about that
yeah I guess we're gonna have to talk
about a boon to 12.3 yes but do we want
to run or we gonna stick with Zorin OS
version 6 ultimate edition so we're
gonna let you decide we're gonna install
them side by side and we're gonna give
each one a test and Abigail being have
you ever used linux i had times a few
times we are a windows users user
primarily pretty much i'm gonna show you
a couple of different current linux
distributions we're gonna look at Boone
to which is the late of it's the latest
version of ubuntu like i said came out
on thursday then we've got Zorin OS
which came out a little while ago but
we're gonna compare them and see what
you think would be the ultimate in order
to transition you from microsoft windows
it's my professional opinion there yeah
yeah yeah it's kind of how it works
alright sounds good if you'd like to
send your postcard Abigail sorry I
promised that I would pull that up on
the screen how can they send that in all
right well there's category 5 technology
TV p.o.box to 9009 Barrie Ontario Canada
l4n 7 w 7 thanks Abigail and of course
our mobile site is online at em cat five
dot TV bring that up on your mobile
device you'll be able to watch the show
live if it's compatible but certainly
you'll be able to watch past episodes
and be able to check out some of the
stuff that's going on there so m dot cat
five dot TV we've got to take a really
quick break Abigail and when we come
back we're immediately going to start
giving away stuff in the chat room so
get into the chat room this is your
final chance to get in before draw bot
sees who is in there I'm just gonna take
a quick look at who's in the chat room I
do see guests 4841 now guests 4841 I'd
like you to change your name we
encourage our viewers to to actually
label themselves so that we have a way
to know who you are and you know it
doesn't have to be a real name for
example jaunt
but the reason I say that is because in
order to participate in the prizes in
the giveaway you have to have a name so
make sure you do that right now John is
there in the chat room explaining how
you can do that also yeah I see the
instructions there so give that a try
okay everybody get in the chat room
we're going to be right back after this
with your prize draw and we'll see you
and draw bots on the other side talk to
you a sec at eco alkalines we believe
you should be able to trust your
batteries not just here but here here
and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here Eco alkalines of the
world's first and only certified carbon
neutral battery manufactured to the
highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance the rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference Eco alkalines calm
welcome back this is category 5
technology TV hello to gwg gadget wisdom
grew nice to see you in the chat room
agra moto jot pablo joining us as well
we've got another guest in there make
sure you change your name I want you to
be able to participate in tonight's raw
what do we have for them tonight should
I tell them I'm telling you I'm Morgan
well let's tease first what's coming out
had those of you who are in here in
Barry who were at our anniversary show
let's pull up the the big big all right
thank you they're big from TT eSports is
from thermaltake USA calms the new track
o headphones whoa they can't even see
well go enough to carry there it is
folks the ultimate pair of headphones
right there from TT esports you see them
is it the red dracos ette they are
spectacular the best set of headphones
you will have ever owned they're pretty
cool not only do they look cool let's
check out some of these specs now this
is what we're giving away a little later
in the show so you want to stick around
let's see if I can find some
specifications here frequency response
for those of you in the know 10
on the low end 22k hurts on the high end
oh oh so we're gonna be given those away
in a few minutes it here you go now
today I had the privilege of actually
speaking with with bill from ESET and we
were talking about some of the products
and the changes with with ESET the
endpoint security products for business
and and just spectacular software I
would encourage you to actually check
out smart antivirus dot CA but in my
conversation with bill who flew all the
way up from California unfortunately
couldn't actually join us in the studio
tonight but was was here chatting with
us in bury this afternoon we actually
were able to hook you up with free
copies of ESET nod32 antivirus version 5
for your home computer so you have any
systems that are running Microsoft
Windows this is this is a nice
lightweight antivirus product so we've
got some copies of this to give away let
me a flash em yeah well just not the
back because that's got the serial key
but here you go there there's what we
have for you so check out smart
antivirus CA for the down low on ESET
nod32 antivirus these are the home
product we are gonna give away five of
these tonight for our home users here we
go okay draw bot has gotten the names
are you ready our number count 39 active
right and so our first winner is our f
bomb our F bomb you are our first winner
of a license for ESET nod32 antivirus
version 5 home edition okay next up here
we go
a Jameson 55 79 congratulations you're
our next winner got three more of these
to give away and again Albert R
congratulations you've also picked up
copy of ESET nod32 antivirus version 5
and ready shamik or c hammock depending
on how serious you are our fourth winner
right oh my god yes what's thinking that
was fourth yeah dremel congratulations
and D hand also joining us in the chat
room congratulations to you you have
picked up the final copy of ESET nod32
antivirus version 5 okay folks if your
name was called out tonight all you have
to do is pop us an email live at
category five dot TV tell us hey or
whatever it is just let us know that you
were one of our winners and what your
user name was I'm going to actually
email you back with your download
instructions and the license key in
order to install that on your Windows
system congratulations everybody stick
around we're going to give away those
headphones a little bit later on get
your tickets your ballots ready very
very folks if you're at our anniversary
show hold on to those raffle tickets
okay and we're gonna we're going to take
care of that in just a little while all
right when you say we get into some
viewer questions sure all right okay so
our first question is from two red line
there's quite a few questions so we'll
just start with first one I have a
d-link DNS 320s that I have been using
with windows for a couple years now I'm
currently trying to use ubuntu studio
distro i installed and see if i can
change my primary us os os rating system
you make sure I'm trying not to laugh at
my pronunciation dear alright what do I
have to do to create a mount point to
this drive long-term I can currently
browse to it via SMB colon dash dash DNS
/ volume underscore ones left
keep reading okay so he's browsing it so
browsing ruling but want to access via
media / NASA so i can save files Wow way
to kick things off with an awesome FS
tab question okay so he's got this
device that is a network attached
storage that's what nast ann's for ya
it's a dns 320 d-link device so i think
that's a to drive unit that connects to
his network you can throw a couple of
two terabyte drives in there gives you a
whole lot of space and and then you can
access it through the internet or
through the network not the internet on
your Windows systems you go / / device
name / share name and you would access
it so when he says he's going SMB colon
slash slash device name / share name for
example that's how he's accessing the
files on that network attached storage
device basically like a hard drive
that's in your network as opposed to in
your computer brilliant thing because
you can access the data from any
computer within your network mm-hm so I
have I don't have one of those devices I
do have a server though so i'll just
show Abigail and those of you at home
what kind of what it looks like here so
for me for example abagelle i'm going to
go SMB colon slash slash 1000 five
that's the IP address of my server so
then I've got category five as one of
the shares so here's a category five
share and this is kind of where i drop
all this stuff for category five so if I
want you know a copy of our logo it's
it's all here kind of master files right
so that's my share on the server that's
how I get to it with in Linux but how do
we actually get it on a mount point
which is basically to set it up as if
it's an actual hard drive so suppose I'm
going to have to get into the terminal
get our roll up our sleeves a little bit
and show you how this is done so I do
appreciate the question let's see if I
can do this in a in a way that
translates well I'm going to bring up my
terminal here and the reason I'm doing
it through the terminal is because I do
have to have superuser access to do some
of the things that I need to do so i
might as well use the terminal and I can
use the sudo command
then say opening a superuser Nautilus
window which can be dangerous so in here
first of all we need to create amount
points i'm going to go CD / media ok so
the folder media already exists because
that's where linux generally puts some
of your your mount points ok so if I
insert I don't know why floppy exist
that's amazing by the way but you know
there are floppy mountain pointe SDC one
is one of my hard drives for example
VirtualBox is where I store all my
virtual box stuff on another drive so
for me see what I could do is I could
make der and call this media what was it
that he wanted to call the nass on the
oh he literally wanted to call it
capital na ask now if i hit enter it's
going to give me an error watch this
they cannot create directory nass
permission denied this is why I'm doing
this in terminal because I want to be
able to go sudo just super user do make
turn ass because I need to have
superuser access in order to create that
folder so now if I do an LS which is to
display the the folder contents you'll
see that there's now a map older which
we're calling them out point because
we're actually going to use it as a
mount point that is called Nass and feel
free to interrupt me if anything doesn't
make any sense because you're kind of
your the other person that go between
yeah be able to say well okay well what
is the mount point right I know you're
thinking that yeah I don't know what you
think on your Windows system you've
gotta c drive yeah and addy drive and
maybe you've got a knee drive or
whatever we used to have a drives that's
where the floppy comes in so think of D
as being a mount point okay on Linux so
it works a little bit differently
because I can create a folder and I can
call that whatever I want and I can make
that my CD Drive I could make a folder
called crazy disc and I could mount my
CD drive to that so now anytime I open
crazy disc it's actually my CD drive so
I can call them whatever I want I can
create them wherever I want on my system
as long as I have access to that folder
because i'm using super user do sudo i'm
able to create it within the media
folder yeah so I've created one called
Nass
that's where we're going to put the
mount point that's where we're going to
connect that network attached storage
within his system interesting fact is is
as soon as you mount something within
your media folder it's automatically
going to create an icon on your desktop
so let's actually do that I could do
this one of so many ways first way is we
could go into you know we could just go
and create through places let's see I
could just connect to a server for
example I don't want to do that like I
could go here and I can whatever i'm
going to actually use FS tab I want to
do this so that when you reboot your
computer it's gonna it's going to
automatically be there it's going to
work and it's going to work really
really well and I want you to learn
something cool neat things that you can
do with Lennox so ok so back at our
terminal there it is we're going to do a
couple things here now we're working we
have a next session running so we might
as well utilize it I'm going to go CD /
ET see there's a file in here called FS
tab and that's your filesystem table
that's what stores all the information
about your mount points so now i'm going
to go sudo and watch what i'm going to
do here g edit FS tab so i'm actually
launching a superuser g edit window
reason i use sudo is because i need to
be able to edit this file and this is a
system file I'm not by default I don't
by default have access to this file ok
as my user so now what I'm going to do
is I'm going to create a new line and we
know that my server so we're going to go
/ / like that my servers 1000 top 5 my
share name is called category 5 okay
space now we're going to tell it where
we're going to save it where we're going
to mount it so I'm gonna go media /
media / and we called it na s it is case
sensitive okay so I'm doing it like that
then I'm going to go I'm going to tell
it what protocol we're going to use sm
bffs which reminds me we we may need to
install that if you don't have the Samba
file system installed you may have to go
into terminal okay
sudo apt-get install SMB FS I already
have it installed already the newest
version you see that but if you have any
trouble or maybe just do that as the
first step just to make sure because it
doesn't hurt anything to try it if you
already have it okay so there's my line
so far sm bffs it means i'm going to
mount the Samba file system may be
mounting this to a local local mount
point okay mm-hmm I need to set up a
quadratic credentials file credentials
equals and let's put it into a folder
that I don't normally have access to
because we don't want people to
necessarily find our credentials file
okay so we'll do that uid this is
basically your username on your system
if you're not sure of it its it's going
to be found up here system
administration users and groups I'm the
demo user it's basically you know it's
the name of my folder okay you probably
know what you're you ideas for me it's
demo on this particular system then I
need to use my group ID which is GID and
it can pretty much be anything but it's
probably going to work as users you can
change that if you want then there's two
other options whether you want to dump
the file system and your scan order both
of which are irrelevant to a Samba file
share or file system so it just leave
those as 00 with spaces there so they're
not actually used okay save that file
this is my FS tab file again so that's
what it looks like it's telling it to
grab from 10 dot 0 dot 05 / category
five and that can be a hostname too but
i tend to use my IP address because i
don't have to worry about dns and stuff
/ media / NASA is my mount point sm bffs
as my file system type credentials
equals ET c / samba / cred file which i
still need to create comma u ID equals
demo demo comma u GI d equals users
and then 00 ok so we've saved that now
the next step of course is we're going
to actually create that credentials file
so all I have to do is just go new file
remember the sardius superuser window
and so I'm going to go username equals
Robbie this is the user now see ok let
me explain FS tab this user is my
computer system user on this computer ok
here what I'm doing is on creating the
username and password on mine ass device
so this is the username and password for
the share that I'm actually mounting
password equals 1 2 3 4 5 whatever it is
ok so now i'm going to go save and i'm
going to actually save that to / ET c /
samba / cred dash file because that's
what I called the file when I yeah
specified it in there okay so there it
goes and it's good to go so now I've
done those two things and a close out of
this I've got my thing here terminal
don't reboot your computer we've went
through this with a viewer recently
where they had made changes to their FS
tab file and rebooted their computer in
order to see if it worked but because
they had corrupted something in their FS
tab file which is your filesystem table
they actually lost access to their hard
drive oh no I can't boot my computer I'm
absolutely messed in that so I'm going
to show you a little a little trick here
it's going to keep you safe by actually
testing your settings and actually
creating your mountain points i'm going
to go sudo mount dash a what that does
is it grabs all the data from your FS
tab file and actually mounts it hit
enter I didn't get an error which is
good news that tells me it sounds like
there it is I've got an ass device on my
desktop and if I click on it it is
exactly the same there it is 2011 logo
there it is it is my category 5 share on
this on the network attached storage
okay so that's how you set that up got
that not that yeah rewind flip it back
yeah this is why we recording these
things for you but excellent knowledge
to have though and then really really
helpful to really get into your FS tab
file for me for example my computer if
if my harddrive were to crash no big
whoop all of my documents because
remember i can set anything as a mount
point so my folder called documents on
my computer It's My Documents folder but
it actually has an entry in FS tab which
points it to the server which has
redundancy and is backed up on a daily
basis yeah so every time I open my
documents it's actually locating those
files on the server so you can do those
kinds of things videos if you don't want
to store them on your internal hard
drive and you want to put them on an
external hard drive so so that you can
set up some kind of you know weird right
array or something so that you have more
storage you can set that up that way
with an ass right mm-hmm so many
different things you can do with that so
thank you very much for the question I
hope that helps yourself and possibly
others as well all right you mentioned
there were more questions there's yeah
there is um they're asking how can I
move around items in the application bar
for example I screenshot to show under
graphics not accessories create new
folders etc okay it depends on what what
distribution you're running now i'm
using a gnome based system so for me for
example just for the sake of the
demonstration if i right click on
applications which i'm going to assume
maybe you're running gnome 2 because you
use the word applications go edit menus
okay and this actually is a list of all
the stuff okay so over here graphics
let's say we want GNU image manipulation
program actually to go under sound and
video so I grab it and drag it and I put
it over top of sound and video and
notice that it's going to make a copy
it's not going to move it I let go ok so
now under graphics I have gimp image
editor and under sound and video i also
have there it is gimp image editor ok so
now over at graphics i can do one of two
things either i can just uncheck it so
that i can always put it back easily
I want because now it's disappeared from
the menu so now if I go applications
graphics you'll notice the GIMP is gone
okay but if I go to sound and video
there it is okay so that's my preferred
method would be just to uncheck it
however you can also highlight it and
click on delete and that will remove the
old entry as well okay so i am going to
put that back as it was real quickly on
my system because i know well next
demonstration they'll be looking for it
and Garbi i'll remind me that oh you
moved it into sound and video and i'll
say well why did i do that and then i'll
watch back and it'll all come clear
alright thanks for the question mm-hmm
what else you got for me alright so you
enjoying yourself so far yeah actually
as you're describing that there is a
spider on the wall that's wicked told
you I brought this fire oh my good is
there's a spider amazing she couldn't
plan that better yeah couldn't there
didn't you so you see you're like
cringing back here cuz there's a spider
yeah all right so he wasn't at ranch
ranch below though what's bigger was it
bigger yeah now Gary black widow so we
have a question from Pink Panther my
question is Panther my question is my
boon to 11 point 10 when i install
inside windows 8 pro already my pointing
driver error I can't use it how can you
help me hmm okay i'm not sure that i
entirely follow the question but if
you're talking about now sometimes if
you're running it as a virtual machine
with in linux can't quite understand
that end of it it sounds like you're
running a boon to and you're installing
windows 8 but i'm wondering if your may
be doing in this virtual machine if
you're talking about mouse pointer
integration with virtualbox so when you
boot up the machine it says that there's
a problem with mouse pointer integration
on that virtual machine you can safely
ignore that and it's okay if however
your mouse pointer is in fact
disappearing in Windows 8 which you know
we could that's neither here nor there
I'm sure that they're there are still
some bugs that their work
with the new operating systems that
hasn't officially been you know released
yet but what what some people have
encountered with with some of the bugs
that have to do with the mouse pointer
is it happens when let's say you have a
full screen game or something running or
full screen applications some people
have said well if you're using the new
interface switch to the old-style
interface and back again and it might
work or you may even bring up something
simple as a command prompt hit alt enter
which is going to blow that up full
screen so now you're in text mode and
then hit alt enter alt enter again and
it will bring it back down see if that
brings your mouse pointer back and if
not you know try something like Control
Alt Delete on windows 8 see if you have
a mouse pointer when it comes up to the
task manager and then close that and see
if the mouse pointer stays active but if
it's mouse pointer integration on
virtualbox you can safely ignore that
that's not a problem so I hope that one
of those is is helpful to you all right
ok let us know please so we have another
question from guest Terri how can I add
your feeds for video to XBMC ok well we
have what are called RSS feeds and the
RSS feeds on our website allow you to
basically use all different kinds of
devices and systems software aggregators
and things like that if you scroll down
a little ways you'll see this orange
button here which is the international
logo for RSS feeds or you can go this
show and you'll see RSS feeds and
subscriptions ok just for the sake of
the demonstration let's click on that
orange button that's going to take me
over there there are two different types
of feeds that we offer there's the main
one which is recommended those are on
the left and there's the alternate which
is not recommended but is available to
you if the main feed does not work for
you so start with the main feed find one
that you like so SD is for let's say you
have a smaller flat screen TV or you
don't need HD HD is going to be a larger
file slightly larger download but that
may be the one that you want is HD so
you would right click on that copy link
address
go over to XBMC bring up the videos
window and within the video I don't
unfortunately don't have XBMC running so
I can't show you but when you're in
videos you should see a button that
allows you to add content to that and
the the option will be to either browse
for local content or to paste a URL or
link or something so then you would
paste that link which is going to look
now if I paste this up here right now
looks like that right something like
that so when you've clicked on add
source just paste that in and that and
that should work that should work let us
know love to hear from you thanks for
question are you ready cuz it is news
time who I know you've been waiting you
know I put in all how many times i
pronouncing it wrong you're gonna study
all I could yeah Chris Reich are you
ready sir alright take it away okay so
here are the top stories from the
category 5 TV newsroom file sharing
website The Pirate Bay has moved its
servers to the cloud to frustrate
attempts to take it offline the site
which has been blamed for encouraging
illegal file-sharing will now operate
from cloud hosting providers around the
world it says the move will save money
and make it harder for law enforcement
agencies to shut it down all attempts to
attack us from now on is an attack on
everything and nothing it says in 2006
police in Sweden rated the Pirate Bay
shutting down at servers and taking the
site offline the pirate bay now says its
new cloud-based servers which use the
internet for storage do not have to be
hosted with the same provider or even on
the same continent making it impervious
to attempts to close it down skypes
video jam and then skypes video chat
software has been re-engineered to
radically cut its energy use on the
upcoming Windows 8 operating systems
hmmm the application is designed to stop
using the computers central processing
unit CPU when it is left to run in the
background it means users can receive
calls or instant messages without the
risk of exhausting their laptop battery
that's cool especially I mean it says
laptop in the in the news story but I'm
thinking also and most things are
tablets yes and that's exactly what
Windows 8 is going for ya so you want
lots and lots of battery life no kidding
very good hit on the battery dies and
use in the middle of something yep like
a chat conversation on skype alright so
the move may help skype compete against
luvu google talk and other rivals
surgeons have carried out the first-ever
robotic open heart operations in britain
at the New Cross Hospital in let me get
this wolverhampton sounds right The Da
Vinci robot is remotely controlled by
surgeons who are given a high-definition
view of the heart through a
sophisticated camera doctors claim the
operation is safer for patients than
combat conventional surgery a surgeon is
given a 3d high-definition view of the
heart and can move the arms of the robot
using a control panel each time they
move their hand three millimeters the
robot arm moves just one millimeter
Natalie Jones of Sturbridge 22 was the
first patient to have the procedure to
have a hole in her heart repaired the
robot can only be used sparingly because
it is very expensive each of its four
arms has tools costing 2,000 pounds
which have to be your place after just
ten operations ouch question for you
have you ever seen I robot I have uh huh
I wanted to cry yeah yeah but you
remember when the robots turned and
turned nasty yeah could you imagine this
thing coming after you no kidding I
don't know how I'd feel about having a
robot doing open-heart surgery yeah it
apparently it's good yeah but I can't
believe that price and that you can only
use it 10 times and then no guess what
two four six eight thousand patents
later well I guess as years go by them
and prove it so that it's not like a
retail operations you drink what causes
get better yeah it's like wow this is a
multi-billion dollar project but it's
very breakable be careful what if it
like broke down in the middle ear
surgery no oh no it's the surgery number
11
did everybody replace the arms goodness
me scary stuff how cool so the last in
the news is now you can hail a taxi like
it's 20 2012 passengers in Toronto using
an ayah boss and Android device can hail
the closest taxi regardless of what
company or root sign it has the closest
driver using the same app is alerted and
has 20 seconds to confirm the pick up
passengers know how long the driver will
take their name phone number and even a
writing rating out of 5 they can view
the Cavs location and also decide on the
tip and payment method in advance the
app has been designed to link passengers
with drivers while cutting out
dispatchers and their fees halo is
operating a toronto ontario london
england dublin ireland and hopes to
expand into new york boston and chicago
get the full stories that category 5 TV
/ newsroom category 5 T V dot sorry
category 5 DV newsroom is researched by
roy w nash with contributions by our
community of viewers if you have a news
story you think it's worthy of on-air
mention email newsroom at category five
dot TV for the category 5 TV news room
this is I'm epic kills me oh yeah wrap
that last part yeah room is is making
fun of me in saying it was the tools
that cost that much not the robot itself
and I and yeah but it's still a crazy
expensive robot system to do surgeries
but how cool Thank You Abigail thanks
John no Jack it's going while excellent
job I it's like a round resounding
applause in the chat room well done hey
tonight we've got some exciting stuff
we're gonna be looking at Zorin OS
Lubuntu 12-point see that thing that you
got over there again that thing you've
got your ballots and if you got your
ballots handy check this out this is the
Drac Oh headset from thermaltake TT
eSports I think you yeah it is an
eSports device yeah i saw a child and I
was like it is in sports right yeah I
know they're gorgeous I know how can you
see those amazing like sitting listening
with the 10 then you'd be because this
kid
okay Wow so stick around have your
ballots ready if you're at a fifth
anniversary show you'll be able to
qualify for that cool did we have now
not to get into more questions but do we
have more questions just yeah there's
we've questioned we're doing our best to
make sure we attend to as many of them
as we possibly can we're going to take a
look at our feature tonight and if
there's time maybe we'll come back to a
couple questions so just have that at
the ready all right we'll do our best
and join us in chat room category five
on freenode we'd love to have you there
so today a little bit earlier Abigail I
actually took the liberty of installing
side by side using VirtualBox because
VirtualBox is brilliant for this I
installed side by side 1 2 12 point 10
mm hm as well as Zorin OS 6 wanted to
see you know is there a difference in
the install process and trying to look
at it from an end user standpoint now
ubuntu and Zorin OS are both linux-based
operating systems you can download them
for free now the Zorn OS that I want to
use is called the ultimate edition so
it's something that you pay I think it's
10 euros for to donate to the project to
help them through now I do notice that
ubuntu with 12 point 10 they're in fact
soliciting donations as well so it's
becoming more and more common so when I
talk about Zorin OS you know wanting a
10-10 euro donation well now you go to a
boon to and you go to get ubuntu desktop
and tell it what one you want and the
first thing that you see is there
actually soliciting more donations so
you don't have to donate you can say not
now take me to the download and that'll
get you there but so just just to say
that you know it is becoming more and
more common for distributions to say you
know what help us out help us you know
here bhuntu is saying okay well or
canonical is saying well you can help
make the desktop more amazing actually
put your two dollars toward the desktop
for example now Zorin OS is approach is
a little bit different they just say 10
euros if you want the best that we have
to offer it's got every
come out of the box and it works yeah
it's got mp3 playback flash all that
stuff you don't have to monkey with any
hidden stuff in the repositories it's
all just there out of the box or if you
don't want to spend the 10 euros you can
download the free version it's little
strip back but it'll get you there it'll
get you up and running so both are very
very good products installing them
side-by-side let's let's take a look at
how this went down so I actually
accelerated this quite substantially so
bhuntu is on the left and Zorin OS is on
the right so you can see immediately
that Ubuntu got to the installation a
little bit faster has a nice desktop
background as opposed to Zorn's just
plain grey background but the installers
themselves are pretty much identical so
now see Zorin OS has got some fancy
video stuff going on not that that
really matters but it's kind of sleek I
like some of the things that they're
doing going through this process Abigail
what I'm finding is that Linux is no
longer an elite operating system to
install you could download this and
install this on your computer let's say
you you have windows on your system
you're not you don't really care if you
hold on to windows as long as you've got
something that'll get you online and get
up and running so you could download
either one of these and be up and
running in as long as it's taking on
your screen here with the acceleration
you'll see it took about I think 10-15
minutes to install I didn't I
unfortunately to make note of what time
it was that we started there people who
are watching that will see the actual
real time that clock is the real time
clock from the top right of my screen
you see the installation process is
extremely simple for both products again
ubuntu 12.10 s which horn OS is a LT s
release it's based on 12 point 0 4 and
that means that it has five years of
support now lubuntu is finished
installing and so I said let's reboot
but then it froze during the reboot pros
no problem there we go okay now Zorin OS
is done Zorin OS went through the reboot
no problem so I just actually kicked the
Ubuntu system into a full reboot we're
going to boot it up a little bit faster
and is in and there we go up and running
just like that so in a matter of you
know about 15 minutes I was able to
install both operating systems you could
install just one or the other so tonight
what I want to do is I want to kind of
bring up each one of these take a little
bit of a look at what each one is so
this is a boon to 12 point 0 for now
unfortunately it's true that Ubuntu is
not performing very well under virtual
box when I click on something and we've
had this happen on the show before where
we really want a demo lubuntu but it
does not work very well in a virtual
machine that shouldn't be a deciding
factor Ubuntu because it's unfortunate
it's the way that it will appear to you
on the screen will seem slow but is a
boon to actually slow I don't think so
not not when it's installed as a native
operating system on your computer's it's
actually going to run quite well but
it's different it feels like it's a
touchscreen designed operating system
you'll see that everything's kind of
down on the left your dash home here
takes you into this dash where you in
fact kind of search for the applications
that you want mm-hmm I don't pretend to
know my way around unity very well
because I actually I had it installed on
my on my office system when unity was
fairly young that was my production
system was in a boon to system and I
after about two or three months of
running at just decided this is not for
me yeah and that's that's me I'm not
into this at all so if I wanted to run
Firefox of course I would just type in
fire fo x and it starts searching and it
also searches out on the web and it
searches for applicable things that are
available there we go we've got movie
suggestions with the word Firefox in
them that it gets off the internet what
is nice about unity in that regard with
the search features of the dash home
right out of the box it will use you
know if you've got a video library that
it's connected to it will search your
your videos so it becomes this all in
one search that instantly gets you
access to anything but then if i want to
just launch Firefox I just kind of click
on it they're very very I'm not giving
you a tutorial on how to use unity
doesn't that by any means but you can
see the difference here as a Windows
user stepping into something like this
or myself as a linux user I have trouble
with this with this design mm-hmm would
you I guess it would take some getting
used to definitely fiction get used to
it the windows my wife runs unity on her
system she's running a boon to 12 point
oh four she has a unity she has gotten
to the point where she where it's usable
but really you know all of the the most
commonly used applications happen to be
on the the panel on the left yeah so she
doesn't really use the dash a whole lot
she just uses the panel so a pretty
simple use case for a power user I don't
I don't know how you would like it I'd
love to hear in the chat room what you
think about that kind of desktop that
kind of interface now I'd like to
actually take a look at Sorna lesson and
keeping in mind that yes unity lubuntu
don't perform very well in this
particular scenario but Zorin OS really
does I don't think that that should be
the deciding factor though mm-hmm this
is zorn OS version 6 out of the box it
looks very very similar to what well
like windows right windows 7 kinda yeah
has a very very similar feel to windows
seven but it has the organizational
structure of Linux which I love because
if you click on internet for example
there are you all your internet
applications there's no clutter there's
no sub folders on unsub folders and
subfolders and read Me's and
uninstallers and this and that and all
that kind of junk is just it's nice and
clean so now to click on google chrome i
would assume that it's just going to
bring up Chrome what do I want to do
make google chrome my default
automatically send usage okay won't
start google chrome first time I've ever
run it right this is a clean install
mm-hmm
we go up and running pretty quick yeah I
think for me we've talked about it on
the show chatroom you can tell us your
thoughts but one of the things about
Zorin OS is that it really seems to me
like a really excellent introduction to
Linux for users but not only that it is
a powerful linux operating system that
would allow power users to enjoy
themselves it's very customizable it's
very not locked down like unity is and
I'm not doing unity hating I'm just my
personal opinion and the experience
today of actually doing this Smitty
Smith is complaining the Zorn OS six you
can't have a true classic gnome
interface so is it gnome 3 then I wonder
it does include some pretty interesting
features I like this because it feels
like the kind of distro that al is kind
of it keeps the user in mind a little
bit more it's not pushing you toward any
kind of one or the other thing it's it's
a user environment that is designed for
the user you know what I mean does that
make sense well I think if you used to
windows to like that looks like I think
that's something I'd have better luck
working then the air the other one i'm
gonna click on gnome 2 in Zoran look
changer let's see what happens here so I
would say that is awfully close I mean
there is they're known to kind of mock
up so you see with Azure an OS you can
make it look like any distro or any
operating system it's it's got even the
ability to look like unity apparently so
I guess whatever you're comfortable with
Zorin OS gives you the option that all
of unity doesn't work on oh here comes
oh look at that Wow so it's actually
kinda similar it's kind of creepy
let's get out of that real quick even
windows 2000 Mac OS 10 windows XP kind
of styling so coming from any different
operating system different distribution
I think Zorro s really gives you a
chance to try to tweak it that's out of
the box allowing you to just simply
change the way that it looks you know if
you prefer windows XP the look well here
you go but I do like the gnome to
feature as well is that does that for
the viewer who was saying that there is
no like Smitty Smith do you think that
that looks pretty close the classic know
when I did it let's take a look at this
is the windows XP Mode so all
applications there you go pretty close
mmm that's smart I gotta say I mean for
any user who says to you know I can't
try linux because I could never get used
to it unity is just too weird well here
you go okay so here's the gnome 2 again
the gnome 2 version it's it's a mock-up
of you know to look like gnome 2 mm-hmm
I'd say that's pretty good what do you
guys think in the chat room everybody so
back at Lubuntu so the installation of
either/or were brilliant both of them
were really really simple to do during
the installation of ubuntu I had to say
yes I want to install things like mp3
support and download my updates and
things or no s just did it all because
it knew that I want to fully operating
system everything is there everything's
in place and it's good to go so I'm not
making any decisions tonight I'm just
kind of showing you what things look
like out of the box what would you say
Abby as a as a now I know your Windows
user so I wouldn't think that you're
going to lean towards or an OS yeah I
would definitely yeah it's just you can
pick different ways to have it to like
you could you could get used to the
other ways but sure I mean it's close to
windows 7 which is what I use so if we
switch to windows seven mon with zoran
look changer when it's not so confusing
yeah it looks awfully it's not um it's
not a mockery of windows seven it's not
insulting to linux it's really just it
makes it easier for people to migrate I
think yeah definitely but you can also
switch it to if you want to do like the
unity style or a Mac whatever style you
yeah great so I'll meet ya I like that
one she likes that one folks it's got my
approval so if somebody says to you i
want to try linux but i'm afraid to
because the it's so much different or
something like that maybe this is a good
opportunity for you to try I don't know
that unity is there yet I don't know if
it will be I feel like it's it's still
too far of a stretch but maybe when
windows 8 comes out and people start to
get used to those types of interfaces
that are that feel more like they're
designed for touch yeah maybe that'll
change things but I still like the
thought of a nice desktop operating
system yeah to be you don't mouse
operator them to operate that way we're
getting much feedback in the chat room
at all yeah just JP is saying that
they're gonna definitely try Zorin OS
hmm give it a try absolutely i'll give
you the links in the show notes for
episode number 266 Lubuntu of course is
ubuntu com Zorin OS is Zoran dash OS
calm as I was saying you can download it
for free if you would like okay or you
can go premium and you can do what I've
done and get that Ultimate Edition which
gives you a lot of bonus stuff and it's
only there it is as a download for 10
year oh okay awesome whatever you think
yeah Linux is an alternative to
Microsoft Windows it gives you the
opportunity to run something that's free
on your system and by free i mean
freedom as well as sometimes price you
can get free versions of Zorin OS can
get free versions of ubuntu but when i
say free i'm talking about the freedom
to actually own your own computer
legitimately Microsoft Windows I mean we
remember windows XP you wanted to make
it customize the look and you have
installed window blinds because
Microsoft does not let you change the
look of the operating system so it's
like you're you're still tied down you
don't realize until you get that freedom
to change the look and to really impact
that now that it's all about the look
it's about the freedom to be able to
change if you want to make it a little
bit more custom no viruses mm-hmm you
don't have to worry about that kind of
thing which is brilliant well be good
even to just to experiment to see if you
like it like the different styles so if
you're afraid to try it for real do what
I've done in just installed VirtualBox
and install it in a virtual machine give
it a try like I said Soren OS does
perform a lot better in virtualbox than
Ubuntu does what a boon to does perform
well as a native operating system that's
just the way that it seems to be that's
what I'm saying Rob Rob Gore in the chat
room just mentioned you know the malware
and spyware pop-ups viruses all that
stuff isn't an issue so if you're on
Windows and you have those problems and
you're sick of them you can switch tues
or no s for example or a boon to and
still have a great experience you're
still using the same internet browser if
you want you can use Firefox or Chrome
or whatever and you're it's a great
experience mhm but none of that stuff so
thanks everybody for for your comments
in the chat room I'm going to watch back
over the over the chat logs after the
show and if you'd like to check out the
chat logs you can check out the IRC logs
on our website category 5 TV 4 episode
number 266 we've got an awesome prize to
give away it is she's like it
congratulations to our prize winners so
far I was pleased to talk to Carly who
picked up the the awesome thermaltake
bag last week the that amazing laptop
bag I'm trying to remember it's like a
it the name is awesome the battle dragon
bag that was the one who went out last
week so really excited to have everybody
participating in the prize giveaways now
get your ballots ready you picked up a
ballot at our fifth anniversary show so
get that number out you want yeah
huh all right you guys see these oh yeah
those are awesome well shake it up shake
it up get it up here here let's here we
go we're starting to get kind of slim on
ballots here folks so get those ready if
you still got a ballot this could be you
all right you can go headphones from TT
esports thermaltake USA com there was
over a hundred bucks they're amazing
what do we got all right so the winner
is Donna 865 685 865 685 you're the
winner of these draconi thermaltake USA
com thank you to thermaltake for sending
these in for your listening pleasure all
you have to do is pop as an email live
at category 5 TV this week you've got 30
days to claim your prize make sure you
hold on to that ballot we're going to
need to see it and pops Nina live at
category 5 TV to claim that or give us a
phone call to 545 cat5 TV thanks I
magellan is everybody this is category 5
technology TV i'm your host Robbie
Ferguson and Abigail Smith it's Abigail
folks you check over bio on our website
category 5 TV click on about us and
you'll see our our team and Abigail's
bio is there awesome gee pop 7 says
that's not my number then watch next
week we have other prizes to give away
fantastic thanks everybody we've got
time for possibly one more quick
question quickly you'll have you got one
that seems like it may be a fast one
thanks everybody hey this question might
be yours Albert how do I know what are
we getting mistakes chat room alright so
I'm just trying to find when we have you
have a long one no quick easy Oh what's
the picture there we love receiving
pictures one of our viewers there hmm
Dennis Kelly
watching us category five TV in Texas
I'm gonna see if I can bring that up on
my screen here Dennis Kelly always a
pleasure to have you here and everybody
who's joining us tonight thank you very
very much for being here with us let's
see if I can bring this up save this to
my desktop just try to keep your email
addresses private here Dennis Kelly
watching the show from Texas well hello
there Dennis Kelly good to see you hello
yeah thanks for sending in a picture and
I see the show up there looks like
you've got a netbook or something down
below for chat room and good little
setup there for you so thanks everybody
for for watching the show tonight that's
you know pretty much all the time we
have we've got a couple moments so we
can talk a little bit about you a little
bit about me again yeah go back to the
interview yeah oh yeah I know we need to
we need to say these things okay you can
say that will say this she needs mm-hmm
category five dot TV is a member of the
tech podcast network if it's tech it's
here and the international association
of internet broadcast earth earth thanks
to all of our affiliates and sponsors we
love everybody for being a part of the
show and I just want to give big shouts
out and thanks to quarter electric
tonight the official electrical company
of category 5 technology TV for all of
their help with the show also get your
free one month trial of netflix at cat
five dot TV / netflix and do keep
watching our website we've got lots of
wonderful sponsors who take care of the
show and and are here to keep it going
for you so that you know this this is a
free service for you the viewers and
that's the way we keep it so but that
said we do accept and appreciate all the
donations that have been sent in I want
to say thank you to those who have sent
in donations this week and over the past
little while it's really what keeps the
show going and keeps everything strong
here and looking around I mean it's it's
a cool cool set up and we do our best to
have a
a nice-looking show and to have a lot of
fun with you and answer your questions
so listen gwg was just asking if you're
going to talk about lame is worried she
was saying that no I want to check it
out but I was saying that lame is is
coming to musical video production like
Anne Hathaway emily is that what it is
why I saw that okay see I haven't really
excited I would be yeah when I saw Lane
is the original movie I was disappointed
that it wasn't the musical because I had
seen the musical to the kid yeah yeah
and felt a fallen in love with it so
then when I saw the movie i was
expecting the musical and it wasn't the
musical it was still fantastic but it
was the story it wasn't the musical I
think this is the musical and cuz when
you watch the trailer they're singing
and all that stuff yeah how cool is that
so I I can't wait to see that I mean I
love the the Phantom of the Opera and
what they did with that so it's anywhere
near that level of quality I'll be very
very pleased so it's for the tip gwg
everybody's gonna go Google or YouTube
the the trailer yeah the lame is it up
that's gonna be fantastic can't wait gee
pop 7 nice to see you invincible mutant
thanks for being here Garvey wonderful
having you here tonight live and meal
1976 Albert R and almost hit Emile's
1976 the second time like in that amount
of time led zep yeah it'd 1965 a nice
having everybody here great having you
here ok thanks for having me did you
enjoy yourself it's fun I'm kind of like
dying with his place but yeah
yeah fun all right google person link
there you go hey we've already got the
IMDb their links it off fantastic okay
everybody have a fantastic week we're
going to be back next week sash sad that
our mate this is going to be joining me
here in studio but you won't recognize
it because it's our Halloween special so
don't miss it next Tuesday night seven
o'clock right here category five TV have
a fantastic week zeba see bye have a
good night
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check has the local
show times in your area at category five
TV and find out when you can watch live
and interact in the community chat work
9-5 is a production of prodigy digital
solutions and his licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
you next time thanks for tuning in
