here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom NASA
is going back to the moon with plans for
a space station to be built within ten
years and they're tapping into private
businesses to make it happen
Microsoft has announced that it is
enabling users to log into their
Microsoft accounts without usernames and
passwords Microsoft's own surface book
too is afflicted by blue screen of death
errors following the most recent
software updates and Nintendo has
relaxed its rules for video makers who
shape the share of their game gameplay
on websites such as twitch and YouTube
if these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere this is the category 5
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories
Linux bias Jeff Westen Yellin you're
building a brand-new beautiful website
what are you you're a terrible actor
what this where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host I'm
Sacha Rickman in here at the top stories
were following this week NASA is going
back to the moon with plans for a space
station to be built within ten years and
they're tapping into private businesses
to make it happen the announcement on
future moon flights came just three days
after NASA successfully landed in sight
spacecraft on Mars nASA has announced
that it will be private companies that
will make America's next moon landing
NASA Administrator Jim bridenstine said
Thursday that nine American companies
will compete to carry experiments to the
surface of the Moon the Space Agency
said in a statement that the goal is to
bring money many science and technology
experiments to the moon as soon as
possible the first such flight could
come as early as next year in 2019 NASA
and people across the United States will
mark the 50th anniversary of the first
manned landing on the moon the last time
humans visited the moon was in 1972
during NASA's Apollo 17 mission NASA
officials say the goal of the planned
space flight is to transport equipment
for performing experiments and
collecting information about the moon
some of the companies are expected to
develop small launch vehicles or robotic
Rovers to explore its surface the
research is meant to get help to help
astronauts get back to the moon more
quickly and keep them safer
once they arrived the space agency says
that it will award a total of 2.6
billion dollars to private businesses
for the moon effort over the next 10
years bridenstine said that nasa wants a
lot of companies involved to strengthen
competition he also said he has he
expects the people to have have
regularly working on the moon within 10
years the new partnership is modeled
after another NASA program that uses
private companies to transport supplies
to the International Space Station or
ISS SpaceX and Northup Grumman have made
made ISS shipments since 2012 SpaceX and
Boeing are planned to start transporting
astronauts to the space station sometime
next year NASA has said it expects work
on a new Space Station laboratory to
start as soon as 2020 to the new space
station would orbit the moon but it is
also expected to serve as a launching
point for missions to other parts of the
solar system including the planet Mars
wow this is cool it's starting remember
go for a while yeah but like it was the
70s when we last went to the moon 1972 I
want them to use light are can they use
light are there what would you use light
are for I don't know couldn't we use
lighter before - there's not a lot of
trees on the moon ya know but can't you
use it to go subterranea no not to that
degree
oh it's lighter is going to is basically
for surface measuring so so you'd see
like the rivets and the the canyons and
things like that
mm-hmm but its surface could you
discover khaosan yeah I suppose but
there's not the surface of the Moon
already - for the most part yeah when
did they do that
well like you can find maps of the moon
all over the place like oh there's this
critter here there's like they're
regularly studying the moon it'd be
interesting once there's a space station
orbiting the moon though I think about
an orbit and I think about how the
distance side of the moon because the
moon doesn't rotate right how it's good
Dark Side of the Moon the
is kind of oh great we just done
monetized luckily it wasn't recognizable
there right but it's kind of a mystery
to us yeah that's true in a lot of ways
that is true there are probably aliens
on the other side of the Moon I I don't
think that no no but what I do like
about this is that it is pushing the
limits of our research and Technology
the fact that they want people to do
experiments on the moon within the next
you know several years is neat 2022 is
not far off - no it's not but I mean
like if you think about those two twins
that went into space or the one went
into space the was on earth and how
their genetic makeup change yeah in
space it would be great to see how you
know we do experiments here on earth and
how being in a zero-gravity an
environment would change things and is
that going to change the way that we
look at physics and all that kind of
stuff it'd be very interesting to see
how it pushes the envelope to say what
is possible at the same time though I go
there's probably gonna be some stupid
person who's gonna go hey let's use
those rocket boosters and see how high
we can get and they're doing a solo
spacesuit mission well that would be the
end of the stupid person people don't
make it all the way to the moon maybe
but you seem pretty intelligent to make
it all the way to the moon a billion
dollars gonna be enough like I feel like
just a rocket knowledge is like a
hundred million or something just for
all the fuel and everything you know
what SpaceX has been working on reusable
yes--that's argit's which is a huge deal
drives the cost lower oh man does it
ever and and being able to go up and
down and up and down like that's
revolutionary that's changing I can
change things for sure I think for me
what is so exciting is this is now three
weeks that we've had new nos NASA story
exactly new information about missions
to Mars yes now the moon like what was
last week last week was Mars wasn't it
last week was my Rover I think and there
was a there was
yeah this is the third week NASA yeah
but I love space exploration I love it I
love you wait until it starts I know
still feel because as a Star Trek fan I
feel like we're like we're just small
here on earth earth is small and we're
small on earth see that country from
from insight looking back from almost to
Mars looking back toward Earth and
seeing the moon and seeing earth this
big in the picture you think oh my
goodness yeah yeah that is astonishing
like this that that picture blows my
mind because I have to put myself into
the fact that that is reality that's a
real picture the first time in history
and and mankind has mankind has done
that it's pretty cool it's exciting what
could come space exploration and
everything else space exploration and
deep-sea exploration are both my
favorite rings me as well yeah as a fan
of Seaquest I feel like we're gonna
conquer space before we conquer the sea
though do you really think so yeah huh I
don't know because the sea is finite it
is but we don't spend enough time
exploring the sea where space it's like
oh we don't have a space station
orbiting the moon yeah and we may have a
station of some sort on Mars at some
point hopefully within my lifetime
because I'd be really proud to be a part
of that I will yeah just don't croak in
the next 10 years I hope not and on that
note dark Microsoft has announced that
it is enabling users to log into their
passwords
instead of passwords which the tech
behemoth has previously described as
inconvenient insecure and expensive
windows
users can switch to physical security
keys or biometrics based
windows hello for authentication
Microsoft's announcement says this
combination of ease-of-use security and
broad industry support is going to be
transformational every month more than
800 million people use a Microsoft
account to create connect and share from
anywhere to Outlook Office onedrive Bing
Skype and Xbox Live for work and play
and now they can all benefit from this
simple user experience and greatly
improved security beyond the security
key there are also the options to verify
users with Windows window Hallows fate
iris or fingerprint recognition as well
as with the help of the Microsoft
Authenticator app for Android and iOS
don't rush to forget your Windows
password just yet however there may be a
few things to do or eventually buy
before you can possibly consign your
password to history and use biometrics
or PIN to access services such as
outlook office Skype onedrive and Xbox
Live the new authentication option will
work only on the company's edge browser
which began to support the web Osun
password free logins standard earlier
this year you also need the latest
Windows 10 version which is version 1809
also known as the October 2018 updates
also known known as living hell
right when I read that earlier I was
like hmm you need to use come on now
ok so earlier today I realized that I
couldn't remember my password and I
thought to myself biometrics that would
be a thing that would be a good thing
but would you use edge I would never use
that come on now but I would however
probably trust my fingerprint more than
I trust my brain I feel like in and
that's it like our phones now our
biometric based I'm I'm actually I
bought my coffee from Starbucks today
using biometrics which was cool there's
a first time I've ever done that so I
had to actually put my fingerprint on
the finger
scanner and it charged my accountant and
I'm done and now my coffee is paid for
and I drove away right I was happy it's
really neat and I'll eventually get a
free one after 10 coffees which is kind
of neat
I like that yeah so biometrics is
comfortable we're kind of living in that
world now I felt like Microsoft edge
Microsoft to say okay we're going to
there they're saying we're gonna
innovate but really this is just
catching up to what is expected of you
now as a software vendor but and I'm
limiting you this is like when ActiveX
came out like that ridiculous see I feel
like maybe this is an incorrect
assessment but to me it feels like Mark
Microsoft is always behind the game and
they're trying to play catch-up by
forcing you into their stuff you know
what Microsoft is notorious for is
absolutely and we're gonna talk about it
yes and also but they're also notorious
for thinking that they can push
technology they can they can't they're
not good they're not Google and I say
that with all due respect there was a
time when Microsoft was innovator yeah
and the leader that's not who Microsoft
is anymore Microsoft is now a follower
and and as a follower they think that
they can continue to lead and they and
they cannot do that with the old mindset
the old mindset was Mac versus Windows
and so if you're on Windows you will do
it the way that we say right way that we
set it up for you right now there are
other options out there Microsoft sorry
so I'm using Google Chrome I'm not about
to switch to Microsoft edge there is no
way in heck I would second that I hate
using Bing Oh Bing is garbage so it's
horrible you think about that might as
well go back to Ask Jeeves oh my
goodness funny about error but Microsoft
still has that old mindset where they
think that by container izing the
features this this is where Nintendo was
a year ago
yes Nintendo was here a year ago and day
finally wising up they're starting to
because people have backlashed right can
I ask a question that is more about the
biometric side of things sure so for
security reasons because they they said
that it's more secure to use biometrics
my question to you is could and I just
imagine this happening maybe from movies
I don't know
could somebody reassign your
fingerprints as their fingerprint or
reassign yes right what it scary thing
is yeah he can unlock my phone yeah he's
my twin see that's my question
facial recognition through photos or
videos like that right or can you like
hack into somebody's system and make
your iris now their iris so that they
can never get into their stuff only you
can we've had talks with security
professionals in the past here on the
show get onto our website category 5 TV
I wish I had it ready for you but I
wasn't wasn't ready for the question but
we have had that discussion where it's
like who are you Yeah right like certain
like phishing scams and everything
ransomware they go out and they randomly
pick people they're completely random
because it's easy it's there's not any
effort that goes into it from the hacker
standpoint to get you to cough up some
Bitcoin mm-hmm when it comes to
biometrics how difficult and how much
labor and money and an ability has to go
into forging someone's fingerprints and
iris in order to access their devices
you have to be that I'm not that person
right I'm not that person who would be
susceptible to that attack now if I was
the president of a financial institution
I might be that person right then I
would need to worry about those types of
attacks and so I would presumably have
protection in place for those things
mm-hmm it's bernal recenter tips but do
you know what I mean I'm not that person
that they're gonna invest in hacking my
Google account
it's still I guess it's just worrisome
to me because I think to myself I would
delve right into this because I have a
hard time remembering my passwords and I
have a password manager that I locked
myself out of because I can't remember
that password so I think when it comes
to biometrics there needs to be a
fail-safe of you know what's the way to
log in and what's the way to fake login
so that you lock your account like ie
like with your fingers say you use your
index finger to unlock your phone but
you set your middle finger as the one
that locks down your device so if you
you know like say you're you know it was
brought up in the chat room you know
you're crossing the border and a country
says if you want to come in you need to
unlock your phone we need to see what's
on there and you go here you just you
know you use the finger some phone lock
says sorry again I don't know and then
they shoot you in the face well Jeff you
gotta be careful man not that far but no
like I mean but that does bring into
question the idea if all of your devices
are locked by biometrics at what point
from a legal standpoint can the law
enforcement push the envelope because
that's a whole new avenue of being able
to get in I mean you've got the
encryption and how many phones have now
gone to courts where the police is like
we need access to the phone we got to
get the fingerprint well they already
take your fingerprints when you go there
they already have them they can unlock
all your stuff that's not the same I way
yeah but there's laws with all that and
if you use it ever honestly then it
kinda gates anything they find on there
they can't use it in a small core blob
of all the kind of stuff but it does
bring in a question like how much of our
stuff do we want to be accessible by one
access point it's no different than
saying you don't want the same password
for all your devices mm-hmm you don't
want the same password to login to
everything because once that's
compromised you're toast
my fingerprint is one password but but
if everything was soothingly difficult
borderline impossible for an average for
now person to hack that yep but and it
is to factor because they have to have
my device but it doesn't change the fact
that it's still possible I mean the
amount of people that say oh it's never
gonna happen to me and they go yeah I
got caught I mean how many companies go
we've got nothing perfect
leading-edge security nobody's gonna
hack our database nobody will say that
these days nobody would say the price
days but so how can make the say that
they're liars that's how we know they're
liars when I get emails when my
customers get emails saying we can get
you on the first page of Google
guaranteed okay you're a liar yeah so I
know immediately because of that
guarantee they will guarantee you are a
liar so I don't trust you automatically
because nobody can make that guarantee
unless I'm paying through the teeth for
ads right and I can do that myself
without you yeah I I still I still bring
it in a question I mean I don't think
everything should be linked to
biometrics okay I don't I know that
that's the way the world is going but I
I think at the end of the day if you
have everything length your biometrics
all it takes is one breach and
everything is accessible to me just to
wrap up the thought my phone when I use
my fingerprint to unlock my phone mm-hmm
every so many times it requires me to
also enter my pin that's actually true
of my phone as well if my down is turned
off I have to use my pin in order to
turn it back on yes yes so it is to
factor I cannot turn on my phone without
my pen and I cannot unlock my phone
without either my pin or my fingerprint
so I have to have both of those things
pin fingerprint to doctor plus I have to
have the device which is actually three
factor authentication because I have to
have but in order to do it unless you
have the service set up where you can
activate it through say like if you got
a samsung phone that the Samsung service
it's just like I don't have that no I
know but I'd like that
it's a it's no different like calling
OnStar and saying unlock my car it's the
same deal I don't know anything about it
Jeff okay we'll find that but I'll tell
you why there's nothing that is perfect
these days I think every effort needs to
be made in order to secure your devices
and your accounts sure exactly all that
you can do so it's really just educating
ourselves we have an extremely
intelligent community we'd love to know
your comments please email us or comment
below if you're watching this on youtube
that would be fantastic let us know your
thoughts about how you secure your
devices obviously without giving
all the secrets right don't tell us your
password yeah yeah but we'd love to know
what do you recommend in a case like
doubting Thomas over here who thinks
that nothing can ever be secure or a
case like me where I need it to be easy
enough that I can actually access my
stuff mommy who is so trusting that I
buy my coffee with my fingerprint right
so Microsoft's own surface book too is
affected by the afflicted by the blue
screen of death errors following the
most recent software updates if you're
running a surface book - you might want
to hold off on the latest cumulative
update that is making owners irate the
blue screen of death first began
occurring on the devices shortly after
the update kv-4 4-6 7-6 a - was pushed
out during last Tuesday's updates this
update is for users of the 1803 build of
Windows 10 also known as the April 2018
update it contains several fixes as well
as including some issues relating to the
seekbar in Windows Media Player and some
dotnet problems add to that list
Rick's your surface book - to the point
where you have to reinstall windows it
isn't a good thing for Microsoft's
flagship laptop especially this close to
Christmas with a high price tag users
right might write expect that user that
Microsoft's own device should showcase
the very best of how Windows should be
while the patch can be uninstalled
because it blue screen so quickly some
users have had to resort to reinstalling
the operating system from scratch wow
this is the very company we're talking
about who makes the operating system and
they make advice and they brick their
own device can you imagine this this is
happening to you and so you try to login
and try to remove that KB and yeah just
like that so you just need to have a
better product testing department they
fire or they need to have a product
testing
like I just I think how many stories
have we covered we're like somehow they
royally mess it up like I think of the
the AI chatbot that went really racist
really quick Microsoft's yeah yeah yeah
they had to pull the plug on that pretty
quickly yeah like just about it I just
don't like that they do these updates
that ruin my life at work and this is a
case where okay this is 1803 so that
means people who are not early adopters
right they're still on April's
exact laughs yeah I have had their
devices bricked
but these are the modern system from
Microsoft so you would think you would
be safe buying the you know yeah I get
hope so yeah you're not no you're not
sorry folks you're not Nintendo has
share their gameplay on websites such as
twitch and YouTube unlike Microsoft and
Sony Nintendo has restricted what it let
video makers share online and took a
slice of advertising revenue from
youtubers its new guidelines lift most
of the restrictions and no longer us are
asking gaming vloggers to register for
Nintendo's revenue sharing scheme
Nintendo said it was humbled by its fans
loyalty many video makers had complained
about Nintendo's policy and avoided
sharing gameplay videos online because
the company often filed copyright claims
on the content the company said in a
statement as long as you follow some
basic rules we will not object to your
use of gameplay footage and/or
screenshots captured from games which
Nintendo owns the copyright he points in
the new guidelines say one gamers will
be able to share videos playing Nintendo
software as long as they include their
own creative input or commentary to
video makers will be allowed to earn
advertising revenue from their videos
using approved schemes including
YouTube's partner program and the twitch
partner program and three uploading raw
gameplay videos without any commentary
will not be allowed except for sharing
short screen captures using the built in
tools on the
and Oh switch the changes were announced
shortly before the release of Super
Smash Brothers ultimate this Friday
which is expected to be a popular title
for online streamers hmm that's cool so
now we get to start our Nintendo switch
channel oh yeah and I have a switch
bring it next week we'll say okay I'll
bring anything I'm gonna test them and
we will find out if this is legit and
we'll see if we D monetize that video
okay III would be interested to know
what their definition of commentary is
for instance if you upload a one-hour
video right at the beginning you say
this is me playing my Nintendo switch
I'm playing this game no nope doesn't
work that well I I know it doesn't but
at what point do they take the creative
element out of and go sorry you didn't
say enough individual comments we're not
letting you do that no I think it's just
it's like royalty free music like I
can't I can't just publish the music
online and let people download it from
my website yes it's free yes it's
royalty free and you can download it for
free but if I want to distribute it and
redistribute it I have to put something
into it so whether I rap along or sing
along or add my own talking over top and
you write as a music that underneath
that's okay but if I upload a gameplay
footage and you get to hear everything
and see everything and there's nobody
talking and and and reacting to it then
that's where they have an issue see what
I think I've been feel horrible for
saying this and somebody's probably
gonna you know yell at me on YouTube
because we're gonna get a bunch of kids
going so I'm playing my game and gotten
to me it already happens I know but it's
like that's like that's do you know what
sucks is that we are trying to compete
against those people I love that sort of
stuff oh I'm sorry I don't if I'm gonna
watch a review I want it to be
informative and be like okay so this is
how are you running into you want to go
here do this right right right right
but you're an adult I know my kids like
my 8 year old absolutely loves watching
kids doing stuff on YouTube that's
and I'm watching cats and and if I was
that parent of those children who were
making those videos I'd be so proud that
they're doing it but they're yeah that's
the College Fund right there they've
monetized their own stuff the top
earners on YouTube are kids
essentially like they're just playing
video games or unboxing toys I know yeah
according to coin gecko here's what the
crypto market looked like as of looks
like about 1800 hours while we shot this
Wednesday December 5th 2018 this week
Bitcoin went down even further three
thousand seven hundred twenty two
dollars u.s. that is a drop of about
four hundred and sixty nine dollars over
last time so it continues to decline of
course Bitcoin being what controls the
market it is affecting other coins as
well like coin is down to twenty nine
dollars and forty cents per light coin
that's a loss of five dollars and ten
cents u.s. etherium is down to 103 56
which is a loss of eighteen dollars and
eleven cents everything's going down
including Manero which is really hurting
right now fifty-two dollars and 74 cents
per Manero when I started mining Manero
it was up about two hundred bucks so
that's another loss of about ten dollars
and thirty-six cents over the past seven
days stellite the little guys they're
pretty static this week they're at two
dollars and or pardon me not two dollars
and fifty six two point five six ten
thousandth of a cent these are really
little coins turtle coin and so that's
about what they had last week two point
five seven is last week's total turtle
coin down as well lost point fourteen
ten thousandth of a cent so that is
putting them at zero point four to ten
thousands of us and knowing that turtle
coin for example is base the value of
turtle coin is based on stellite which
is a billionth I believe of a Bitcoin
yep so because bitcoin is down of course
you just see other currencies like
turtle coin go down as well because it's
based on that so you can think of the US
dollar and how the Canadian dollar
really plays on to the US dollar and our
value of our currency here in Canada is
based upon
value of how it matches up to the US
dollar right so similarily that's what
we see with cryptocurrency as well Jeff
last week you had some commentary that
you wanted to add and I cut you off and
after the show we had a little bit of
talk what do you think is affecting
cryptocurrency right now I don't
remember you don't remember the con I
don't remember the conversation talked a
little bit about it and and I theorized
and and you know I think that a lot of
it has to do with people not really
understanding how operates and how so
there's almost becoming a bit of a
stigma around cryptocurrency where
people start to think of it as a hacker
coin yes whenever I hear about
ransomware I hear Bitcoin is involved
well
Bitcoin and and various crypto
currencies being and Manero is a perfect
example of an untraceable coin so if
hacker were to encrypt your files and
demand monaro it's because they can't
you can't the government can't trace
that transaction they can't figure out
who you paid that to so that puts a
really bad spin on cryptocurrency and I
think that because the general
population really controls how much is
being invested and how much is being
mined and everything else then that
really has an impact on the current
standing that's true and one of the
other reasons so now that you've
mentioned that it's drawing my memory
okay one of the other reasons why I
believe that it's struggling is because
in the last couple of months we've had a
lot of environmental impact
conversations about the costs oh yes
mining Bitcoin and so for that reason
you've got people freaking out going
it's more costly to mine Bitcoin than it
is to physically mine gold
yeah the ratio and the dollar value so
you know it's stuff like that and people
are going why I'm I'm you know I'm
getting out of Bitcoin I don't want to
do that anymore
and it's like any other commodity when
people walk away their the value goes
down so what is interesting there is we
know that in Nvidia stocks are way down
yeah and they're struggling and so if
people are losing a little bit of faith
in their mining rig
now all of a sudden on the market the
market becomes saturated with users
video cards yes right right GPUs because
the mining rigs are shutting down if
that's presumably the case I I don't
know but there's a good theory for you
if the mining rig shut down well what do
I do I get on eBay and I sell off my
mining rig which is a bunch of great
GPUs ten seventies ten 80s and and
things like that so now Nvidia starts to
plummet because nobody's buying them
direct they're not buying the new cards
they're buying these used ones that have
been used for mining yeah it would be so
interesting to see if somebody came up
with a new coin that wasn't compared to
the Bitcoin it wasn't you know valued
against chateau she's because that tone
you see satoshis it'd be interesting to
see because right now everything is
linked to it so as it drops everything
else drops so if somebody came along and
said you know what we've got a whole new
claim it's based on a different
algorithm it's not even linked to that
it's a whole new way of looking at it
and to see how that takes off and
somebody goes oh if I throw my mining
rig into that think how much I can gain
and it changes the market well it would
be very interesting it'd be no different
than if if the global economy said you
know we're not we're no longer vested in
the US dollar we want to go to the euro
and if the euro became the benchmark
currency how it would change the game
yeah it'd be interesting to see and if
it could be done I don't know
regardless I mean it's the whole market
that's affected so just a reminder that
cryptocurrency is always volatile and is
always changing the values fluctuate we
give you a weekly stat as of today when
we're filming but realistically I mean
through the week it drops and it rises
and it drops and it rises the market
never closes it's not like the stock
market that closes at 5:00 p.m. and
everyone goes home no right it's 24/7 so
it's always changing and we will have
updates as they come for you thank you
and big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers from submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website
from the category 5 TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Rickman I'm Robbie Ferguson and
I'm Jeff Weston
[Music]
[Applause]
