here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom the
loss of an expensive Russian satellite
was due to an error in the coordinates
that were programmed into it at launch
Apple has apologized after facing
criticism for admitting it deliberately
slows down an ageing iPhone models
Google has developed a human-like
text-to-speech AI and as it turns out
the Nigerian prince is actually a 67
year old man from Louisiana these
stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere whether you shop on
ThinkGeek gearbest B&amp;H photo video eBay
or Amazon or even if you want a free
trial up audible you'll find the best
deals and support the shows we produce
by simply visiting the shopping sites
you already frequent by using the links
on our website visit category 5 TV slash
partners for the full and ever-growing
list and help us create more free
content like this show thank you for
shopping with our partners and thank you
for watching this is the category-five
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories with a slight linux bias
i'm sasha-ann here the top stories were
following this week the loss of an
expensive Russian satellite was due to
an error in the coordinates that were
programmed into it at launch the Russian
Deputy Prime Minister has said that the
loss of a multi-million dollar weather
satellite in November was due to
programming errors dimitri rug rigs odin
said meteor m had been programmed for a
liftoff from a different launch site and
speaking to russian state TV he blamed
human error he told the TV channel that
the rocket was programmed as if it were
taking off from a launch pad nearly
2,600 kilometers away from the actual
takeoff point the rocket contained 18
smaller satellites belonging to research
and commercial companies from Russia
Norway Sweden the US Canada Germany and
Japan Russia Space Agency
rosco most said last month that it had
lost contact with the weather satellite
which was worth 2.6 bill
in rubles the equivalents of about 58
million dollars or 43 million pounds
wowzers you know I shouldn't laugh at
something like this but I'm thinking if
you're in charge of a multi-million
dollar satellite like that's a big oops
you would think there'd be some
checklist that would go did you check
that we reap perfect I can't help but
think this was a programmer who made
this mistake well blame it on AI oh I
you know what I just feel a little bit
better when I make mistakes now like I
have calls that's a big mistake like
what is 2600 kilometers away from me
that's probably the next launch pad yeah
they just and they probably had a scroll
down list and they just click their own
one laughs turn right turn left go
straight for ten kilometers and but now
start that from 2,600 kilometers away
and see if you end up at Starbucks so
makes you wonder though like what was it
in the calculation that made it get like
because obviously it goes up into orbit
and then it's supposed to go around the
earth so but if it thinks it's here and
it's actually here right so what outside
of the gravitational pull is that would
happen and just aren't there like
windows that they can get through in the
atmosphere that well it all has to do
with like trajectory and rotation of the
earth and all that kind of stuff yeah
but I I'm thinking what if it happened
to go the other way and instead of going
too far out because of where it was it
goes oh we're here also boom crash back
to earth or something are we at risk or
parts of it going to come through back
through the atmosphere I don't think so
my understanding of this one is it's
gone okay so we don't have to worry
about clear I think it's like nothing
it's good it's just that's my
understanding on this one it's just it's
on its way somewhere else more space
debris - that's right I don't know take
care of Matt Damon it's becoming a
bigger issue I think that the the whole
kind of like that I don't know if you've
seen this but there's an orbital
that shows the earth and the orbit of
all the junk yes the satellites but the
junk and it looks like the rings of
Saturn we are just a kind of a
disgusting species yes we like that
oceans are bad the earth is bad the air
is bad and Berlin let's take it to space
it's bad but now shoot a rocket up into
space shoot a satellite up into space or
try to fly to Mars and get hit by
thousands of pieces of space debris
traveling at tens of thousands of
kilometers and that is a concern now I
mean the last 15 20 years they've been
talking about how do we clean that up
yeah yeah cleaning up space and they
they've said that over the past 50 years
one piece of space junk hits the
atmosphere per day and presumably either
burns up or makes its way down to earth
are we waiting for a Chinese brush or
something I've been watching this in the
news I think there's like a satellite
that's slowly getting close to Earth and
they're waiting for it to crash oh yeah
and they're concerned that it might land
hit land depending on when it falls but
it's really scary and by you don't think
about I mean I think the program before
the satellite did I think it's the early
90s where they saw a big portion of a
space shuttle or the ocean or so no it
came down in the desert right and then
we think you know what are the risks
involved right so yeah I start thinking
okay well you know a big piece of space
junk falling to earth and what's gonna
happen if it hits the city or something
and the reality of it is I found out
that it back in the 60s it actually
happened a woman got hit by space junk
really yes
so you've heard of people getting hit by
the blue poo water from planes Oh gross
but Oh gross Jeff I did not need to know
that but so she got hit by space junk oh
and turns out she was fine when it hit
her it was like a like take a piece of
paper and throw it at someone like yeah
that's that's the effect that she
because it was a piece of the fuselage
that was like a mesh
and it fell and it was like tensing 10
centimeters by 10 centimeters and just
kind of drifted down in the wind or
whatever and tapped her on the shoulder
but it actually happened but it could be
a giant piece of an engine or something
I feel like most of the time it would
incinerate like you have to do for
reentry don't you that's why people are
white scary when people come in don't
they have to be at the right angle or
else they burn apart yeah yeah they come
in too hot when you get something like
SpaceX sending up satellites and
shuttles that explode or rockets that
explode
that's an uncontrolled thing it's not
planned we didn't intend for it to
explode on its way up into the into the
atmosphere that's why they they ship
them up off of the water yeah because we
are present predominantly a water-based
planet so okay well we have to clean up
our space
criticism for admitting that it
deliberately slows down some of its
aging iPhone models the company now says
it will replace batteries for less and
will issue software in 2018 that will
enable customers to monitor their
phone's battery health some customers
had long suspected that the company slow
down older iPhones to encourage
customers to upgrade Apple admitted to
slowing down some phones with aging
batteries but said it was to prolong the
life of the devices in a statement
posted on its website the firm said it
would reduce the price of an out of
warranty battery replacement from $79 to
$29 in the US for anyone with an iPhone
6 or later and in the UK the price will
drop from 79 to 25 pounds it said it was
pushing ahead with measures to address
customers concerns to recognize their
loyalty and to regain the trust of
anyone who may have doubted Apple's
intentions the firm has had eight
separate lawsuits in the US filed
against it over the matter and had also
been facing additional legal action in
Israel and France Apple acknowledged
earlier this month that it does
deliberately slow down some models of
the iPhone as they age and said that
they made changes to the iOS operating
system in order to manage aging
lithium-ion battery
in some devices because the batteries
performance diminishes over time I feel
like this isn't uh really I didn't see
this story because how often you go oh
my phone's like a year and half well
it's pretty slow now like we had iPhones
that was our biggest complaint and
that's why we stopped using them yeah
because the users know yeah now they got
found out and they have this story
they're like we're not doing this
planned obsolescence thing we're doing a
battery protection thank sure if you
were doing a battery protection thing
you would have told us at the purchase
that you were going to protect our
batteries you did not do that so I'm
calling your bluff and really this is
not how reality works yeah if I sell you
something that is my product I don't
make that product worse and worse and
worse because it's getting older and I
want to extend its life for you see
where I'm interested to see though is
are these lawsuits going to allege that
this is a ruse by Apple's part to force
you to get a new phone because yours
can't handle it I'm sorry but that is
Apple's business model sureness that's
how ya make their own product obsolete
so you go with the next one absolutely
right I feel like maybe Apple should
just be really honest and be like of
course we made your old phone bad you
don't want your old phone you want your
new phone and it's at the store so go
get it I was interested to see now if
somebody gets a battery replacement puts
it in an older phone if suddenly the
life is restored and if they're gonna
turn around and say I bought a new phone
when I didn't need to mm-hmm
you owe me that the price was your phone
but hold on my camera the batteries just
don't last as well as they used to so
what do I do I take out the battery and
I replace it my camera works perfectly
right the iPhone janan did not make my
phone my camera not work anymore right
but see what the iPhones most people
don't know how to replace the better I
replace Jen's battery when it slowed
down ya brought new life to it did it
yeah it was a pain in the butt sure
because you have to completely dismantle
the phone you void your warranty and all
that but it I did it and it was great I
mean we got an extra year
of it okay so what are you thoughts
planned obsolescence or trying the
longer life undoubted kind of lessons in
my opinion in a major step towards it's
AI first dream Gogol has developed a
text-to-speech artificial intelligence
system that will confuse you with its
human-like articulation according to
reports the text Giants text-to-speech
system called taco Tron 2 delivers an AI
generated computer speech that almost
matches the voice of humans the internet
giant has announced it is shifting its
focus from mobile first to AI first and
we've seen them launch several products
and features in line with that goal
including google lens smart reply for
Gmail and Google Assistant for iPhone
the new text-to-speech system first
creates a spectrogram of the text a
visual representation of how the speech
should sound that image is put through
Google's existing wavenet algorithm
which uses the image and brings a AI
closer than ever to indiscernibly
mimicking human speech the algorithm can
easily learn different voices and even
generates artificial breaths wow that is
awesome on the basis of its audio
samples Google claimed that Taco Tron 2
can detect from context the difference
between the noun desert and the verb
desert that yes and the noun presence
and the verb present and alter its
pronunciation accordingly it can place
emphasis on capitalized words and apply
the proper inflection when asking a
question rather than making a statement
Google's engineers did not reveal much
information but left a big clue for
developers to figure out how far they've
come in this developed in developing the
system they did this by dropping a
handful of wav samples and leaving it up
to developers to guess which were their
real human speech and which were created
by the AI that's amazing now first of
all us humans have trouble
differentiating that's the thing I'm
like
now okay do your thing yeah if you want
to hear you want to hear so head over to
cap five dot TV slash taco and here she
is generative adversarial network or
variational auto encoder that is a
really difficult sentence to say
generative adversarial network of oh I
can't even do it they're operational
auto encoder Oh way to go he has read
the whole thing I think we'd be
hard-pressed to tell if that was a real
person like if you heard that on the
phone let's try another one this one the
buses aren't the problem they actually
provide the solution the buses aren't
the problem they actually provide a
solution okay what I find funny about
that one yeah is you actually read it
wrong sorry she's it so much better than
me in every way you said the buses
aren't the problem they actually provide
the solution and in this case it's
actually written a solution so your
brain automatically replaced a word
because you're used to the solution not
a salut yeah let's get the the grammar
right it's funny how the AI
how would she doesn't have that thought
process of assuming what the text would
be is she really good with UT city names
that's what I'm thinking as you're
reading this is what like okay can I do
accents how would she handle this though
so here's this is really Alice this is
really awesome okay now how about a
tongue twister okay Peter Piper picked a
peck of pickled peppers how many pickled
peppers did Peter Piper pick so natural
and so incredible it's it's just amazing
that's so okay but here is the thing
about it before you take the thing from
me I will take it so when you answer the
phone and you think you're talking to a
robot's hang up the phone
but really think you're talking to a
person you don't hang up so now we
implement the AI portion of the thought
processes and the machine learning and
can actually communicate yes
that was my thing Sachi used to I'll let
you have it this time but next week
don't steal it from me yes close to
Lieutenant Commander data yeah
yeah I feel like this probably is going
to be one of those situations where we
can see some good and some bad I still
want to go back to the accent piece like
I think okay when Siri first call it's
gonna happen absolutely that Siri
couldn't understand Irish right like
could you use this to create accents and
different maybe dialects I'm sure
machine learning would say let's learn
from ourselves it's like the machine
teaching the machine right so now I'm
gonna listen to this speech that I have
created for us maybe using this word the
way too often you don't need to so what
I'm wondering is how cool would it be to
use this to recreate lost vocabulary or
maybe a certain dialect and the way that
it was said the accents like been lost
because the civilization has disappeared
no my mind is blown on English fair
enough Klingon would be a nice addition
but let's take it one step further and
bring back lost languages back to you
an American fraudster has been caught in
relation to the Nigerian prince scam
that's right
according to police they've nabbed a 67
year old Louisiana man who swindled
people out of thousands of dollars as a
middleman in a Nigerian prince internet
scam Michael knew of Slidell Louisiana
about 30 miles north of New Orleans is
facing 269 counts of wire fraud and one
count of money laundering the scam
involves the victim receiving an email
from a Nigerian official who claims the
recipient has been named the beneficiary
in a will and will inherit at least 1
million dollars they're asked to sent
personal information which is then used
to con them out of their money
new is allegedly participated in
hundreds of scams and has wired money to
co-conspirators who do in fact live in
Nigeria the 18-month investigation
remains ongoing Slidell Police Chief
Randy FanDuel warned police people never
to give out personal information over
the phone or via email or to wire money
to anyone they don't know the chief
warned if it sounds
good to be true it probably is okay hold
on is this real life this is real life
but the guy's name I know I digress
Randy FanDuel yeah Randall FanDuel from
sit down that's true see I just when I
saw this I just kind of chuckle for
myself because I'm going when I first
created an email address back and I
think it was 1994 forget this one I got
the Nigerian prince that and he's still
going around you would think over 20
years later people are aware the
Nigerian prince is not actually going to
give you money but somehow it happened
Gates is giving out money and stuff too
yeah you get yeah share this and we'll
give a penny to every share the Nigerian
prince one is hilarious but it's sad to
me very sad to me that it actually still
works and when people fall for it people
were traveling to Nigeria to meet with
the Prince I feel like you should only
fall for this if you maybe lived in
Nigeria and think oh yeah the Nigerian
prince we go way back wonder if this is
mainly the agit who fell for it maybe
they're not as fans like there are 30
year olds that are traveling overseas
too and then getting captured and yeah
it's very weird if it seems too good to
be true
it is nobody in a country you have never
been to that you are probably not there
err yeah no sorry other people have
right to there in imaginary money just
be wise people like yeah like you got a
question this stuff you have to the I
mean not to deviate from what what I'm
seeing right now going on Facebook is oh
you get a Tim's card share this you get
no sorry that's just mining all your
data yeah yeah don't do it it's a scam
yeah uh be aware people now that said if
you are a Nigerian prince my address is
on the bottom the web
I'm fine with you sending a boatload of
cash
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom i'm sasha
richmond
[Music]
