welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 434 Tuesday the fifteenth
of December 2015 say hi to Shelley de
Silva Oh Jeff Weston over there in a bow
is he looking newsroom and Adam is on
camera hey Adam he nodded I can assure
you he nodded yep tonight we celebrate
20 years of the G and you image
manipulation program by continuing our
20 weeks of GIMP tip series we're going
to travel back in time or at least it
seems we're going to take a digital
photo and make it look 100 years old
whoo also we're going to learn how to
use free tools on Linux to download
videos from youtube we're also going to
learn how to download directly to mp3
jumping over to the newsroom hey Jeff
what's coming up here's what's coming up
in the category 5 TV news room amazon
has pulled hoverboards from their sites
amid safety concerns cybersecurity
experts are warning that ransomware is
the fastest growing form of computer
malware YouTube gaming for Android gets
a cardboard mode for more immersive
viewing the joomla security team has
just released a new version of the
joomla patch for a critical remote
command execution vulnerability try say
that five times real fast that affects
all versions as far back as 1.5 and are
you under 16 well a possible revision to
the digital age of consent may mean you
can no longer use Facebook or other
social media sites stick around the full
details are coming up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV
starring Sasha dramatis
Hillary rumble
and your host Ravi Ferguson
this is category 5 technology TV i'm
your host Ravi Ferguson I'm Kelly distal
box nice to see you shell how you been
lucky bad yeah keep busy you are keeping
busy I got a call from you this week
because WordPress 4.4 came out how is
that working out I haven't tried yet
nice to be an early adopter sometimes
not so much we have seen some problems a
here and there we have WordPress
upgrades going from 4.3 point whatever
to 4.4 and having the whole system crash
oh yeah yeah we had a couple of those
today at work so yeah the problem is is
with this particular bug which is known
and is there is a patch and they are
patching it on four point four point one
we're waiting to find out when it's
coming out but you you go in and it says
you've got to upgrade to the latest and
greatest WordPress and it sounds great
and there's really not a lot of mention
about this bug online unless you know
specifically what to look for okay you
hit that upgrade button and well your
salvage that so yeah yeah but you you at
that point you're like locked out you
can't get onto the main website you
can't get into the administrative panel
it won't let you sign in to fix or undo
them so you've got to actually go in and
patch it manually which is a bit of a
pain for most users if you even have ftp
access anymore the whole thing with
using wordpress is you don't need it
right you're supposed to be able to just
use their interface so they're working
on a fix so watch for four point four
point one so if you see that your
wordpress is ready to be up to upgraded
you might want to make sure you have ftp
access first so that you can patch it if
you need to but also you could wait
until four point four point one when
they implement the patch so that they
will not lock you out of your system and
break it i speaking of little little
scares i came into the studio tonight
and fired up the old systems and we've
got the demo machine that i use for all
of the on lot on air demonstrations and
everything and i'm working away working
away getting our shots set up getting
Jeff's Christmas tree setup and system
completely turned off
and I was like a little moment of panic
oh yeah did the power supply just bake
it sell for that would be really
miserable before a show and I opened it
up and turns out the liquid cooling
system had evaporated over time and I
guess I haven't been watching it close
and I know you gotta keep up with this
stuff so I called around Barry and I've
yep of shocked to find that in Barry
here in Ontario Canada the stores will
sell you a liquid cooling system but
they don't carry the coolant hello joy
I'm using the touch screen to type it's
like a 27 inch touch screen here using
that with an on-screen keyboard type
bowing to Jeff and saying hey man can
you stop and find me some liquid coolant
and then I found some that I just had
kicking around some and so I there was
just enough to so that's the liquid
coolant that cools our servers so if you
use a liquid cooling system this is like
checking your fire alarms every time
yeah I'm changes and at daylight savings
time check your your liquid coolant as
well take for granted that you know the
computers just running and i turn it off
after a Tuesday show and turn it back on
yeah but that's as simple as it was so
thankfully I still have a little bit in
stock and after up yeah I'm gonna have
to order some online though because you
can't why didn't you know that so that's
nuts is that need to know so and now you
get online and there's like three
billion different types of cooling that
you can buy yep it picked the right one
you got to pick the right one what do
you think this show you're looking at
this before the show ya see one of these
fly no really I it was supposed to be
charged last time but i think it's it oh
well there you go see if i should do
like can it fetch things yeah i don't
know what kind of pale OU t need your
own could could handle i should like zip
around and see how quick adam is come on
camera guy come on guy can he keep up
yeah you keep it up good uh i would love
to give a couple of these away to you
all you have to do is get over to
patreon calm category five and these are
teeny drones and we've got these in our
shop you can go to cap five TV /
he need roans to find out more about
them but we've got a race pack so that
means you and I could actually race one
another yeah the the controllers don't
interfere with one another so we can
raise or you can charge one while the
other one is flying and then switch back
and forth whatever you want to do all
you have to do is pledged to support us
for just 25 cents or more per episode at
patreon.com / category 5 and the first
100 participants in that are going to be
a part of the draw and we're going to be
drawing for those two and degrading
women both of those if you are the
winner do they come in different colors
they do there's the blue there's like a
red orange mmm color and then there is
black Oh meat and my son and I actually
you can you can just assemble it if you
want just for fun we bought the spray
paint we took we took his apart and
spray painted it silver and it's yeah
you could do all that kind of stuff and
have fun with it and it's able to handle
the little bit of added weight of the of
the paint but there's so much fun and
I'd love to send those to you so
patreon.com / category 5 to participate
in that draw and by doing that you're
actually supporting category 5
technology TV our network of shows you
can find out more about us there but we
you know we got to pay the rent here at
the studio we gotta i just paid the
internet bill today yesterday and our
internet this month was about 300 it was
367 dollars ye yeah so it's it's like
from month to month it kind of
fluctuates depending on how much
broadcasting we do and you know how I
guess there are certain variables
because it's all bandwidth faced yes but
we send our signal across the way
there's a tower an LTE tower about a
kilometer that way don't it and you can
see it from our front door so we have an
antenna a yagi antenna pointed directly
at that power and that's how we are able
to broadcast to you live tonight so all
the different bills yeah and we're in
the chat room we're able to do
demonstrations and everything through
that internet connection they're just or
not we can't get anything out here in
the industrial area of Barry there's dsl
and that's it you can broadcast through
these
so all that said we've got the month to
month bills and your contributions your
support supporting us through our
partners by shopping there on Amazon
through our links and newegg various
different sites that really helps us out
and we appreciate that got our first
check from amazon europe oh this week
which was really cool is there people
purchase stuff from any yeah right so
you go yeah you go through our partner
links on our website and so we got our
first check in pounds and it was like
two and a half times the face value of
it here in Canada so so that was kind of
a bonus when they when they deposited
that and it was two and a half times
what what it says on the check so buy
everything in pounds yeah very well US
dollars it does not work in our favor
though well if you're buying in u.s.
dollars it does does it it like if
someone is shopping on amazon com it
comes to us we deposit it into our
Canadian account but it's US dollar so
it's actually worth more than what it
says on the check its if we were buying
alien us then that's when it not work in
our favor anyways thank you for your
support it is making a world of
difference and and we appreciate you
being a part of it go to
patreon.com/scishow time yeah so what
we're aparta we are a member of the tech
broadcast network if it's deck is here
kind of cat5 TV / tpn and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat5 TV / IA ib actually I
kind of just acronyms like that it just
makes it simple yeah at least that was
the plan so did better than I thought to
going to like internet International
Association of internet broadcaster calm
/ yeah I didn't even know you can create
things like that like short snippet we
have a URL shortener yeah five dot TV
sometimes can cause confusion category 5
TV is our website cat5 TV is our URL
short
so that's okay cool but people use like
bit ly and things like that to shorten
urls mm-hmm make something about similar
helps us also to be able to keep track
of you know if somebody clicks on a link
yeah that's you can see the the
click-through mm-hmm so it just helps us
to know hey that thing that we talked
about people are actually clicking on it
works yeah it works it would you like to
check out how to make an age old photo
yep oh yeah what do you use your graphic
designer yeah my great i would use
photoshop why we've got lots of money to
just throw around a yeah I do no I don't
I'd really don't for those of us who did
use GIMP I've been using good tell me
they were recommending games yeah some
room yeah that's cool what okay so we've
never talked about this so this is a
good opportunity for you and I to
discuss what is your impression from a
graphic designer Shelley being a
professional graphic designer who uses
photoshop well you get paid right yeah
so that's like it just sounds funny yeah
all right yeah amateur no there's no you
get paid so you're not a I don't know
what to call my cell I just do what I do
all right title so what's your
impression of the GNU image manipulation
program the GIMP yeah hmm haven't use it
in a while to be honest but it's evolved
a lot it's open source so PA feeding it
with its great features you know what I
got try it again there we go it's open
source it's free you can download it at
gimp.org and it's a photo editor an
image manipulation tool or suite of
software that just gives you all the
tools at your fingertips to do some
really cool stuff and through the course
of our 20 weeks of GIMP tech tips we are
going to be showing you how to use that
software perfect so tonight we are going
to take this photo that we took a view
just before the show there's a you and
Jeff let's see if I can find you here on
my screen there we go there they are
folks so I'm going to open that with the
GNU image manipulation programs that
look like good shot we've also got this
one where Jeff was last chapter
yeah I know yeah I tried to get a stool
it's all skewed look at it okay so let's
first of all that a good good photo you
happy with that yeah okay what we're
doing tonight this is the fourth part of
the GIMP tips series we're doing 20
weeks of this so with each in iteration
we are adding a new feature giving you
something else to learn how to do some
tricks with the GIMP so tonight we're
gonna make this photo which we took just
before the show here in 2015 and we're
going to turn it into a 100 year old
professional at this I guess technically
I'm a web developer so I use GIMP to do
all the web stuff that I do hmm so eat I
get paid to do web design and that needs
graphics so I guess I am a professional
folks area or areas let's let's get out
all right first of all I want to use the
the rectangular select tool up here at
the top right because I want to crop out
things like the coffee maker and stuff
like that and just grab this nice photo
of jeff and Shelly so I've selected it
and notice how i was able to move that
Marky a little bit different than
photoshop in that regarding and I can
not only move it but I can we learn this
before you can actually change the size
and proportions the shape of that Marky
as well so I want to Center those two in
the in the marquee so that when i right
click image crop do use pork at all no i
don't use quark just asking unless
you're asking about a character from
deep space 9 alright so there we go
we've cropped it right nice and simple
simple stuff right so to make this look
old you know a couple of different
things that we want to do first of all
i'm going to right click on the image
and go script foo color and split tone
with Ed and Ed as edge detection I guess
they ran out of space but i'm not going
to actually use edge detection what i
want to do is I like using the default
colors here to get started and what this
is this is the highlights are going to
be orange and the
shadows are going to be blue kind of an
aqua color and I just simply hit okay
and what it does is it kind of changes
the hue of that photo so that's one way
that we can really really quickly change
the colorization without making it black
and white real quick little tip for you
from the GNU image manipulation program
do a tone yeah so I can turn off that
blue layer to make it it so you can see
what the just the orange by itself does
yeah and I can in fact turn I can select
the blue layer and change the opacity to
kind of bring down the blue a little bit
any I like that it's it it's not quite
black and white it's a it's completely d
saturated but we're not looking at a
black and white image there is some
color in that so maybe not a hundred
years old when did they bring out color
film when did Kodak work their magic you
google it soleta side 1965 I'm guessing
no let's just your gas no Lou I think I
I want to say that I saw a news article
just the other day something like 1895
was a wait time if I don't think
something like that there it was an
initial um I forget the guys name I want
to say he was really grants or something
yeah but he had the first color photos
and it was like easily a hundred years
ago have you guys seen dumb the croods
know where they used to take photos with
a rock and they would just like smack it
on your face and whatever impression you
got is alright the cart the 3d cartoon i
think i saw the yes watching that's it
okay it's actually I didn't I didn't sit
down and watch it but yeah that looked
cute I look rookie she's actually
googling this folks so and that is a
verb if anyone gives me a hard time over
it so that's one thing that I can do
there and I can also use tools like
desaturation so if I right click and go
colors and then hue/saturation I can be
right what 1861 I think it according to
wikipedia 1861 so you were close you're
only off by four years if you were a
hundred years did I say did I say 65 or
9560 Shelly said 65 decision I'm trying
to google it too are we doing the same
thing yeah I'm seeing the first color
photo was made by three color method
suggested by james clerk maxwell an
18-55
taken in 1861 by Thomas Sutton yeah Wow
see it would have been a most likely RGB
yeah so it did someone actually figure
that out it's amazing and the process
would have been completely different
from how is yeah they're really good
photos to like there's one here from
1903 yeah that's incredible does it look
better than today's well I mean for 18
yeah for 1903 yeah for 1903 it's
incredibly because we're trying to fudge
it at this point right no that they had
color we have to completely change our
tutorial thanks Jeff if you want to see
those samples from 1861 make sure you
visit wikipedia and what was the search
it is for color photography alright so
let's get a look at desaturation this is
where let's undo everything that I've
done so far just I and one of the nice
things about GIMP too is I can just hit
ctrl Z control Z control Z and go back
in time and it's gonna let me step back
oh maybe not in this case I think I must
have saved at some point let's check
this out okay desaturation I just want
to show you the difference if I right
click and go colors hue/saturation I can
grab that saturation and right now i'm
on the master channel so as I desaturate
which is to turn down the saturation
watch what happens to the photograph
it's in preview mode so it doesn't go
black and white it just kind of lose it
gets a softness to it and it loses some
of that color so it's not black and
white let's okay that so you can
actually see you can still see there's a
little bit of yellow on there I really d
saturated it but you get the idea Saudi
saturation is a completely different
thing versus what we're doing which is
okay we're using a tool but that gives
you like to yeah yeah a filter from
script foo but that gives you to kind of
ways that you can you can sort of make
that alchy effect desaturation is a
great way to make your photo look a
little soft or two if you're taking some
wedding
nature's or something like that next
step is we want to add some kind of a
kind of a crackle to the photo this this
thing has been sitting in the bottom
drawer of someone's dresser for the last
hundred years it's gonna it's not going
to be perfect it's going to have some
crunched it's gonna have some grunge on
it and grunge is a great word to use as
you're doing your search but you could
even do something as simple as let's say
cracked wall and do an image search and
all these images that you're going to
see like a cracked wall like that so
first thing I want to do because we're
doing this on a TV show as I want to
change my usage rights to labeled for
reuse with modification so that any of
the images that I see here are going to
be legally licensed for me to use okay
you want to do that if you're using
these on your website or anything at all
so we find one that is going to work for
us as far as you know there's that's
kind of cool it's got a bit of a brown
to it there's some that are really all
racked we'd look like we would send at
the bottom of that drawer for yeah do
you want able to go let's so I've
downloaded that image but let's just
check out the attribution on that this
photo is licensed Creative Commons and
where's the license here some rights
reserved I'll click on it it's creative
commons attribution 2.0 generic
attributed to Liz West thanks Liz West
for letting us use this photo we can't
she ate that so let's grab that photo
and open with GNU image manipulation
program convert the colors that's fine
and then let's grab that I'm going to
highlight with control a you can see
that the Marquis is now dancing around
there like a bunch of ants and then i
can hit ctrl-c to copy it to my
clipboard and then ctrl-v to paste it in
now I can't I don't want to work with
anything I don't want to do anything
with that layer just yet because you'll
see what it actually is is a floating
selection so I want to right click and
go layer to new layer and what that does
is it creates a new layer with that
image holy flattened today yeah so now
I'm going to go and change the mode of
that layer so by default we're set to
normal
that means it's you know fully open it
has a full opacity you can't see through
it so we want to change that to say
something like and you can try all
different things let's try grain extract
that's going to give us a real blackness
I can try things like colours invert on
that layer and that gives us a kind of a
so now it's actually see what I've done
is I've changed the I've made it a black
image so I've changed the white to black
and vice versa so that gives me a little
bit of a different effect and I can
change the opacity of that or scroll
through and find one that I really like
as far as the crackle effect whoa we
look like avatar cool so that's a bit I
would say that's a bit severe let's see
what I'm going to invert it back you may
find that some images won't work quite
as well as some others that because it
doesn't have a real feel of real realism
to it maybe it's just the way that the
wall has kind of peeled a little bit so
it should have a little bit it almost
has a bit of a depth to the the crackle
let's use your world weird grunge
texture and we get all these kinds of
things so you can see hey there's a
pretty neat one there and let's grab
that multiply would be a good one for
this yeah let's give that a go so I'm
going to grab this image and again let's
look at the attribution for this image
we're searching for images that we have
the right to use this is attribution to
Brent you won't give it a go leme
install Thank You Brent for making this
available to us for use on category 5 TV
great guy yeah alright so I'm going to
open that with GIMP and let's grab that
same way ctrl a ctrl C and then click on
here and go control V and then layer 2
new layer and turn off the original one
that we had
in there you'll see that this goes
outside of the box there so I can move
it around if I want to goes outside of
the canvas so I can change that you want
me to try multiply well I've got the
wrong layer here we go multiply those
are two a little bit dark yeah so you
can scroll through with your you're neat
person yeah it gives a cool effect thing
and you can find the one that is going
to work for you you'll see some do not
work and some will invert the photo
completely but you will you'll find one
that is going to work for you sparkly
was just saying in the chat room that
you could use the marble as well
sometimes that works Oh doesn't like a
marble floor or something like that yeah
this has given us a pretty cool effect
that's burn and what I noticed their
shell is that it has a it's very dark so
we learned last week if we hit ctrl alt
l now that we've set up that hotkey we
can bring up our levels just like
Photoshop and I can increase the bright
the kind of the lightness of that
texture so that it's not quite so you
know shadow oriented so I can kind of
bring that up a little bit so it looks
set it looks pretty rough as far as kind
of crackly it looks like someone ate it
oh I can do some I can do some racial
loading look here is it Resident Evil we
can be nice whatever works so we're
looking you know kind of it looks pretty
cool yeah but the next thing that an old
camera had was a vignette these days we
don't have been getting on our images
because the lenses are so flawless and
if you've got a good lens you're not
going to see any kind of aberrations
around the edge of the lens but the old
days we did have that so a couple of
things that we'd want to do first of all
your lenses round so we're going to use
a round ellipse marquee and we're going
to hold in the left shift key as we
click so that it's a perfectly round
circle because we don't want it victa
you don't want it to be an oval
because who has an oval lens it's got to
be round I'm going to bring it just
outside of the edge and put you to as
the subjects of that image then I'm
going to feather that so we're going to
right click and go select feather and we
want it to be fairly proportional to the
size of our image it's 2,700 by 2000 so
we can make our feather about I'd say
about 400 pixels and you can experiment
with that so that's going to give us a
bit of a feathering on the edge and then
select invert so now we're we've got a
selection on the outside of that circle
and it has a feather so now if I right
click and go edit copy visible just to
show you i'm going to paste that and
then create a new layer because we
learned about that and if I turn off the
other layers this is going to show you
what I just copied to the clipboard so
that's kind of the outside and it has a
nice feathered edge so that it's nice
and soft so first thing we want to do is
with that feathered edge let's give that
a little bit of a blur so we're going to
go filters Gaussian blur and let's make
that about 15 pixels really blew out the
edges of the photo which is going to be
something that's going to happen on
those old images and then same thing a
circle for our subjects right in the
middle select feather
you can play with the numbers right
click select invert now let's create a
new layer this time we're not going to
copy anything to our clipboard and we're
going to fill that with black and you
can see that that gives a full than I
adding on the edge now we turn down the
opacity of that so that it places the
focus in the center of the image gives
us a nice vignette on the on the outside
of the image so that's a really really
quick demonstration of how to create the
effect you can play with all these
different methods experiment yeah I
think what we're doing is we're teaching
the methods behind how to use the layers
how to create vignettes and how to do
these different things and then you play
around with them change the numbers your
feathering for example isn't necessarily
going to be 400 pixels it might be 25
pixels it might be 700 it depends on the
size of your image and what effect
you're going for but that will that will
give you some some starter points so
that is part four of our GIMP tips 20
weeks of GIMP tips and next week we're
going to have another one for you so
make sure you check out category 5
technology TV next Tuesday night this is
category 5 technology TV i'm your host
ravi ferguson and i'm shelly we're gonna
head on over to the newsroom and right
after the news we're gonna be showing
you how to download video from youtube
hmm so stick around off to the newsroom
hey Jeff LOL oh it's Tuesday December 15
2015 and hear the stories were covering
this week amazon has pulled hoverboards
from their sites amidst the safety
concerns we reported last week
cybersecurity experts are warning that
ransomware is the fastest growing form
of computer malware and the numbers
continue to rise at a frightening level
youtube gaming for Android gets a
cardboard mode for more immersive
viewing and are you running joomla you
need to upgrade immediately the joomla
security team has patched a critical
vulnerability that lets a remote user
take full control of their site and are
the digital age of consent may
mean you can no longer use Facebook or
other social media sites these stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
operation christmas child is one of the
great stories it's unfolding in our
lifetime we are only seeing just the
beginning of this project and these
children will change the world
I'm Jeff lesson filling in for Sasha
Germain us and here are the top stories
from the category 5 TV news room amazon
appears to have stopped selling
hoverboards on its UK and US sites the
London Fire Brigade issued a warning in
October after a rideable board on charge
in a bedroom in South work caught fire
Newsbeat has searched Amazon and can
only find accessories for the devices
still for sale Trading Standards
recently warned that the that the demand
for them had led to a big increase in
cheap and dangerous imitations which can
be flammable one of the companies which
had its product pulled swagway gave a
statement to the technology site the
verge saying amazon just sent out a
notice to all hoverboard sellers to
provide documentation demonstrating that
all hoverboards you list are compliant
with applicable safety standards the
sales of the devices in the UK have
taken off in the past year but there
have been worries about safety connected
to them recently three leading american
airline groups banned them saying their
batteries present an unacceptable fire
hazard authorities in the UK have seized
more than 15,000 of them at ports and
airports in recent weeks and it is
illegal to ride them on public roads and
pavements but there have been accidents
on streets involving them that's
interesting because down in Toronto when
I'm working I've seen several people
using them and I gotta say it seems kind
of dangerous on the sidewalks especially
around you know starting time and quit
in time people part ways for the
hoverboard users dangerous stuff cyber
security experts are warning that
of computer malware it's a malicious
virus that locks the user out of their
computer and demands a fee to return
their files a report published by the
Australian Government says seventy two
percent of businesses surveyed
experienced ransomware incidents in 2015
the figure was just seventeen percent in
2013 it's also a growing threat for
mobile devices as it can be hidden in a
nap dirt Vaughn shank president of
internet security company lookout says
for the most part we've seen ransomware
delivered through drive-by downloads it
pretends to be a popular app increasing
the chances that you'll click on it to
avoid these threats users should be very
care
full about the apps they install and
where they come from read the reviews on
Google Play and avoid side loading from
untrusted sources YouTube gaming
Google's answer to twitch is trying to
stay ahead of the curve by adding new
functionality quickly one such feature
is only available for Android right now
and it's a cardboard mode that allows
you to watch any video with a theater
type big screen setting feel it'll feel
like you're sitting and watching a big
screen while the gameplay recording
feature only supports 2d recording right
now one could expect that VR with full
360 degrees stereoscopic 3d video will
be coming sometime in the future put
simply YouTube and Google aren't waiting
around to see what happens with virtual
reality they're gonna swing for the
fences the Joomla security team has just
released a new version of joomla to
patch a critical remote command
execution vulnerability that affects all
versions from 1.5 to 3.4 this is a
serious vulnerability that can be easily
exploited and is already in the wild if
you're using joomla you have to update
it right now if you're using an old
unsupported version of joomla such as
1.5 or 2.5 you have to apply the hot
fixes which you can find by going to
docs joomla org and entering hotfix eol
into the search by the end of this week
it could be illegal for any European
child under 16 to use Facebook or
snapchat or any messaging service
without the express consent of their
parents that according to some
interpretations would be the result of
the vote by an obscure committee to
raise the digital age of consent from 13
to 16 in the United States a law called
the Children's Online Privacy Protection
Act gives extra online protection to
children under 13 and Europe has had a
similar policy which is why the likes of
Facebook have not allowed children in
until they become teenagers now though
the European Parliament civil liberties
and home affairs committee is
considering a change which is opposed
both by social media firms and many
child protection experts a last-minute
amendment to Europe's data protection
regulation says this the processing of
personal data of a child below the age
of 16 years should only be lawful if and
to the extent that such consent is given
or authorized by the holder of parental
responsibility or over the child in
other words
firms that want to deal with anyone
under 16 we'll have to make sure they
get mom and dad's permission first that
according to several online safety
experts will make children more
vulnerable not less in an open letter to
the committee they write that changing
the age limit would deprive young people
of educational and social opportunities
in a number of ways yet would provide no
more and likely even less protection
others argue that social media has
provided a vital lifeline for troubled
teenagers and the risk is that they
would not feel be able to go online and
search for help dr. Rachel Rachel
o'connell from the consultancy trust
evaluates suggest that rather than
blocking under-16 access outright social
media companies may simply have to
devise ways to detect them and stop
tracking them she says social media
firms could continue to offer access
without processing under-16s personal
data ie gathering data creating
psychographic profiles of a young person
and selling it to third parties until
they get permission from the parent and
young person even still a number of big
US tech companies have launched a
frantic lobbying effort to stop the
amendment being passed big thanks this
week to garbey and roy w nash for our
and our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us if you found a
new story you'd like to see it at like
us to cover send it to newsroom at
category 5 TV for all your tech news
with a slight linux bias visit the
category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room i'm jeff west and filling in for
sasha tomatoes thanks Jeff this is
Ravi Ferguson hi I'm Shelly hey Shelly
mellow hey Jeff atau hey hey Adam and
hey to you at home thanks for tuning in
tonight we are going to touch on a topic
that is what some would say is a gray
area it is we're gonna try to explain it
hmm or you you're a professional when it
comes to illegal downloading we first of
all our stance is we do not support
piracy or illegal downloading of any
kind of content
whatsoever here at category 5 TV there
are sometimes instances though we're
through fair use or through just the
need to for example alleviate the fact
that you are approaching a data plan
limitation or maybe you need to be able
to watch something on your phone but
you're going to the cottage and it's
going to cost you a fortune just in
bandwidth if you happen to be using the
internet in that way okay yeah so
sometimes there's there's reason to to
download something from you too so let's
look at the legalities of it is it legal
is it illegal hmm maybe we can work
through a couple of the points I think
really what it boils down to Google owns
YouTube and they make money by the
advertising that's displayed on the
YouTube website it's free for you to
watch content on YouTube so should it be
free you know do those didn't what do
those ads do they pay for you to be able
to watch it for free let's work through
I've kind of summarized a few points
here and let's just kind of go through
just for your record and and again I
want to state that we are not in true
we're not promoting any kind of piracy
here but we are going to show you how to
download video mp3 content on YouTube
with the intention of demonstrating that
is possible through free Linux tools but
also that there are cases where you are
legitimately legally licensed to own
copies or to download copies of video
and sometimes that's the only way to
find it so downloading the video to
watch it offline the problem with that
is then Google and the people that are
distributing that video cannot make
money when you watch it mm-hmm if you
download it in such a way that you know
you've brought it up on your screen the
near click has brought up the
advertisement and so that the ad has
been served by then if you watch it 10
times yeah 30 times you know then then
it starts to become okay that's probably
not okay
of course Google doesn't want you to
sidestep their advertising people like
us for example who create content we
don't want you to sidestep the
advertising because that's how we make
the money that we need in order to
provide video on YouTube and it's an
important part of of our month to month
as well as those yep google ads so if
you if you are using this methodology to
get around advertising then that's
probably you know not okay not illegal
because it's not illegal to the side
step advertising it's more of just a
kind of hurt yeah it kind of hurts those
who are providing the content for free
and I understand now that you can
actually have a job at YouTube like sure
if you're a broadcaster and you and
you're doing well and you get a lot of
views then yeah you you can do that full
time it's as simple as that but if
everybody were to side step dads then
where's the Rev God yeah you wouldn't be
able to keep providing that content so
there there's a few things to consider
there if i'm watching cable TV for
example and a commercial comes on
there's nothing holding me to my seat i
can walk away and go get a tea and then
come back and sit down when the ads are
over yep there's nothing illegal about
that and similarly there's nothing
really pushing you to have to watch ads
but it hurts the content providers if
you don't support them in that way and I
think they try their best to to have ads
that kind of relate to the topic of what
they're discussing anyhow yeah
absolutely and that's part of the whole
system as it keeps track of kind of
where what you're searching for what you
like what you dislike and then it tries
to serve ads that are relevant to you
that's that works in you know in favor
of the advertiser it works for the
content providers because they're
serving up ads that are relevant to to
their viewers and it works for you
because you just very well may find that
hey I was looking for a new web host and
suddenly I got an ad for this great web
host and I clicked on and I got and it's
a great deal or something on you've got
a discount because the
there was a relevant targeted ad so
that's a kind of a cool thing is it
illegal what what is your opinion we're
not lawyers by any stretch no we're not
legal consultants I was reading up on it
and it says it's not illegal for your
personal use but what does that mean
like just drive to the cottage or
there's no reproducing a crow flies
really area yeah you can't resell it you
can't can't profit off of anything that
that you have obtained and I think what
it really boils down to okay downloading
off of youtube does violate the terms of
use okay and we'll look a little bit at
their terms of use but it doesn't
necessarily fall into illegal okay
however if what you're downloading is
copy written material so a movie that
has been posted on YouTube and then you
go and download it is that two illegal
things that now a whole bunch of illegal
action is happening here right or music
is a good example you download the
latest VEVO video yeah well that's quite
probably illegal not because youtube
says it's illegal but because copyright
law says no that's copy written material
they've put it up so that you can view
it for free but it is supported by ads
if you download it then it's illegal
okay got it where it's different is
where the content provider specifically
says mm-hmm you can get this for free
you can take this okay category 5
technology TV we're licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
you are free to download our shows okay
you can do that through our RSS feeds
and go to our website and i guess
technically you could go through youtube
if that was your means because legally
we have waived that copyright and said
okay yeah it's still copy written it's
still owned owned by us but we'll give
it to you for free you can download it
you can share it yeah but don't sell it
because then you're getting into
commercial use and if you sell it then
we should be getting a commission on
there that's as simple as it is so if
the copyright holder says yeah you can
do this for free and it's in written
it's it's me out trying to think what's
a free video out there by a big
celebrity oh I think um for example
Taylor Swift she let out a video and
other prophets for that she's getting
from that videos going towards something
else so then you're stealing from a
charity I don't know that's the thing
well I think of any music video I would
think is copy written but then there are
indie bands okay it would be an example
oh yeah I just want to get my music out
there i don't care if someone's like
downloads it yeah i want them to be
listening to it because I want them to
maybe go and buy my CD okay not gonna
get a whole lot of advertising revenue
but that's that's a different case
welcome big names taylor swift i can't
see her saying yeah go ahead and
download my songs not fair free i was
just wondering it's of use or kind of
worked so i think you'll you'll know if
it's the case i think a good example of
where it is waived where it's allowed is
when it's Creative Commons license okay
when it's a video of a seminar that has
been licensed under a creative commons
license or that style of a license or
maybe there are you know other video
podcasts that you enjoy that maybe they
are distributed in that way so you've
got a look at the licensing behind it to
know whether or not it's illegal because
it's not really illegal to download its
what are you downloading if that makes
sense so looking at the terms of use
YouTube here by this is five point one
section of the terms of use for good for
google youtube youtube hereby grants
that you permission to access and use
the service subject to the following
expressed conditions and that you agree
that your failure to adhere to any of
these conditions shall constitute a
breach of these terms on your part you
agree not to access content through any
technology or means other than the video
playback pages of the website itself the
YouTube player or other means as YouTube
may explicitly designate by the for this
purpose so they are clearly saying
you're supposed to be using our website
our tools you're not allowed to use
third-party tools in order to watch this
in the terms of use it's not illegal but
you are saying okay I'm using YouTube
and
and if I do anything differently than
that then I'm breaching the terms of use
plain and simple it's pretty black and
white however as far as the legality
goes the term state you shall not copy
reproduce distribute transmit broadcast
display sell license or otherwise
exploit any content for any other
purpose without the prior written
consent of YouTube or the respective
licensors of the content so now we're
getting into that copyright issue it's a
whole different issue and if you have
the rights to down then that's where it
gets confusing it gets to be a gray area
so is it possible so what we're looking
at tonight we're going to show you how
to use Linux to download youtube videos
and that is again from the perspective
of yeah we want to show you that it's
possible we don't endorse piracy don't
don't use this for any to you know if
you have the right to the video than
fine if not then I would ask that you
refrain from using the techniques that
we're going to show you here so i've
installed debian it's a form of linux
it's available absolutely free for you
debian dot-com I believe they have let's
make sure debian dawn at reroutes torg
so debian depi a and door gets a free
linux distribution and you can install
it just as a bare-bones kind of server
OS and we kind of have covered that in
the past as well so I've installed that
on my computer so that I have a nice
bare-bones linux system here and what
I'm going to do i actually have a
network share to my other computer here
so that lets change into super user so
su and then i can access that share ok
so my share is there that just allows me
to share files between my virtual
machine the debian machine and my actual
computer so the tool that we want to
install not sure if i already have it
here I'm route so you see that I am
currently logged in as root using su so
i can go app
that update and that's going to grab me
the new list of repository information
all the different programs that you can
install in debian and then we simply
need to install a free program that's
going to let us do this reason i want to
show you how to do this is because there
are a lot of browser plug-ins there are
a lot of programs out there that will
allow you to do this however they are
laced with malware adware okay good
sometimes viruses because they're
playing on the fact that hey you want
something for free so let's make it
unsafe what we're going to do instead is
go apt-get install YouTube dash dl and
it tells me that i've already installed
it on my system so that's fine if you
haven't already installed it it'll grab
all the packages and you just say yes
and it will install that on your
computer so as superuser so i've already
i'm already su then that's all i type
apt-get install youtube d dash dl
alright are you ready for it this is
kind of cool i've got a video on youtube
that i placed up there which we
obviously we have the rights to but also
we're waiving all you know saying that
anyone who wants it can ok can also do
you make it I did yeah and it's pretty
obvious that I made it you're not a
professional videographer there it can't
be much clearer than that all right to
download this video ok so with with that
particular video it's got our theme
music and so on and so forth let's jump
jump back to debian and what we want to
do is YouTube dash DL because we've
already installed that and we're going
to go https colon slash slash www
youtube is where it helps to be able to
type quite fast or you can paste if you
have it in your clipboard /watch notice
that it is just the URL of that video
seven WS ok so that is the the same URL
that is in my browser right now and as
soon as i hit enter
youtube-dl is going to grab that video
download it to my computer whichever the
current whatever the current folder is
so now if I go back to that folder that
I had open you see that that video is
now playing in VLC yeah so it's got the
what it considers to be the best quality
if I right click on that and go
information we see the codec is 1280 by
720 however if i go back to youtube i
see that the video is in fact available
in 1080p so why is it only given me the
720p file so that's where we get into
something a little more sophisticated we
can go back to our command here we can
type dash f and that's a capital F and
hit enter and what that's going to do is
it's going to connect to that file and
is going to show us all the available
options you'll see that 1280 by 720 is
considered the best and there is nothing
over that however there is a 1080p mp4
dash video and if we're familiar with
dash video now I can't download that
directly because what it is is it's a so
that if my bandwidth were low okay it
would automatically clock down to 720p
and then if it starts to stutter it will
clock down to 480p you can see that just
above that but then there's also an
audio track with your dash audio which
is separate from the video so the video
is automatically going to be able to
change between 1080p 720p 480p 360 240
and 144 but the audio stays static and
there may be other audio tracks
depending on your video but you can't
directly download a dash video because
it won't play it's meant to be auto
fluctuated between different bit bit
rates however I want that 1080p how can
I possibly do that because the video if
I download it will not work that's why
youtube-dl is saying this is the best
one 720p what we can do is we can
actually specify which version we want
by changing that to a lowercase F and
then adding the numerical value next to
see those 140 160 133 so the 1280 by 720
file is number 20
to the 1080p video dash dash video is
137 but it has no audio and it won't
play at last we do this so dash
lowercase F 137 if i hit enter on that
it's going to download the dash video
but i won't be able to play it now i
need to combine it pardon me combine it
by pressing plus and then find the audio
track which is number 1 40 so i type in
140 so now my link looks like that or my
command looks like that dash lowercase F
1 37 plus 140 it's not going to be the
same for you you need to first do the
uppercase F to get this list with the
corresponding numbers on the left column
there and then you can combine the two
so now if i hit enter it's going to
download a game but this time there goes
you can see it's taking a little bit
longer because it's getting different
formats but look it merged the format's
into that particular file okay so let's
take a look at that go back to my folder
here it's overwritten the file and if i
click on it it's going to start playing
oh there it is okay i'm going to stop
that right click on it and go
information codec and you'll see now my
file is 1920 x 1080 so I've actually got
the HD full quality video and that could
be 4k that could be 2.5 or whatever the
highest quality is that you want so the
next step is audio if I don't want video
but I just want an mp3 file for my mp3
player so that I can listen to my
favorite podcast you like category 5
technology TV so you want to get an mp3
file of that video that you found on on
youtube and and we license you to do so
because it's creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada so you can do
that so how do we do that in one fell
swoop so i can download convert and have
an mp3 file as my end result youtube-dl
will do that for you as well oh if you
just just happy i do just do it well you
can't just grab the audio because the
audio is dash format okay so it will not
work what we have to do instead let's
jump back
is we say okay back and up let's do this
I hit up there's my original command
where it's just meant to download the
720p or best yeah so now I can go dash
dash extract dash audio so I'm telling
it what I want to do is I want to
actually extract the audio from this URL
is file and then dash dash audio dash
format space mp3 and if i hit enter on
that it's going to grab the audio from
what it thinks is the best version of
the video or i can specify dash
lowercase F 140 and it will grab it from
the dash audio which is 128 k worst it
thinks it's the worst because it's the
smallest file right but now if I just do
it on the URL itself without any extra
command so we've done youtube-dl dash
dash extract audio dash dash audio
format with a dash in the middle net mp3
and then the URL and it's wrapped the
next line if i hit enter what's going to
happen is it's not downloading the mp3
it has downloaded the video and then it
has converted it to mp3 and then it has
deleted the original file the video okay
so if I and it actually looks like it
grabbed the m4a file the audio file not
the video so that's cool so it actually
knew that I was going for audio so now I
should have two files in that folder one
of them is an mp3 file all right and if
I double-click on that
there it is yep I've got the audio from
that video so that works out really well
if I want to take it in my mp3 player
and not watch video I can't watch video
in the car that's dangerous and now
you'll be able to do it just take the
mp3 mm-hmm that's all there is to it
folks that's YouTube dash dl it's
available absolutely free for you on
linux your favorite linux distribution
we use debian tonight and so the
commands to install it may be a little
bit different if you're on for example
and tear ghosts or arc you may have to
bring up pac-man and do a search for
YouTube dash dl whatever your favorite
package manager is just look for youtube
dash dl and that will get the most
current copy from that repository for
you this is category 5 technology TV and
I'm Robbie and I'm Shelly and if we've
helped you out today or in the past feel
free to saw something in our tip jar you
do that that's a great idea donate doc
category 5 TV that's it or even through
patreon yeah patreon.com / category five
and then you're able to participate in
the draw for to these teeny droid 22 of
them get to the gate two of them we're
not giving away one of these we're
giving away two of them to the same
person so you get to race check that out
there's also the partner links that
we've got I mean there's been a lot of
chat about that in the room tonight
various things so I mean we've also got
the the partner links and you can check
that out as well you know maybe you want
to get a custom t-shirt says I am route
on it something like that yeah that was
going on chapter yeah it's true we even
go to our partner links and we've got by
shirt right there you go to cat5 TV /
shirt to go right to that site like
second fav time to create a shirt or on
our page yeah okay yeah we've got
partner pages all throughout our network
but to jump on to category five dot TV
the the show website for category five
technology TV if we go to support us up
at the top here and you'll see our tip
jar not everything but then we've got
our partner affiliate links oh okay it
takes you over here and we've got I mean
so many different things to choose from
these are all our partners at the
current time and this is an evolving
list and sometimes
come and sometimes they go so keep on
top of what we have here certainly
amazon is a very popular one with our
viewers ebay dreamhost for cheap web
hosting we even have a coupon code there
to get you unlimited hosting for seventy
dollars a year we've got ebay Dollar
Shave Club if you've got a you know
everybody needs to shave so hey there
you go best you yeah well I do Dollar
Shave Club for the win there we go Stone
that's just through our website category
five TV and thank you everybody for
supporting us we really really
appreciate it and we feel just so
appreciated and with every time that I
get an email that we have a new patron
and it's 25 cents an episode it's from
an individual standpoint for you
individually it's it's not that tough
and some people are doing one dollar in
episode some people are doing five
dollars in episode and you can choose
but starting at 25 cents an episode
that's all it takes and it makes us feel
so good to know that our viewers are
standing by us and there's power in
numbers so the more of us that come
together and make that happen the better
the shows are going to be the you know
if we're on top of our rent and
everything else then we're investing in
new equipment we're able to get upgraded
this and that and going from there we've
been doing this a lot of years we were
really looking forward to what to tell
thanks Shelley for being here oh thanks
Jeff great to see you and thanks also
add them on camera and thanks to you for
watching category 5 technology TV see
you next week we hope you enjoy the show
category 5 TV broadcasts live from
Barrie Ontario Canada ever
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern if you're
watching this on demand or through cable
TV check out the local show times in
your area at category 5 TV and find out
when you can watch live and interact in
the community chat room category 5 is a
production of prodigy digital solutions
and is licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
