for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
you
welcome to episode number 292 of
category five technology TV it's Tuesday
the 22nd no 2320 of april 2013 hey hey
everyone how's it going come on Erica
it's going great good to see everybody i
said we're gonna just kind of take it
slow off the top of the show here why is
that Erica why is that because my
Greyhound services decided to break down
on the side of the road it's like that
just like that it was really interested
in lodo boosts that's the bus bringing
her here yes I did the conk out so it
was nice no I'm done school tomorrow and
today was just one of my second last
days and before I start my summer
semester yeah and so happy to come down
here and then all the sudden bus breaks
down and I thank God to my friends who
saved me and drove me all the way down
here and I need you guys yeah and here
she is so we have to thank you both game
early I know it's like its gaming
nostalgia week here category 5
technology TV so it's gonna be awesome I
mean I can't wait to talk about gaming
from the 80s and that's what we're gonna
be doing right here on category five
tonight so looking outside there's not a
lot of snow to ski in but lots and lots
of water yes water skiing yet no I can't
water-ski you can't water so you can't
water-ski oh the same thing it's not the
same you have to have a lot more
balanced and I find because I fine I
just topple over like I would have
thought I'd be do and I think you need a
lot more strength to tell you the truth
I can't pull myself up every time I just
go face-first you realize the boat will
do that right the pulling part you just
kind of hold on tight I tried it does it
doesn't work it just goes right back and
then right back and then I just give up
so i just might as well get a tube yet
does he sit down
and get to relax unless if your dad
decides to do doughnuts are some time to
do that yeah showing off dance I
would've thought it'd be the other way
around i'm not a skier at all it by any
stretch but i actually i decided to
skateboard a lot yeah it's ready I
remember you mention that yeah it's if I
don't hurt myself skiing I hurt myself
skateboard yeah so that that's why I
think it would be easier to water ski in
my head because I wouldn't be afraid of
falling I might not more willing to I'm
way way more afraid of falling in the
water really yes like a few rocks rocky
cliff edge oh geez I fall off a cliff
water with its this I'm beat series
which one is scarier to you really i
mean i'm traveling really really fast
two kids woman i rather hit i don't know
i had at the time when I fell off the
cliff yeah I had to get little students
i was teaching and their glove the time
the kids look at me know and I'm telling
them to stop crying as I'm literally I'm
pick i'm climbing up an ice wall because
I went down to grab their MIT and I fell
down a cliff because awful though you
know on the chairlift you say kids
please hold on your stuff of course the
MIT goes flying off the chair lift and
I'm like well you know I'm not gonna
return a kid without there's you know
clothing so I go over to the cliff and I
just gonna chill I reach over and I go
to grab the mint and I fell down the
cliff and after hitting trees and then
you know knowing where I was um I had
and then one of my skis fell down the
cliff holy cow so okay so let's back up
a second so I had one ski on my shoulder
I got two kids crying at the top yeah
not way down and I take my clubs throw
them in my pocket and I got ice and I'm
digging with my ski boots and one hand
and I'm climbing up this cliff okay I
get to the top I like hug these children
there stop them from crying like why are
you crying
that I wanted to cry cuz I thought I was
gonna go down this cliff and just over
am it but do you mind if I just back up
a second okay let's take the story and
just say can teach some kids to water
ski and one of them drops their mint
it's floating over there in the water so
I pick it up I give it to them but yet
you're more afraid of that if I fell in
it won't splash like I just I don't want
to get ya jaw is exactly right shark in
Ontario I don't think that's her concern
like a pike they could I Mike anything
touches my foot I'm gone like what is
that you're a model zebra mussels are
after me here traveling along this
surface no it touches my foot I'm gone
I'm swimming away I'm just know like I
did rather just be in a fetal position
in that limit late I still I still
disagree I still disagree hey what is
coming up tonight well tonight in the
newsroom um HTC is one smart phone um
HTC one smart phones have been using
Nokia's exclusive parts a new GMO
version of E coli can now be used to
convert sugar into diesel fuel I'm
saying that for years a Bing search is
five times more likely to serve up
malware than the same search on Google a
UK designer has built a giant spider
like rideable robot just for fun oh nice
so stick around with these stories
coming up in the show room later cool
okay tonight we start off our gaming
nostalgia week here at category 5 for
the next six days you're just going to
be thinking retro games and all of the
wonderful things they used to do on your
Atari 2600 head on over to our website
category five dot TV and in lieu of
nostalgic gaming week here at category
five go anywhere on our website hit up
up left right down and enjoy
you do you do I love the nostalgia up up
left right down that's your top secret
code category five dot TV will probably
leave that up for a few weeks just for
your sheer enjoyment it's always
enjoyable okay our mobile website also
is up m dot cat five dot TV if your
mobile device you want to scan that code
or just visit the website mcat five dot
TV is the place to go in category five
dot TV is a member of the tech podcast
network and if it's tech it's here and
the international association of
broadcasters if internet broadcasters
alright well I I want to give a shout
out I mean we've got new viewers joining
our website we've actually moved our
website over to a new server which I'm
very very excited about parts of our
kind of clouding our services here at
category five making it so that it's
more accessible around the world and
we've got a handful of new viewers
joining us on the web site tonight al
Peck one one man one d Leon n slm hello
to you blue bandit dirty polo and no
knees cat 22 I like that name yeah those
are our new registrants on the website
well welcome to everyone's nice to chat
with it we love to have you register on
our website that signs you up for some
cool bonus features that are not
available to unregister viewers and it's
free we don't spam you we don't do any
of that we don't share your your
personal information with anybody and so
you know go to our website category 5 TV
to get involved tonight we're going to
be looking at retro gaming so start
thinking about you know what what was
your first gaming experience as far as
what kind of games that
III think the best way to say nine days
with the neshamah six we'll get to that
we'll get to that but what was start
thinking about this you don't need to
answer me yet Erica because we'll talk
about it after the break but what is the
first game that you SAT there and played
for days think about that and then PMS
in the in the chatroom private message
us yes and let us know your thoughts on
that will come back right after the
break we'll be right back think at eco
alkalines we believe you should be able
to trust your batteries not just here
but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance the rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference eco alkaline scom
of alien ships the defenders sees lots
of radar blips every bleep is the
watches my guidance
on a body magic trip
I'm tender to save them
great Atari game have you played
defender it's the newest of the smash
hit home video games that just keep
coming only from Atari depends on me
today just remember kids every blip is a
ship every bleep position fantastic yeah
that takes me back ok so we're thinkin
about nostalgic retro gaming tonight the
question is what was your very first
game that you SAT and and and played for
days on end Heather you probably are
have an answer for this you think about
it too so chat room all you have to do
is private message us let us know John
says his first game was a breakout that
came in on an introduction cassette with
a ZX Spectrum 16k classic later it was
upgraded to 48 k imagine that AI mean
now we've got you know 16 gigs of ram is
not unheard of we're talking like 16
kilo lights yeah kilo yikes okay we've
got some responses on Twitter Rob gore
on twitter says that's a long time ago
but would probably be the atari 2600 and
would either be space invaders or Galaga
VK seven HSE on twitter uses our hashtag
cat5 TV and says space invaders on again
the atari 2600 and his was the woody
model would he how cool is that i still
remember i mean i I'm a little older
than you so so like I say your gaming
was you know come but
around intended for for me it would have
been the Atari 2600 Christmas morning
probably 19 81 or 82 I suppose somewhere
around there because I mean the Atari
2600 came out in 1977 if we can believe
that 1977 yeah give or take and it was
kind of the flagship that started at all
as far as okay now there's going to be
this personal gaming kind of this whole
new thing yeah I remember getting that
Atari 2600 and gaming was brand new
nobody had ever done it before video
games were not ever done before no you
imagine that and like yeah I can I can't
imagine that is like a whole new
experience like well I can with them
like video games like on the computer
and stuff yeah like I remember when it
was just we only had it for school and
then when I could buy video I con
computers and all that maybe that I
don't know if that's the same stuff that
you used but no drumstick says that he
played by plane on a magnetron magnetron
apart e / me xt with 640k of ram ran at
about four megahertz or eight megahertz
with turbo on do you know what an xt is
you remember those I do not know that
was like the big old personal computer
like this like the open it up and then
all the parts you know like I did not
have one of those unbelievable CGA
monitors and you know black screen with
yellow text and that's it that's all you
get the graphics are basically ascii
characters moving around in yellow EGA
came out you know in an era shortly
after that and suddenly you're you're
wooo 16 colors it wonderful is that
which is amazing so drumstick took a
little bit of a different pro
kind of approach we're working with the
personal computer and that's something
else that came along who else would we
got that Dave may do flight simulator on
the zx81 with a wobbly 16 kill kilobyte
ram pack I was he says I was set them
back then in 1981 very cool so again
that a game with that unit at Nintendo
Entertainment System a Jameson 55 79
says Zelda yes and the first RPG Dragon
Warrior you remember Zelda the cartoon
that came out as a following the the
actual you know when the game was quite
popular I missed there was a cartoon
there was the mark mario brothers i
can't believe i miss the adventures of
Zelda you know sure you could like
YouTube it or something their most
successful game that came out in the end
Zelda like which was a candy of time
when once that came out like that's not
even the it was the middle of the story
they released the middle before they
even were like yeah they they released
the middle of the story before they even
released the beginning and they just are
yeah like I got the Zelda um casal book
it was I picked up this year and I got
to read about all the characters got to
read the story line yeah and you get to
read they didn't even mention the
cartoon that they produce it just went
went on about the games and our Kenya of
time was my favorite Zelda game and it
was just a kid when I read the book it
just baffled me that they go in the
middle of their epic story and release
that first and I just yeah it wasn't
planned the legends of Zelda the very
first NES and you think it's the very
first one but it's not your middle of
the story of this year chapter and when
you keep on really you're like here's
the here's the climax of the story let's
build the game and then oh this is so
popular now we got to build more to it
exactly and it's like
was it like was it even there you know
like intention at first like no you come
up with like win maker and all these fun
games everyone's getting into Zelda
later on and it's not even a part of
this whole line like doesn't follow
through think about Mario being the
character from Donkey Kong greatly
that's his origin and that branched out
into Super Mario Bros yeah and then
super mario brothers on the ne yo Luigi
yeah and all that kind of stuff super
mario 1234 and and so it continues my
kids play super mario galaxy nowadays on
the wii totally different thing I'll get
it I don't get it right and I try to
tell them you know when when I was a kid
it is all side-scrolling side scroller
so I didn't have to figure out how to
avoid the Plasmatics now you can
actually be Mario you could like you
know you could like even with in Zelda
we could you could even pull the bow
yourself with the wii and you're
involved in the game now that's what you
got a nice like you know yeah if you
actually look at the books and like old
games and you can look up you know where
the story actually took place it yeah it
kind of changes a little bit how how you
played the game first when i first
played zelda it was awesome that was my
game that's my dad introduced it to me
as soon as i could play a video game and
that's the game i played since grade 7
she still blazin to this day I'm
noticing that a lot of people are 2600
fans atari 2600 and i think so being
that that was one of the first major
systems perhaps the biggest of the time
like when when gaming was a new thing
even no matter what age you were at that
time if you wanted a video game that was
the system that you ran out and bought
that was what you got for you to kids
that was the system for everybody
because it was the the new thing so what
happened with Atari I mean they were
huge part of me they were huge and then
they vanished yeah they made one really
big big big fatal mistake which was they
thought
they would always control and they would
always be the ones creating the games
for the Atari 2600 and for the
subsequent systems so imagine they've
released this console and they said okay
we're going to release this and make it
affordable so that people can buy it and
you know a virgin actually get one for
their kids and people can buy this on
their their income and then and then
they thought that they would make their
money on the games because they had all
the programmers they had the people who
were creating the the games themselves
so it started out really really strong
games like defender and all that right
but then people realize oh I can make
cartridges for this system people being
other programmers and people that could
sell games what they thought it's a bit
of a gray area is it legal for me to
create games for the Atari 2600 when I
don't work for Atari so a whole bunch of
Atari staff who were fed up with the way
that Atari was basically treating them
and we'll talk a little bit about that
too said okay well we're gonna we're out
of here and they started up a company
called Activision who you recognize the
name even to this day yes and they said
okay well we've had it we're going to
actually create games for this console
we're going to create the games but
we're going to do it under our own name
we're not going to give a dime to to
Atari so of course here they come and
all of a sudden there's all these new
games coming out and so Atari decided
okay well this is wrong so we're going
to sue them and they lost because the
courts judge that no they're allowed to
to make games for this console there's
nothing to stop people from making games
for this new console that was out so all
of a sudden now it's perfectly legal
everybody knows it's legal to do it and
you've got hundreds and hundreds of game
developers who all of a sudden rise up
and say I want to get in on this action
so they start creating games but they're
not very good at it so all of a sudden
the quality of Atari went from here when
they were doing they were
only ones doing the games to litter
don't just like you would have like like
like like I said a spaceship and he
would just be following something that's
the entire game what's the object what's
the object of the game oh you need to
flip flip you need to flip that you've
got you've got all these bargain bin
games now available for the console and
nobody wants to buy the actual Atari
games because they're full price so
instead get all these really really
cheap games so then what started
happening is Atari had to compete with
that the bargain bin prices so they
started giving six weekly times for
games to be able to be created so that
they didn't have to pay the developers
as much and and all that kind of stuff
so that they could then compete with
this cheaper game for the Atari 2600
which they created there was nothing in
place for them to control the games that
were being made I don't know if you ever
saw or if you ever saw maybe you at home
you ever see the pacman that came out
for the Atari 2600 was just as a good
example yeah it wasn't even comparable
to regular pac-man it was not comparable
glitchy it was yes misfits glitch glitch
all the way across the screen should we
take a look you should remember that ok
they're trying to compete with the
bargain bin gaming these up and rising
companies that are building these really
cheap crummy game this is what they came
up and this is what they came up with
from
oh look out I think they're my god i put
packed in 3d there's a ghost there we
didn't even see but it gets worse yeah
the game the you know the inability to
create quality games continues and you
know Spielberg comes out with this huge
movie that was et 80s right you remember
the movie everybody remembers the movie
well this is the first game that I ever
bought was et for the Atari 2600 I was
so excited this with my own money and I
decided I was going to actually go and
buy this game and it was et based on the
movie is going to be great so Atari paid
Spielberg you know 20 million dollars or
some crazy number like that to have the
rights to be able to make this game but
by the time they got the rights they had
literally just weeks to not just program
it but also create the cartridges print
them package them and get them into the
store shelves weeks weeks it's the study
very close to that's crazy i bought this
game i took it home and I litter I did
play it and play it play it trying my
best to figure out what on earth the
object of this game was we'll have a
quick look at that okay so you remember
this then this take you back
how many of you played this by a show of
hands Eddie little please okay so that
is he coming down from a spaceship look
at that areas my graphics are one thing
but okay what am I gonna do oh there's a
a dot over there which is in fact a
candy apparently that looks like an off
Jade of grass yeah something like that
in a couple of Chevron's so imagine the
poor programmer had to create this and
had so much riding on but here's the
thing see Atari bit themselves in the
back end because what was it that the
guys had had come up against and edit
the people from Activision said you know
one of the things that really bother us
about Atari is that they don't allow us
to put our names and credits nobody
knows who creates the games for Atari
there's no there's no credits at the end
of the game there's no credits at the
beginning of the game kind of thing that
was part of the kind of arrangement that
Atari had one with its programmers so
whoever's programming it is thinking
well nobody's gonna know that it was me
exactly so they could just throw it
little bugs here there I don't know that
they would intentionally throw in bugs
but with the time that they were given
this is what was serious you know this
is what happened so if you learn your
way around the game that was one thing
but it was so hard to comprehend what it
was you as et was what we were actually
doing in this game looking for pieces of
a phone so you can phone home no no real
story line or plot to it realistically
so I mentioned Activision and and how
they kind of branched out this company
was created from Atari programmers and
I'll play a commercial from them from
the early 80s and you'll see one of the
things that they do is and I hope that
this commercial has it but a lot of
their commercials the they actually at
the end of the commercial would name the
programmer so if it was Robbie Ferguson
who created the game all of a sudden
they would say this game was created by
Robbie Fergerson at the end of because
they were not allowed to do that at
Atari and that's what they wanted to
accomplish with
with Activision which is kind of an
interesting thing you know it's all
about notability and being a creator of
some form of artwork and so of course
Activision started bringing out some
really great games like pitfall so you
know third-party games coming out they
were selling a ton but none of the money
was going to Atari the very
manufacturers of the device itself so
let's take a look at this this quick
spot from Activision we have no choice
the head burn fiber a target at zero
three Niner control pushing there's
places to go skating with good call
geotechnical serve choppers at three
o'clock Thunder I can be enjoyed letsa
go he'll decide that your critical sir
he knows that so he's off please
negative as a trap radio sweet over to
make it liberate camera Megan
it's only a game River aid for the
entire video computer systems designed
by Carol Shaw for Activision there you
go see designed by Carol Shaw see how
they have they accomplished that right
so you might have noticed too one of the
amazing things with the earlier games
and looking back on them now we can see
the graphics and we think wow that's
really really cheesy unbelievably cheesy
but at the time I remember that it was
really exciting like defender was one of
my first games I think that that I
really really solidly got enjoyment out
of and played for hours on end that's
the one that we saw at the very
beginning of the segment and it's it's
cheesy by any standards that are even
semi modern but at the time even though
it's just a little triangle flying
around a screen shooting dots it's fun
they it was this funny a fighting game
and it's and it at the time you thought
it was everything it was amazing they've
made you think spy hunter on the
spectrum that takes me way back I think
I could even hear the song still in my
head that DD didn't think anything
didn't think they'd ain't thinking
anyway so speaking of games you know
back in the in in those days the early
80s they would create these masterful
promotions that would just make them
look like wow this is incredible and
I've got to run out and get this game
for example star wars star wars it's
Britney arcade Tie Fighters baubles
what's the lazer tourism info Topsail
pick on the couch use the frost coming
too fast shields are gone some guy in a
galaxy of video games there is only boy
high-reward New York so you look at that
anything wow this has got to be some
game right well we actually we are
thrilled to actually have a ColecoVision
right here look at this classic thing oh
yeah Heather get some of that and on
colecovision was that you know the star
wars game came out do you want to see
what this actually looked like like that
was thrilling right like that was really
really exciting for me have you ever
seen on these yeah like it's in the
commercial like it just feels like in
the commercial is it was astoundingly I
mean they were did a great job for
nineteen eighty commercial let's see
what Star Wars let's see what Star Wars
actually looks like there we go okay
Parker Brothers presents oh yeah select
a Death Star all right we'll fit that
one to two you remember these sounds it
was just constantly going going going
and get stuck in your head won't shoot
the fireballs quickly quickly shoot the
fireballs no so everything's pretty
static on the screen remember the
commercial that we just saw for this
good pretty epic let's say you're moving
yeah well there are some there are some
dots that are semi coming toward me
pretty amazing that's awesome the the
other thing that kind of happen i look
at the colecovision for example and in
television is another example and then
you've got the whole home pc kind of the
personal computers that were coming up
at the same time because things were you
know there were tons and tons of games
available and people were seeing that
manufacturers were seeing that we need
to get in on this colecovision comes out
and it's you know got better better
control I guess they quite good games
yeah like just what the different art of
remote yeah there you go these are quite
similar to me to the intellivision which
I played at my uncle's house as a kid
those are very very similar to that and
colecovision as it was one of the you
know great systems of 1982 1983 what
made it so popular and it's sold you
know within the first kind of year of it
existing on the market sold over 500,000
units what made it so popular was this
cake Donkey Kong turkey car because
people were looking for that arcade feel
because remember up until these systems
were coming out they cut a Atari kind of
failed with bri that our care to feel to
the games right well no they did have it
to some degree but people were kind of
losing losing into some of the games
right yeah with the quality and talky
Kong definitely so along comes
colecovision and this is an actual
license Nintendo product you see that so
Nintendo licensed the character donkey
kong in the game itself from the arcade
to this cartridge so people are looking
for that arcade feel at home this was
the closest of all of the Donkey Kong's
are out there this was the closest to
the actual arcade game yeah and you just
stick it into your colecovision there
you go give her a tap fire it up this is
classic
see this and here it is the famous
colecovision splash screen the first
splash babe okay there's Mario for one
thing go up the ladder there or this we
have that hammer peanuts help us out k
smash it smash it watch out for this one
oh okay chase it no you can't chase it
too fast is moving too fast we're gonna
get up to the top I need to rescue the
princess from Donkey Kong my daughter
fluids seven years old says me it
doesn't make any sense Donkey Kong is a
name never seen any of these old games
there we go yes so that's what that's
what really allowed the colecovision to
make its way to market and and really
become a famous device we that I pretty
much mint here big thank you to our
friend kevin richards from theobroma
chocolates you can find them cat5 TV /
yum he has actually kept this in in
pristine shape it still works that's
beautiful we got tons of games somebody
in the chat room was mentioning it
Smurfs yes how do you like that and for
the time the graphics were insanely
awesome right what else do we have that
might bring back some memories we've got
a mousetrap time pilot the old blackjack
and poker super action baseball you
remember that one pup I this one takes
my takes me back burgertime burger time
what was the point of that game you just
kind of ran around just like every other
Cliquot vision game
red things are flying at ya I i believe
the goal was like to catch all the parts
for the burger or something I do like
the goal of the Cliquot vision games
compared to games nowadays he's gonna go
around I'm a catch thing yes you know
you're fine I check this out folks look
at that closest thing to 3d of the day
kevin was saying to me the interesting
thing about Qbert was that after playing
it for so long all of a sudden the thing
would invert and you're not sure what's
what because everything's in inside out
right really yeah cuz it wasn't actually
3d there was no 3d back then what was
that lots of feedback in the chat room
from people I don't know if you can just
find who is playing what games are
remembering what games from back when
they were kids um manic miner and Jet
Set Willy on the spectrum so Jet Set
Willy Jet Set Willy I'm not sure about
that one um I haven't seen too many Dave
may do mentioning I did see some fly by
but understanding chat room does is it
by perfectly there David who says most
of the games when he was growing up
through the home computing era the
earlier days of personal computers it
was all on a cassette and I remember my
vic-20 I actually saved up and i bought
a cassette deck for it because there
were no hard drives there was no such
thing there was no floppy drive at that
time there were cassettes like audio
cassettes nice thing about it was cheap
media I could go to any store and buy
the audio cassettes and then I just push
record on the cassette and tell it to
output to the cassette and it would
start playing the audio anchor
to the cassette and then when you want
it to load the data back off of it you
play it back and it would interpret
those sounds or however it actually
worked Ezra Lee it's magnetically stored
on a cassette analog how interesting
that's how it was done back then so I
would program in basic on a vic 20 and
export everything to cassette tapes and
what was cool about that is we had you
we all had boom boxes back then right
with the dual cassette deck and the
high-speed dubbing so my friends would
come over and I've got I've sat down and
I've programmed in pac-man right with my
book and I flipped through the pages and
I programmed in pac-man page for page
I've figured out all the syntax errors
and I got it working so that my friends
would bring over a cassette we'd pop in
the friends cassette we'd pop in my
cassette push play on mine and record on
theirs and high-speed dubbing in here
has done and now they take it home and
they've got a copy of pac-man from that
is my blue box right so Dave may do I
hear you there yeah hey that's very
smart very cool guy cool okay so big
thing happened in 1983 the entire thing
collapsed because we've talked a little
bit about what happened with Atari and
what Atari was doing at the time and the
mistakes that they made and quite
frankly the entire cost their interest
in personal gaming because everything
was just so bad it was getting so bad
you saw something you know like et was
made by Atari and then and there were so
many games available that were third
party and you never knew what you were
gonna get and it was just junk so people
just said you know forget that people a
lot of people started just going right
toward the personal computer era but
then ok so the whole kind of thing
crashed and I mean really like it
businesses went out of business the
colecovision disappeared in 1985 I think
it was nineteen eighty-five 1986 they
sold about two million units in the
course of you know
distance but all these companies just
dissolved because they couldn't they
couldn't sell games anymore nobody would
buy them nobody would buy consoles so
they vanished and yes I saw John saying
that Atari was bought up at one point
that happened after they crashed after
they discipline they basically failed
completely because they destroyed the
market or they were destroyed because of
some of the bad decisions that they made
were unfortunate decisions because it
was a I guess I wouldn't say bad
decisions it was they were babies you
know like the first pioneers so they
make mistakes of course but who learned
from those mistakes every other console
company and they was the first to really
exploit it was Nintendo right the very
ones the colecovision were paying
royalties to right ah what do
colecovision do they paid Nintendo to
buy Donkey Kong rights Nintendo had this
understanding that okay we can build a
console that we do not have to make all
the games we can allow third parties to
create games for it but here's the
kicker this is what Atari didn't do on
Nintendo every third party who is going
to program gaming has to pay us a
royalty in order to use that once you're
my clearance kind of hanging up your ear
so if I want to make a game for nintendo
I have to I have to actually paint in
Tendo in order to do that and I can't
create any games for nintendo unless i
have this chip built into my game
cartridge right so fantastic the
nintendo entertainment center system
arrives and with that in 1985 i believe
it was all of a sudden you've got this
solid gaming platform you've got a
company at the forefront that is doing
what what Atari was doing at the very
beginning of the 2600 which was having
absolute control over the games you had
really really strong titles like Mario
Brothers right all these really great
games and they were growing you know
duck hunt and all the fun stuff that
came with that the very first you know
now you've come the the ability to use a
light you know shooting controller on
your home TV instead of having to go to
an arcade back then that was really
really cool tetris was another big one
so Nintendo put this ability into their
device that people had to actually pay
in order to develop on it so it led to
stronger games stronger consumer
confidence and kind of rebirth the
entire gaming industry at that point
because it up until then I've until a
Nintendo Entertainment System people had
completely lost confidence in it so and
now here we are today you look at you
know how far it's come o games are crazy
like we could be CGI graphics
computer-generated graphics for all you
know that's how real stuff is now it's
wild I'm looking at the new lara croft
game and thinking wow you know how
awesome is that that it looks so real
and the gameplay is just astounding it's
intense like it you live inside of a
movie basically and like i'm even
noticing in our tvs you know like my
father just picked up a brand-new TV and
I'm sitting there watching regular TV
you know just compared to HDTV to now
with some 3d TV oh yeah it cost even
more games are just gonna start coming
that that'll be cool that will be very
cool mm-hmm instead of you going into
your games it's how to bring that
experience the games coming to us and
they did that like they did that great
with the arcades and you know the 1980s
they bring me Atari to bring it right to
home and it's definitely grown from
there so what are your thoughts at home
you know what what what games you know
that you're watching this after the fact
so you can let us know what games take
you back and some people are mentioned
in the chat room that hey you can
actually play some of these old games
you know that you're seeing here tonight
yeah you can there are am you laterz
there are you know you can install
something on the PlayStation I've heard
that allows you on the ps3 to be able to
play some of these old Atari games and
you see nes emulators all the time
go be it on linux windows on other
platforms I had a Nintendo Entertainment
System emulator full of games on a
single disc for the playstation 2 and
that's that's cool so I even had at one
point people are talking about these
kinds of things emulators and things I
was walking through the mall one year
and they had what looked exactly like a
Nintendo Entertainment System Controller
but it had RCA cables coming out of it
instead of a controller cable so it's
like oh that's cool so look at the box
yeah it's just a controller you plug it
right in New York to you exactly i plug
it right into the TV and it has a power
cord that goes into it as well and it
has like all of the Nintendo games built
into it it's probably highly illegal I
don't know if they're like I don't know
if it's if it's legit or not but it
exists and they're selling it in the
mall here and bury you know sometimes
around Christmastime there's always a
booth in the mall that sells this thing
and it literally gives you all those
classic games so if you want Mario one
two three and you know all that stuff
and it's literally all built into this
controller because now like we said you
know 16k was taking up this much space
before back in the 80s well now 16 k
what is that like you don't even it's a
measurement that is so minuscule that we
don't even use it we have cards that you
know my SD card is 32 gigs mmhmm yeah ok
how many KR in a gig like millions
billions trillions it's crazy Dave me do
has seen me said he sang I PSX emulator
on Android okay so on your tablet or
your phone you can be playing
playstation portable games that kind of
thing oh that's really cool nice well
what I like about would take even we you
could play all of they have like this
GameCube game you pull your you know I
like it's very compatible yeah they were
first we all the gamecube games
flight on the week yes and which seasons
better if anyone is a zelda fan just
like me you can get Zelda or Kenya of
Time and Majora's Mask gamecube game and
play that off the lead yeah i know and
i'll just be sitting there playing it
now I still put I got on to we use
kijiji here which is a local classifieds
and kind of covers all of Canada but and
I was looking through games and somebody
was selling off all their old GameCube
games because they got rid of the
Gamecube but you can we had just bought
a wii for Netflix mm-hmm and so I picked
up some of the games and I got a good
assortment of games for the kids for
like five bucks and they're all getting
cute games they work on the we got a
couple controllers with it and it was
fantastic so it works even better i love
mario party mario party was my favorite
on gamecube cuz he could keep you busy
even longer than monopoly monopoly never
kept me i don't know like maybe for me i
was a really young really young so I was
like later like six years old you know
you know beating up each other to use
the control or not using words though
and do lazy to use words and um yeah and
like you're just played mario party and
you're going against each other and that
was my favorite game for the gamecube
for sure kept us busy forever things
come so far so far yeah yeah oh alright
well papas an email live at category 5
with your dot TV with your thoughts live
at category five dot TV you won't mind
if I sit here and play some colecovision
while you're while you're reading the
news for us I don't know it's alright
maybe just step some Donkey Kong all
right ok so for category 5
top stories in the news so nokia has won
a court injunction banning HTC from
using microphone components in its
flagship a flagship HTC One smartphone
it will create more headsets for its ATC
which has struggled with component
shortages at its Taiwan plants nokia
said has taken a part of the HTC One it
has found a high amplitude audio capture
technology that was the same of its own
that wouldn't be a big deal itself but
here's the thing the court found out
that parts have been invented by Nokia a
manufactured exec mcsexy leave for their
phones the ruling made by the Amsterdam
district court is effective until March
2014 and will prevent SC micro which
sells parts from offering them to HTC
for sale wow that's surprising yeah like
it HTC said it would be looking for
alternatives immediately I'll say so the
parts that are of the miking system on
the HTC One are actually exclusive to
nokia yes wow I a team of scientists
from university of extra in UK say they
have created a strain of bacteria that
can produce few researchers what yeah
fuel feel they say that Reed researchers
genetically modified e.coli bacteria to
comfort sugar into an oil that is almost
identical to conventional diesel this
Wow yeah the team claims that if the
process could be scaled up this
synthetic feel could be viable
alternative to the fossil fuel synthetic
biologist professor john love said
rather than making a replacement feel be
visible like some by biofuels we have
made a substitute fossil fuel the idea
that is the car manufacturers consumers
and fuel retailers wouldn't even notice
the difference it would just become
another part
of the fuel production chain here's the
challenge to the team faces it takes
about a hundred liters of the modified
bacteria to produce a single teaspoon of
fuel what yeah that is not
cost-effective it doesn't sound like
Professor love says their plants
increase the yield so they can go into
industrial production obviously wow this
great discovery guys but we have these
massive vats of e.coli look at what it
will do to sugar we dump in millions of
dollars of sugar and out comes a
teaspoon of diesel that's an amazing
discovery it really is it is but
financially though you never know you
never know surprise I me Wow alright
what else have you got far is that I got
ton all right but it comes to keeping
web searches safe Google may have been
beat a study by independent research
firm av-test found that Microsoft's Bing
search engine is nearly five times as
likely as Google to link to Mauer a navy
test based in Germany said it took 18
months to analyze search results from
google and bing along with their other
search engines out of 11 million links
generated by search by searches during
the study google had 272 which led to
Mauer being on the other hand linked to
1285 sites which contain malware with
the same queries this this nearly
five-fold increase over google whether a
link isn't an email or in a search
result page it pastes remains I
skeptical and wary of any suspicious
links and if your browser tells you a
web page may be hosting my wire stay
away just in general that's wild
I didn't realize that Bing was that much
scarier thank you know it is it
definitely is great to know that cuz you
know like you you try to go from bing to
Google I like which one should I go this
cover do I google it or do I Bing it no
its bloom but anyways I just wonder if
it's that I don't think that Bing
Microsoft is doing a bad job i wonder if
just that Google is doing a really good
job protecting against malware because i
have noticed that like if a site
suddenly becomes infected it fairly
quickly dissolves from the search
results on google and it could be the
amount of people using it you know maybe
not they don't have as many traffic i'm
not hundred percent sure with Bing cuz
Bing is the little guys I'm not sure
they could be the little guys but not
too many people pinging know yeah I know
I just only do it if it's like if I get
a new laptop oh pings my you know
homepage I'll change that yeah sound
good this is exciting oh yeah wow I
would have been that that is not connect
when I tell the news in that ya dude I
told a news broadcast the show from
inside this giant robot spider guy and
we were just gonna report the news
everywhere so what's the story here so a
giant six legs spider like robot with
hydraulic legs have been unveiled by a
designer who spent four years creating
it Matt denton from Hampshire UK
estimates his very expensive toy has
cost them hundreds and thousands of
pounds but he says a mining company and
a Marine Research Organisation are now
interested in his design and he hopes to
be used at science fairs during this
development the machine has one outing
at a music festival or missing denton
says it is well received
doesn't it's an entertainment vehicle he
said but I hope it will definitely
inspired me so dances it dances that's
awesome that looks so cool and you can
get the full stories at category five
slash dot TV / newsroom and the category
5 TV news room is researched by roy w
Nash with contributions by our community
of viewers and if you have a new story
you think is worthy of an honorary
mention email newsroom at category 5 TV
alright well tonight's show thank you
erica is brought to you in part by net
talk at cat five dot TV / phone now
they've got unlimited text messaging you
can eliminate the need for wireless a
wireless text plan from your cell phone
provider all you have to do is upgrade
your nettalk duo account with the net
talk text plan and for the cost of a
couple cups of coffee per month which is
literally nothing you're going to
receive unlimited texting throughout the
US and Canada check out cap five dot TV
/ phone and start saving today also
check out netflix you can get a free one
month trial at cat five dot TV / netflix
this is category 5 technology TV our
website is down below their category
five dot TV if you're watching us on
Miro internet TV welcome watching on
blip TV hello ustream TV hey we've got
first run TV viewers hello to you justin
TV hello hello youtube nice to see you
if you're watching through our RSS feeds
great to have you here and how are you
watching the show pop is an email live
at category 5 DV always astounded to
hear how people are checking out the
show google+ hey nice to see ya dave may
who makes an interesting comment about
the spider robot says only a UK person
would build something that cool so it
only come from united kingdom only a
rich UK person would build something
that cool yes 400,000 pounds for
something that's just no just take it
out it on the weekends
that people see it and take pictures of
it you can always take pictures of it
just use it I don't know like I guess if
they if they like the design you could
do stuff that's it I could see military
applications or just stuff like it's
hard to access for example your training
some kids how to ski and one of them
drops their gloves so you over cliff and
so you use the spider bot hold on kids
and you get in and you kind of go over
to the edge and it's it's slightly less
dangerous it's lately listed yeah and
you know slightly less dangerous for my
back would ya oh ya know this thing has
got a padded seat it get Tina cushion
got like just like Garvey's grandparents
truck I wanted teach feet on it okay I'm
gonna I'm gonna program this thing I'm
gonna send him a little email yeah I'm
gonna be like I will learn how to help
you program this two teeth the pickup
adults and children the spider yes
you're gonna program it to pick up
children really scary the poor kids ah
those thing is coming to one hey guys
this is why you don't fall when you ski
that the spider comes off but nobody you
up okay kids like I'm gonna be here new
instructor this thing is coming toward
you that who knows how fast right it's
got six legs it's moving pretty good
yeah it's got skis on each leg it's
climbing up the side of a cliff with
your glove affixed to one of its skis
and this is that this is what you this
is how you teach children with horror it
works you know what I do it all the time
like if I could
you know I have five children or a
skiing by mean I say okay see that Cliff
over there don't fall down it right and
they all look at me everybody just stay
there i'm gonna go again I spider robot
in case you all down it I'll go get my
spider robot yeah and then I'll just all
the sudden you know you'll be fine I
feel seriously analysis keying ever not
for the kids the poor kids you know I
should yeah I should definitely take
some videos of my teaching kids this
year er yeah I gotta see this now you
got I've gotta see this works like I had
my younger sister with me and I just be
like okay so you see Melissa yeah
whoever gets to her first I'm not gonna
tell her but whoever at least tackles
her or can just get to her in some way
and I'll get her skiing all over the
place so then that way they learn and
they're all right you know that there
and to motivate you and to motivate you
I'm gonna be coming up from behind you
in this just like just like that go
after my younger sister it's okay and
then I'll just be up like behind them
like you know like Turner Taranis yeah
yeah yeah it's just like that that's the
sound that it makes it sounds like mr.
bean mr. bean miss Maddie mr. peep peep
along well oh boy hey next week Sasha
term adis is going to be joining us here
on category 5 technology TV don't miss
the show gonna be a lot of fun as ever
visit linux tech show com this week and
we've got your viewer questions next
week as well send them in to us live at
category 5 TV Erica so glad that you can
make it yes and I'm glad that I
make it and I say thank you so much to
my friends and I'm glad that I'm not
that bus driver you had to do oh yeah
and if you ever want me DJ skki let me
know good things better scared now it
become great skiers just like myself
there you go all right folks have a
great week it's kicker yes they're good
see
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at 7pm easter if
you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area a category 5 dog
TV and find out when you can watch live
and interact in the community chapter
category 5 is a production of prodigies
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
