welcome to episode number 320 of
category 5 technology TV i'm your host
robbie ferguson and I'm your co-host
eric liu lon Erica what's coming up well
take a look closer look at the news
coming up chromate the new chroma key
technology will be bringing up to studio
D with your help web developers sorry we
just have the wrong page there there we
go thank you that's okay it's not the
first one thing I've done today well
talk we'll talk a little bit later than
a couple of the antics before the show
that's all right just for fun coming up
in the newsroom netflix has started
testing ultra high-definition 4k video d
ban is threatening to switch X of F see
if Rome 3 doesn't bring back more
comfortable interface a robot has been
developed that can win rock paper
scissors every time and blackberry
shares have plunged after they announced
they're abandoning their sell off plan
stick around for these stories coming up
later in the show thanks Erica tonight
we are going to take a closer look at
the new chroma key technology as you
started to read into my lines but it's
called chrome at we're gonna take a
closer look show you how it works behind
the scenes also web developers you don't
want to miss out on tonight's show we're
going to show you how to actually deploy
a Windows 8.1 virtual machine on your
linux computer so that you can test your
websites and your web applications with
internet explorer 11 that's awesome
stuff don't go anywhere it is November
fifth this is episode number 320 and
it's going to be a great show stick
around this is category 5 technology TV
starring
Sasha dramatis Hillary Rumble crystal
wells air kid and your host Ravi
Ferguson
at eco alkalines we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance the rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference eco alkalines calm
now here's something we're really
excited about bringing to category fives
studio D with your help it's called
chrome at from reflect media now with
the traditional chroma key green screen
studio of course we'd have to paint the
walls green and that brings with it a
problem green reflections so of course
you know my skin sometimes our clothes
and products that we're displaying are
going to actually reflect the green that
surround us so that becomes a problem
and it makes it hard to key so of course
everybody who has ever built a green
screen studio knows what does that mean
you got to bring in more lights so in
come the lights and you've got all these
great big soft boxes they generate a lot
of heat they use a lot more electricity
and here's the kicker they use up a lot
of your floor space we want to avoid
that completely that's where reflect
media comes in this stuff's amazing
we've got a light ring adapter on this
camera and we place one of these on each
of our cameras here at category 5 and
then with the flow the simple flip of a
switch on this controller module and
you'll see that the gray screen that I'm
standing in front of automatically turns
into this perfect chroma key green and
it's perfectly illuminated I didn't have
to bring in any extra lighting so what
that means is we're able to utilize all
the space of studio D you'll see that to
the naked eye it's still just a grey
screen but to this one camera it's
perfect chroma key green so now we've
got all that extra space that we're not
using for lights and we're able to for
example enhance our news segment make it
look like a professional network
broadcast or perhaps you'd like to see
category 5 technology T
be broadcasting from a
multimillion-dollar studio well or so it
seems I mean everything around me is of
course virtual but that is what your
contribution can bring to category 5 TV
we're not just building a studio what
we're doing is we're enhancing category
5 we're taking ourselves to the next
level and taking your show propelling it
into the future this is going to mean so
much to category 5 technology TV all of
these technologies culminating together
I know eighty eight thousand five
hundred dollars sounds like a lot of
money but all of us working together we
can do this and category five is going
to be better than ever broadcasting
since 2007 category 5 technology TV has
grown year after year faithfully
bringing viewers hundreds of one-hour
episodes focused on helping with their
tech questions assisting with the
migration to Linux and other open source
alternatives presenting new and
interesting tech products and providing
insightful interviews and demonstrations
all this is provided free of charge we
are now in our seventh season and it's
time to improve the viewing experience
make the show look and sound great we
continue our focus on fun educational
broadcasting stand with us as we build a
brand new studio for category 5
technology TV bringing category 5 TV to
the world with better visuals full 1080p
video and a permanent sound isolated
studio we have big dreams and we want
you to be a part of them please support
category 5 technology TV visit cat5 TV /
studio to be a part of our crowdfunding
campaign for a limited time with
contributor perks brought to you in part
by category 5 technology TV back to
nature compostable garbage bags eco
alkalines environmentally responsible
batteries free play human powered
devices nettalk duo to with free calls
to the USA and canada and no monthly
phone bill and the android-powered
rikomagic mini pc we thank you for your
support please
visit cat5 da TV / studio today this is
Robbie Ferguson and I'm your co-host
air-cool along good to see ya yes good
to see them I've been really well
actually good good how you been well
yeah yeah it's nice to see everyone
hoping everyone's doing really well now
that the cold seasons coming in sure
enough i'm looking forward to skiing
this here yeah i guess that's coming no
they already started laying down snow at
the the snow hills and things oh I'm
actually getting cold enough yeah it's
definitely getting cold enough but they
haven't started yet all right but I'll
let you guys know when they do it we're
Canada here so you know I figured July
definitely well maybe for you at West
yeah maybe um but other than that um
I've just been in school and you know
enjoying my nice house I'm out of
residence so I'm living in my own place
now oh yeah yeah so I'm like not like a
thousand raging college students it's
just like a couple roommate focus on
your studies and that's good yeah house
parties no I'm just kidding well you
were on the show a while back we did the
nostalgia nostalgic gaming episode where
we looked at some old old classic games
that was a lot of fun and a very popular
episode on YouTube as a matter of fact
and so we've we've taken it upon
ourselves to look at some nostalgic
games that are available on modern pcs
since that time just to kind of keep
that that dream alive do you remember
hover on Windows 95 hover hover it took
me a minute to I wasn't hover hover
hover is it it's like a space game it
was like a it was kind of like a 3d maze
game I don't know it was it was a long
you know I remember descent and then
hover came with windows 95 it was a free
game that came with it was the first
time ever that an operating system came
with an actual 3d game it was astounding
so I've never actually played it hover
dot I II in your browser is going to
take you to a remake from Microsoft and
it's actually in your browser you can in
fact use the the video game hover from
windows 95 they've of course they've
stepped things up and made it look a lot
better with more modern graphics and
things like that but this is what the
Internet has come to is that that was
cool oh yeah you can some of you might
recall this right away as soon as soon
as you start playing it's like oh yeah I
remember this those were the days i play
games similar to this yeah very boxy
right so that's available in your web
browser and you can actually get that
through cat five dot TV / hover just
keep it simple cat five dot TV / hover
but that game came with windows 95 and
now you can actually run it in your
browser which you know that's that's
where technology has has been
progressing everything's becoming
web-based which is you know quite
interesting because way back when you
had to have giant sized hard drive so
that you can install all your
applications and run them locally now
it's becoming progressively more and
more server based and in fact hover at
that website is multiplayer up to six
players right through your browser
nothing to install just for no reason
other than nostalgia so check it out cat
5 TV / hover and we'd also like to thank
all the viewers who have sent in
donations to our IndieGoGo project to
rebuild the studio it's been exciting
seeing your contributions come in and we
appreciate every contribution that has
arrived we have just just under a month
before the end of the campaign at this
point so we'd encourage people if you're
if you're on the fence or thinking about
donating or perhaps you are planning to
but you just haven't done it yet we'd
encourage you to please do that cat 5 TV
/ studio just to give us that extra kind
of kick forward so that we can prepare
for studio D and
exciting stuff that's going to be
happening with that our mobile site of
course just to get through a couple of
things right off the bat m dot cat five
dot TV you can scan that QR code or
visit it through your mobile device's
browser Emmet cat5 TV and we'd also like
to welcome our new registered viewers
we've got a few this weekend yeah we got
a real brillz radio ah the bryn the burn
the burn the burn burn and i'm tech five
yeah welcome to the show you can
register for free at category five dot
TV thank you for registering on our
website as well and that is going to
allow you to be to be able to
participate in some contests and Erica
we've got some eco alkalines batteries
that we're giving away it's on the
calendar you can find out more
information I think it's two weeks away
that we're actually given this away
we've got several packs of batteries
that are basically like this so it's a
box full of this has got 24 triple a
batteries I've got 24 double-a batteries
we've got C batteries D batteries 9
volts all that we're given away and what
you need to do is just get into the chat
room if you're watching live right now
and just tell us your state or province
and if you're watching this after the
fact all you have to do is email me live
at category 5 TV we like to receive your
username what you'd like to us to call
you on air as well as your province or
state and we'll cast your ballot in that
draw in a couple weeks time so really
excited to be sending away yet another
eco outlines prize check them out Eco
alkalines calm they are certified carbon
neutral alkaline batteries with no
cadmium no mercury note lead the
probably the most environmentally
friendly batteries that you could find
so we love them here and also a category
5 TV is a member of the tech podcast
network for your modern web browser at
cat five dot I'm if it's tech it's here
thank you
we're also a member of the International
Association of Internet broadcasters and
we are just about set to jump into our
feature tonight all right it's always
fun isn't it it is mm-hmm mm-hmm all the
fun stuff that happens behind the scenes
and we'll carry on okay so tonight i
want to show you how you can actually
virtualize windows 8.1 we've been
hearing about Windows 8.1 which has just
recently been released and people are
getting the update and having to get
their systems up and running but as a
web developer here's the thing erica is
that we need to be able to test our
websites on an operating system that now
a lot of people are switching to but we
don't necessarily want to switch to that
operating system ourselves so in a case
like that well what do we do well we
turn to virtualization virtualization
allows us to run another operating
system on our what we'll call our host
operating system in my case I'm running
Linux in fact i'm running a distro of
linux called point linux and it looks
like this so it's a fairly familiar
interface even if you're a Windows user
you won't have any trouble getting
around point Linux we have links on our
website and i will post links for you in
the show notes of episode number 320 now
what we need is a tool called Oracle
VirtualBox and if you've got it
installed you'll find it under system
tools and you'll see that I do in fact
have that so as I bring it up there it
is and this is a virtualization platform
so that i can create virtual machines
not real physical so it's like i can
install windows i can install linux i
can install other operating systems
within a virtual space and run them as
as if their applications on my computer
so that's very smooth it's at idea and
if i need to use say a particular
windows application in our case tonight
its internet explorer 11 if i need to
access that and it's not a program i can
install on linux then I can through
virtualization operate that application
so similarly of course we can deduce
that okay well if you need photoshop or
QuickBooks for business you can use
virtualization to then create an
environment where
yeah you can run linux as your main
operating system so you're not
susceptible to viruses you don't have to
worry about you know the kinds of
threats that are out there attacking
Windows users but you can still have
windows as a virtual machine so that you
can still operate those needed
applications so tonight I want to walk
you through how we're going to do this
we're going to grab the tool that we
need from a particular website first of
all if you if you don't I mentioned you
need VirtualBox if you don't have it yet
you can in fact find it in synaptic
package manager or your favorite package
installation utility now you can also
use apt-get but you'll see if I do a
quick search VirtualBox there it is
right there so by installing that mark
for installation you would be able to
get that you'll see that i'm actually
using a different repository which i've
got off of virtualbox org if you want
some of the non-free components you can
do that and so I've installed VirtualBox
dash 4.2 so all we need to do is bring
up this particular website here we're
going to go to modern dot IE and just
hit enter on that website and on that
website you'll see the first thing that
you see is developer tools and we've got
download virtual machines for mac linux
or windows and we're just going to click
on that link next up we can choose Linux
as our desired testing OS that's the
host select our virtualization platform
as we mentioned is virtual box for linux
and then it gives us a whole ton of
lengths well what do we want to test on
ie6 no thanks ie8 perhaps if you're
developing for some older systems but
remember XP is gone as of April so if
you're still running XP you need to
upgrade because web developers are no
longer going to be developing for it and
neither our application developers okay
so ie7 ie8 so IE 8 on windows 7 is
obsolete ie10 on windows seven people
are still running so that's cool you
might want to try with that so these are
each of these are a virtual machines so
you may want to try you may want to
actually download and deploy multiple of
these you might want to try I eat n on
Windows 7 as well as ie10 on when
was eight to see if the user experience
is any different between those two
operating systems you might owe you may
want to try ie10 in Windows 7 to test
your web application and then try ie11
preview in Windows 8.1 so that you can
get that experience and see what it's
going to look like on these new windows
tablets and so on and so forth so what
we're going to do we're going to start
with the highest one of them all ie11
preview on Windows 8.1 preview now we
can sit here right clicking and save
link as and do that over and over again
for all four files but we're talking
probably you know there's probably about
two gigs worth of files there when it's
all said and done so we're going to
simplify this you'll see that there's a
Linux virtual box txt and if you click
on it it's just got a list of the links
to the other files well what what good
is that well we're on Linux so we can
actually use that as a source for a
script i'm going to copy that to my
clipboard copying the link location see
that and so we're going to actually use
that as an input file for a program
called w get so let's go over to let's
say our temp folder is where we want to
download it and we will say w get dash I
for the input file and then paste that
link and so what it's going to do is
it's actually in fact not just going to
download the text file its going to read
the text file find those other three
lengths and say okay I'm going to
download those three files as well so
just in one real quick fell swoop we can
hit enter on that and you'll see that
it's all of a sudden downloading all
these files so there comes windows 8
preview for Linux virtual box part 1
self extractor now that's going to take
a few minutes to come down and that's
just the first file so that we know that
there are two more files coming after
that so I've taken the liberty of just
down pre downloading those before the
show just so that we can expedite things
a little bit for us tonight so I've
placed those in a folder on my desktop I
downloaded them in exactly the same way
so you can follow along and in this
folder you'll see those four files are
there so we've got this SFX file we
don't really know what to do with right
and it doesn't
give us anything to do with it and if we
try to open it it's just going to say
could not display and then we've got a
RAR file and if we want to try
extracting the tournament Aurora file
well it says that there's no such file
or directory nothing's working and the
reason for that so you know I show you
the the potential problem so that you
can say oh okay Robbie showed me that
problem so now I know how to get around
that the thing is that they've set this
up as a RAR self extractor that's why
part 1 is not a dark dot RAR file it's a
dot SFX so what we actually want to do
is right click on the SFX file that's
the self extractor and go properties we
can do this through the GUI just to show
you permissions and you'll see allow
executing the file as a program so once
I've allowed that now I can either do
this through terminal or I'm just going
to double click on that and it seems to
do nothing except there's this new file
that suddenly popped up and you see it's
only 12 point 6 megabytes but if i hit
the pardon me the f5 key on my keyboard
to refresh you'll see that it's in fact
getting bigger and bigger and bigger
because that script is working in the
background to extract that file through
the terminal you would actually receive
more visual output so you would actually
see the progress of the extraction but
in our case because we're doing this
through the GUI we don't actually see
the progress so we just hit f5 to see
when it's done we can tell when it's
done because it's going to stop getting
bigger when we hit f5 f5 1.2 gigs I'm
guessing that this file based on the
other three files we've got one to two
point six gigs oh no to two gigs so it's
going to be a little bit over two gigs
so almost there any questions for us in
the chat room just pop those over to
category 5 on freenode and erica's
watching that for us one of the things
if there aren't any questions just yet
that I'll mention is that you see that
this is an OVA file that is being
extracted here so what is an ova file
first of all ovf is an open
virtualization format file which is
basically the folder of an entire
virtual machine it contains the the not
only the virtual hard drive
but it also contains the information
about the machine itself how much ram
does it have what kind of graphic
adapter virtual graphic adapter does it
have it's basically a contained and ovf
is a contained virtual machine in its
entirety so that you can import it
without having to recreate any of the
settings and OVA is simply a tar of that
flaw of that folder so it's basically
the Linux equivalent of say as if file
so that everything is contained within
one file and it's nicely compressed and
compacted so it looks like that's done
it's a two point eight gigabytes and it
hasn't moved up since then so we know
that it's done okay so i'm going to
double-click it's this easy i'm going to
because i have virtual box installed all
i'm going to do is double click on that
new ova file virtual box is immediately
going to open up and say oh hey look
I've got a new appliance here what is it
windows 8.1 preview it's going to use
the guest OS type of Windows 8 1 cpu 1
gig of ram it's got a DVD player it's
got USB controller and this and that a
v8 ahci on the hard disk controller so
it's all pre-configured I don't have to
figure out any of the settings or figure
out how to get Windows 8 to boot on my
linux host so I'm gonna say okay yeah
looks good import could it be that
simple maybe maybe maybe well we'll see
let's see all right I'm going to
reiterate to that this was all done
legitimately and no cost no no having to
pay for these files or anything like
that everything is free is and cost says
22 minutes remaining I know my
computer's faster than that so it's not
actually going to take that long i'll
guarantee you two percent
two percent it's like watching a kettle
I get two boys 23 minutes no not a
chance that would just no I imagined
that was that being the show let's just
watch a progress indicator for 27
minutes folks no but this is happening
live we're doing this live in real time
18 minutes there we just knocked off
three minutes four minutes and I kicked
it in the gear there we go ninety-nine
percent and count down from three take a
deep breath could it be done yes BAM we
have a Windows 8.1 preview virtual
machine now completely configured and
ready to boot right well no what we need
to do first and foremost right click on
it go settings we always do this when we
create a virtual machine because
everything is there but look at this
network your network adapter has not yet
been attached why is that well because
the OVA file was created on a different
machine with a different network adapter
than your host so what we need to do is
we need to go into those settings and
say okay let's use my network adapter my
actual physical network adapter so we're
going to go attached to bridged adapter
mine happens to be eth0 you might have a
different one in there or multiple make
sure you select the one that is in use
for your connection once I've done that
anything else that I want to do you
might want to if you're going to use
this for more than just testing you may
want to enable 3d acceleration and you
may want to crank up some of the the
memory on that card so let's do that
we're going to have 3d acceleration
turned on and hit okay so now our
windows 8.1 preview is ready to go
double click on it to boot here we go so
this is what I mean Erica by a virtual
machine basically a computer within a
computer now Windows 8 is booting as
basically a program on my computer so
everything that Windows 8 can do I can
do in this program window or for the
ultimate experience what i can do is i
can in fact present right ctrl key and
the f key on my keyboard that switches
to full screen so now my virtual machine
is practically going to feel like I'm
the windows 8 on my computer but all I
have to do to get out of it is simply
close it it's running like a program
that is actually so you know I've got I
can minimize it there I've minimized
windows 8.1 preview to my taskbar
figurative minimizing a mini operating
system just like that how do you like
that it's almost booted hi oh hi we're
setting things up doing everything for
you creepy Windows 8 what else have you
got for me installing gas this might
take a few minutes then chose you oh and
then it went blue oh no that's kind of
more of a purple let's start see
whenever I get windows and it goes blue
I expect the worst okay so here we are
in Windows 8.1 preview okay so I'm going
to go into my desktop just by clicking
oh ok i double-clicked there we are and
you'll notice of course down at the
bottom there is a Internet Explorer icon
oops my start button is also what I used
to zoom and apparently windows 8 likes
to say oh you wanted you wanted to go
back to that tile thing because you push
the windows button so you must want that
crazy blocky thing not so much okay but
there we are category 5 TV let's see how
we look on internet explorer 11 that's
what we're running here according to the
website that we downloaded it from
looking good yeah it operates the
virtual machine doesn't seem to perform
quite as well as a native operating
system but it gives you a really good
idea of the user experience how the
website is going to look how it's going
to render especially you may not get a
perfect impression of the performance of
the website as is the case for us right
now but it is working and we can see
that it works so there we are with
internet explorer 11 point 0 point 9 431
running on Windows 8.1 looks good
everything seems to render there it is
so why do we want to do this again
because as a web developer we need to
make sure that our websites work for as
many people as possible when we build a
website we want to make sure that it
works now gone are the days where you
know and and we say you know will
internet explorer 6 whatever it's gone
so you don't need to develop for that
anymore but there were days when we
basically had to create two copies of
every website that we built because
internet explorer was so far behind all
the other browsers now with internet
internet explorer 10 internet explorer
11 especially we're starting to see them
really grab the reins and and and catch
up to Chrome and Firefox as far as
standards go so things work a lot better
now but we still want to be able to see
that we want to be able to test it and
make sure that it's going to work well
for our users similarly on an upcoming
episode of category 5 we're going to be
looking at how to build pinnable website
and what that means we're gonna be able
to tap into some of the features of
Windows 7 Windows 8 with Internet
Explorer and be able to pin our websites
as applications on our task bar so you
don't want to miss out on that you're
going to need one of these virtual
machines in order to participate in that
feature so make sure you grab one from
modern dot IE that's all there is to it
windows 8 in a virtual machine windows
8.1 i should say we also had a question
yeah that from TN Frank that does our
virtual machine can we run it on Firefox
ie can we run Oh could we put yes
firefox on here well it's windows 8
right so i could go get firefox calm and
i could download firefox and install it
in my virtual machine so there you go so
there's no reason why not but see the
thing is is that with Firefox and with
chrome it's a little bit different
because those you can install the
current versions and past versions in
Linux natively so i can test in chrome i
can test in firefox all natively on my
operating system which is linux however
internet explorer
a windows-only applications so to speak
i know there's mac version and there are
ways to get around you know using wine
and stuff but the truest way to
experience internet explorer is through
microsoft windows mm-hmm so that's where
this virtual machine comes in it becomes
a testing environment for your Windows
users running Internet Explorer can you
install other browsers in there sure why
not but because you can do those
natively as well and Linux it's not
quite as necessary thank you very much
for the question and then we also have a
question of MTN Frank so do you actually
know that it's a testing for web
developers but do you actually have
windows 8 without having to buy coffee
no it's not it's not like a full version
of Windows 8 this is called Windows 8
preview and it's it is specifically for
this particular purpose it's not like
having a it's not getting a free copy of
the full windows 8 nothing like that
it's for developers to be able to
experience a testing environment for
their products so for me it's the web
applications that I develop we need to
be able to test them on Microsoft
Windows because more and more we're
starting to see people buying the
windows tablet systems that you know
you're using Windows 8 Windows 8.1 and
we want to be able to make sure that our
products work on those platforms so
that's what this is developed for sure
you can download it and test it out and
play around with it but it's not likely
going to have all the features that
you're looking for as a desktop OS
mm-hmm but you can play with it and he's
gonna give you look not even just for
web developers just for sure the common
user yeah I'm just from do you want to
test the interface maybe you're thinking
about upgrading here's a neck I don't
have Windows 8 maybe I could upgrade
just from teen from this well you're on
windows 7 say yeah and you think or
maybe you're on windows XP and you're
contemplating and so maybe the upgrade
is is something you're considering so
here's a chance that you could try
windows 8 see if you like it and then
make the decision after you've played
around with it as a virtual machine
personally I like the idea of you know
evaluate all your options right these
days there is the linux operating system
which is full force an excellent desktop
operating system give it a chance even
if it's a little intimidating
to change from a Windows platform to
linux it's okay because I mean changing
from Windows XP or Windows 7 to Windows
8 is also a big step it's completely
different interface yeah changing from
Windows to Mac because a lot of people
make that move as well it's a very big
step and you need to basically relearn
your operating system linux as you see
is very easy to use as far as the
interface it makes sense it's it's i
know i'm installing it on one of my
laptops which i may have destroyed um
not by installing linux know that might
have been a drinker um but let's just
say I had a laptop and the keys fell off
i was doing my hair oh and i put the
blow dryer down on my laptop and blow
dryer burnt my keys off 00 at the time
like i like to be handy dandy oh man but
i took a hot glue gun and put my keys
back on the keyboard thinking it would
work but I just ended up gluing my keys
to my keyboard Y Z button just zzzzz
zzzzz and then trying to figure out how
to fix it but it wasn't gonna be fix
this how to get all you've hot glued
your keys down you're gonna they're not
gonna fall off now no they they will
never fall off you'll never lose your
keys but you may need to buy a new
keyboard you just man anyways I thought
just installing it I got to know it
really well and I was running two
different operating systems on my laptop
doing a dual boot yeah yeah that's
another option too and I like that I
thought it was very interesting never
got to continue with it cuz i had to hot
glue instant hot glue incident um but
definitely it was easy to get to know
cool so give it a chance if you're
thinking about making the switch but
this is a great way to be able to test
your website's your web applications
it's modern dot IE check it out and that
and let us know how it goes i'd love to
hear if that's maybe a tip that has
helped you to be able to develop for
another
form so I develop pretty much
exclusively on linux so it really helps
me to be able to test now on the
platform such as Windows without having
to go all out and buy licenses and you
know all that kind of stuff saves me
having to do that saves time and money
sure does all right well it is time for
the news are you ready I am ready I hope
you're ready it's pretty cool Oh what do
you got for us Oh Netflix yes love you
netflix netflix has started testing
ultra high definition video also known
as 4k the technology offers four times
the amount of detail as 1080p and
high-definition content netflix said it
plans to offer the first titles in 4k to
consumers next year that's amazing can
you imagine though the bandwidth
requirements of 4k video I think people
are let's put this into perspective you
think four times the quality and and
it's hard to get your head around that
so I i I'm going to do this I'm going to
take a piece of paper and I'm going to
fold it just into a couple of pieces
here okay this just kind of puts four
times into perspective when it comes to
to video okay so let's pretend this is
1080p okay which is the best HD that you
like to be a good half right so what is
4k versus this so if this is 1080p
because this is folded in four pieces
that is 4k does that put it into a
little bit of perspective for you look
at the difference and that that's
literally the difference of 4k video so
what's going to happen when you know
everybody subscribes and starts using 4k
video i would think that it's going to
use like a hundred mega bits of download
speed and a lot of people like you in
the UK like what kind of speed are you
getting i think that there's about
fifteen percent twenty percent of the
users in the united kingdom who have
those kinds of speeds like fifteen to
twenty percent so people are of course
thinking that oh well Netflix you know
why would why are they doing this
they're exceeding what consumers have as
far as internet but didn't they do this
once before didn't when Netflix first
came out wasn't the whole thing well how
can they stream video online in HD and
yet they did and yet they do and yet
hopefully we're all subscribed to it and
using it I'm i use it I do a huge amount
yeah that's fantastic so if they've done
it once before and they push the
envelope they pushed the codecs and they
pushed Bend with providers Internet
service providers to be able to provide
the speeds that their customers demand
in order to do it then what's to say
they can't do it again with 4k know they
can like I could see they could probably
do it again that's a scary amount of
data it is a scary amount of data but
the quality will be nice let's hope that
you've got unlimited bandwidth folks
let's hope all right I've got one for
you have you used xfce well you might be
using it soon about two years ago or I
guess about a year ago as a matter of
fact debian was considering the same
problem they were saying okay they
weren't sure if they wanted to go with
gnome 3 or xfce as their default desktop
environment xfce of course is a little
bit lighter weight it's a more familiar
interface for people used to the old
window style interface or gnome 2 in a
Debian gift commit post on Saturday our
pardon me on Sunday it was actually
announced that they are again reviewing
xfce as a promising option to replace
gnome 3 in the famous linux distro the
dramatic change is still subject to
evaluation before the next major release
named jesse is finalized so the post
states the evaluation will start around
the point of debconf which is august of
next year if at that point gnome looks
to be a better choice it will go back to
being the default so the question that I
ask is is Debian actually pushing to
switch to xfce because they could
actually be using xfce to leverage to
push gnome 3 2 and
do what we have all wanted them to do
for quite some time and that's bring
back the classic interface and they've
given them quite an ultimatum to well if
you don't give us a good interface we're
going to pull pull out and give it to
xfce so the post goes on to say and I
quote if gnome 3 feels comfortable to
gnome 2 and xfce users that would go a
long way toward switching back to it as
the default unfortunately we need to
wait about 10 months in order to find
out how the gnome developers are going
to reply to this threat of losing their
long-standing relationship with debian
and all of its users but this could mean
some exciting developments for us old
school linux users who love the old
style interface so what do you think I
think that the I think it's a tactic see
seems a little bit like they're saying
ok either give us a better interface
which is old school or we're pulling the
plug I think that's kind of good I think
we could see some really good
improvements in gnome 3 looking at the
chat room a lot of people are getting a
lot of feedback on people are more happy
with classic menus yeah exactly and
that's that's my thinking exactly i call
myself old school but the fact is I just
don't like that everything is now
developed for touchscreens because my
desk has a keyboard and a mouse and a
monitor in front of me that's what i'm
using I'm not getting my screen all
dirty in my office I want to have a
desktop operating system not a tablet
operating system no so give me the
option when i install the OS i should be
able to say do I want the desktop
version or the tablet version don't
force it on me and that's what it wound
to is done that's what debian or not
Debbie and part of me gnome 3 has done
when they removed the fallback mode so
and we also have another question um so
as a newbie de lenox from windows which
distro d recommend for learning that is
a big question I like point Linux right
now I think it's a really great
distribution also Zorin OS is a good
one to get your feet wet because it has
modes that allow you to make it look
like Windows make it look like Mac only
because it makes it more familiar to you
so check out Zorin OS and point linux
alright next news story so a robot has
been developed by japanese scientists
that is so fast it can win the
rock-paper-scissors game against a human
every single time it uses high-speed
recognition and reaction rather than
prediction tech wait well yeah it's
faster than us technically the robot
cheats because it reacts extremely
quickly to what the human hand is doing
rather than making pre-meditated action
as the rural state hmm state I taking
just one millisecond to recognize what
shape the human hand is making it then
chooses a winning move and reacts at
high speed the scientists at University
of Tokyo specialize in a range of
technologies including replicating and
improving upon the human senses using
high-speed intelligent robots isn't that
interesting that kind of puts a little
bit of a perspective on well what's the
point like I mean you've got this thing
that can do rock paper scissors but it
actually observes and responds quicker
than probably we could even perceive one
millisecond it's able to respond to me
going like that or that or that so like
usually I like to play
rock-paper-scissors against people who
just had to slow movements you could
kind of like look and then be like I
know I know you're like a cheetah robot
yeah I would always look and be like
what are they gonna do so I'd win
because I'm a sore loser sometimes okay
get their strategy so I would understand
you know what what they're gonna do next
and I think that by looking at reaction
except an insect of predicting of what
we kind of always do as like human makes
more sense from a robot's perspective
but they are not intelligent than the
way that the human is
I wonder though we've talked about Ford
and the way that they're introducing
cars that will automatically swerve to
avoid obstacles and things in a case of
you know maybe the driver doesn't see
someone walk out in front and the car
will actually move so this kind of
reactive technology could be implemented
into that kind of thing if it's really
bad a safety technology as well and and
you would feel a lot safer knowing that
this thing would have whooped you at
rock paper scissors but what I want to
know is would it cause a rift in the
space-time continuum to put two of these
machines head-to-head what would happen
that so would be cool that's kind of
science I want to see that would
actually be really interesting wouldn't
it they probably both just sit there
going like faking each other out don't
know what to do or just be like me and
wait until the next person moves not
gonna move reactive reactive yeah oh hey
blackberry possibly has made another
foul step their shares are struggling
again BlackBerry's fallen sixteen
percent after it announced that they
abandoned a plan to sell itself to its
biggest shareholder fairfax financial
holdings instead it intends to raise 1
billion dollars for those of you in
pounds that's put 627 million pounds in
fresh financing now chief executive
Thorsten Heins is going to step down and
the former sybase chief executive john
chen is going to serve as interim chief
executive so we'll have to see what
happens there i wonder if the success of
BlackBerry's BBM product on other
platforms has kind of made them think oh
well maybe we do have a following and we
can we can do this guys we can do this
what do you think those are the top
stories that's it
nearly flattened 1080 1080 p there we go
where can we get the full stories Erica
well you guys can get the full stories
at the category 5 / newsroom this week
the category five dot TV news room is
researched by royal Roy w Nash with
contribution by a community of viewers
and if you have any news stories that
you think is worthy of an on-air mention
email newsroom at Catco at category five
dot TV and for the cat category five dot
TV news room I'm Erica lon thanks Erica
this is category 5 technology TV that's
our website category five dot TV thanks
for joining us tonight visit our website
category five dot TV get into the chat
room Erica's going at it like a
berserker over there trying to keep up
with all of your messages nice to see
everybody joining us and let's let's
take some viewer questions Erica if we
could I want to say hi to the Albert
Albuquerque turkey joining us in the
chat room also a gamoto bill 777 I'm
working through it alphabetical like Bob
k 54 you interrupt me whenever you got a
question for me oh yes Linux nice I got
tons a question all right I'm up to see
Dave may do hey Dennis Kelly TN Frank
good guy so how do you robbie and all
i've recently signed up for good yeah
yeah hey tianne Frank yeah man so for
Google+ account so i could use so i
signed up for google plus account so i
could use the VoIP voice the voice over
IP voice telephoning on the internet oh
that's cool and video chat servers that
they offer for free can you talk a
little bit about the difference between
the google voice and the google hangout
versions of calling and maybe talk about
anything else that's new exciting on
google+ thanks for keeping up the great
work um your pal Darryl AKA TN Frank
cheers t Anne Frank or Tennessee Frank I
guess it is now that's a pretty fast
question I mean what's a google plus
they're constantly changing things
they're always breaking things it's
always under betta and you know you're
always having to learn the interface
over again because they keep changing
things that's an evolving system and
that's how Google works until they've
got something that's really really
awesome and Google+ is cool as far as
google plus vs google hangouts or per me
google voice vs google hangouts google
voice think of that as like skype so
you're making calls and you're able to
talk to mom and dad when you're away at
school and it's a free call and that's
cool kind of private as far as that goes
google hangouts on the other hand it's
what you would expect from a hangout
what what do you do when you call up
your friends they want to hang out you
go to you know the pub or whatever and
there's a bunch of other people there
and you're sitting there and you're
having a chat and other people are over
here and yeah it's not private at all
know everybody can hear what you're
talking about so hangout is pretty neat
and it's kind of revolutionary because
what was the downfall of skype as far as
all of the users wanted this one feature
it was the ability to have group
conversations now you can do it with
audio but you can't do it video so along
comes google hangouts and hangouts on
air and i'll tell you a little bit about
that as well hangouts allows you to in a
group actually hangout chat and have
everybody come up on the screen and it's
intelligent in such a way that if I
start talking which is known to happen
all of a sudden my face comes up on the
screen and then if Erica on her webcam
halfway across the world starts talking
all of a sudden her webcam comes up on
the screen so that's pretty cool
hangouts on air on the other hand is
also interconnected with YouTube so now
you've got not just the people with
webcams who can talk to each other and
hang out but you've also got on air
portion which is people being able to
watch the hangout on YouTube live and
that means they are unable to interact
as far as bringing up their webcam and
chatting with you but they can watch
what's going on in the actual hangout
itself so that's kind of cool Google is
evolving G+ though and it's always
getting better and better try to keep up
a lot of fun to learn the platform and
of course we have our Google+ profile at
cap 5tb
gplus that's actually spelt out G PL us
thanks for the question we have another
question from Carl Cunningham hey Carl
um so he's saying that I carry a flash
drive back and forth between home and
work and sometimes put sensitive files
on it of course in lenox what method
would you recommend to encrypt the file
system or the individual files so that I
can be accessed in case I lose it yeah
well truecrypt seems like the obvious
choice but I'm going to show you a tool
that is part of your Linux operating
system you can install it with synaptic
package manager if you're on a debian
based system we're using apt-get as the
backend synaptic package manager to
install I'll just bring that up this is
how easy it is to install stuff on
Lennox is great there's a couple of lil
packages here that I'm going to need for
for you Carl first of all we're going to
go now I'm on mate which is a gnome to
fork but I'm going to see if we can get
gnome disk utility to work even though
I'm on mate and not on gnome okay there
we go so no misc utility exists in my
repository that's good Mark for Mark the
changes yeah ok now that's going to give
us you know the classic gnome disk
utility which allows us to format disks
create software raid arrays things like
that really really great utility you
should have it anyways I'm not sure why
I don't have it installed maybe just I
deployed the system and never thought of
it so that's cool gnome disk utility got
it now next one we want because you're
specifically asking for encryption we're
going to look for crypt set up there it
is let's install that and that's
actually going to give encryption
features to the gnome disk utility and
we're going to mark that and we're going
to apply that's going to download
everything that we need for those two
utilities through the web connection I
don't have to use any disks that's
what's beautiful about linux and and the
way that you know i don't have to go out
onto websites and try to find all these
programs to install and
pile them and get them installed onto my
system no I just simply that's it I just
use synaptic and it installs it there
goes almost there now I don't have a
flash drive connected to my computer so
I can actually show you the process of
doing it with a flash drive but I'm
going to bring up the application all
the same and we'll see if if we can get
there you're going to find the the
option to encrypt now that I've
installed Crips set up as well as gnome
disk utility in the format option so
what you would do is backup the files on
your flash drive to your hard drive or
whatever then format using the gnome
disk utility and check off the box for
pardon me for encryption it'll ask you
for the password nice and simple so just
utility where are you I don't think
that's the command to run it see if we
can find it on the menus if it's given
it to us there's gparted no disk utility
where are ya where are ya ah ok well i
know that i've installed it so let's do
a quick search i'm going to do a quick
search to see what the executive liz
unless one of you in the chat room knows
what the executive Liz for that because
I don't see it having been added to my
menu but we can run it with alt f2 Disk
Utility command how's that how to get it
from a terminal that works
how in cest of course I should not know
that yeah okay so you're gonna have to
run it as a superuser do ah how did I
not know that off the top of my head
okay so we're gonna go gk pseudo and
then the command apparently is PA el IM
p.s e st let's try it yes we got it of
course yeah okay so if I were to format
a dress so if I brought up a drive and
clicked on format over on the right-hand
side you'll see now I've got encrypt
underlying device how cool is that so it
will actually encrypt the volume so that
when you have it you know in transit you
don't have to worry about the files it's
protected by a key as soon as I click
that and hit format it's going to ask me
for the key that I want to enter it's a
good strong password we've learned about
how to create those on the show and then
you can go from there keep in mind now
you're gonna have to install these
packages on both computers where you're
going where you're where you're coming
to and you're going to have to use this
utility in order to mount and unmount
the device because it's encrypted so
with that device now you're going to
have to actually use the mount features
of this particular application gnome
disk utility so you my friend are going
to have to memorize the command or
create a shortcut how's that we've got
time for maybe one more question thanks
for the question Carl we have a question
from Jeff hey Jeff so hey I have
finalized a mini DVD nice and I was
wondering how to use the DD command to
save my hard drive so I could take the
media on the disc and burn it to regular
sized DVD ok thanks yeah it's actually
support me surprisingly Oh surprisingly
easy I'm going to go into terminal I
don't have a mini DVD to test with but I
can always just show you so what we need
to do is determine
the location of the disc itself the way
that you can do that is mount it in your
system so basically what i mean by that
is put it in put it in the drive your
computer is going to recognize that it's
a DVD it's going to probably launch its
going to start playing or it might just
bring up a you know the computer window
where you can browse the files either
way it's now mounted so now we can use
the mount command to find out well
what's the actual location of that so we
go sudo mount and that tells me all of
my file systems and I can see that okay
well I'm going to have a particular
device that is you know here's my hard
drive for example see that's mounted on
/ so once you know the device right so
the first part this is the device itself
this is the mount point so you'll know
that it's like / media / DVD or
something so then you copy this whole
line here and that's the device itself
and I'm just I don't have a DVD in there
so I can copy my hard drive anyways and
I would go DD i F equals that stands for
in file or input file and then paste my
device and that's with the full path so
/ dev / this whatever it happens to be
and then you guessed it Oh f4 outfile
equals and wherever you want to put that
so let's say we want to put it on tilde
which is your home folder so slash home
slash Robbie for example / desktop with
a capital D / or if I just want to put
in the current folder Oh f4 outfile
equals you know my DVD don't put any
spaces dot is oh that's going to create
an iso file which is now an image of a
DVD so you can take that you can open it
with bracero you can burn it on any
computer that has a disc burning
software and you can burn it to a
standard size DVD no problem you can
also share the iso file put it on your
set-top box you'll be able to watch no
problem just like that so there you have
it thanks for the question I think
that's all the time that we have if you
can believe well that's it wow there's
your questions folks and there's still
tons more while I continued on next week
absolutely well we would like to say
hello to all of our viewers on YouTube
bliptv micro internet first run TV and
Roku annex awesome hey if you like the
nettalk duo I'm talking free phone calls
anywhere in Canada to Canada or the USA
so you get one of these and you can call
anywhere in Canada or us no charge get
two of these send one of them overseas
to the UK or netherlands or wherever you
want to go let's say we send it to a
friend in Germany now we can call each
other absolutely free really because we
both have one so you activated in Canada
or the US and now we can communicate if
you send it over and they can plug it
into their internet we've got voice over
IP phone with a real handset phone and
we can call anywhere no more calling cuz
ya know and it's free okay so we've got
these with three months of free long
distance service all you have to do is
go to cap five dot TV / studio and make
a contribution with that particular perk
because when you contribute a category 5
TV we're actually giving you stuff as
well and that's one of the perks you'll
be able to receive three months of free
service with a net talk to out to device
you're going to have this so then after
the three months are over oh well it's
going to cost a thousand bucks no only
three dollars and thirty-five cents per
month for unlimited long distance that's
like a text on a calling card it's like
a cup of coffee on a month and you've
got unlimited calling how do you like
that so cat5 TV / studio we've got some
amazing perks there from some of our
friends and partners and we'd encourage
you to please support category 5 TV and
it's really really exciting time so
thanks for joining us tonight Erica a
nice to see you as always it's good to
see you guys and have a good night Robby
have a good night everyone take care of
buddy see you next week we hope you
enjoyed the show category 5 TV
broadcasts
from Barrie Ontario Canada every tuesday
at seven p.m. eastern if you're watching
this on demand or through cable TV check
out the local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
