[Music]
tonight we are joined by dawn Duncan he
is a security engineer with new data
security dawn it is such a pleasure to
have you here thanks for joining us
tonight Thank You Don you have a really
firm grasp on a new ish technology
something that we're really starting to
see here in Canada called open banking
can you explain a little bit for us
about what open banking is open banking
general sense and it's being driven
actually out of the Europe in the UK
really allows banks to open up their
financial institutions so that those
services can be consumed and exposed to
consumers so that other banking services
can be provided by other parties so is
this like an API kind of idea are we
looking at an application programming
interface sir exactly and that's that's
what the discussion is and banks are
gonna be publishing those api's for
their individual institutions and the
exciting thing about this is that
there's lots pop to change because again
having the ability for those large banks
to engage with other parties means that
it will be interesting to see what
service is kind of that's cool
now you mentioned European banks how do
banks here in Canada you know how do we
fall behind how do we differ from banks
around the world as far as you know what
services are being offered and how does
open banking change things for us here
in Canada well in Canada I think we do a
pretty good job and when I say say we
the existing banks are very responsive
to their existing consumers when you
look at the mobile and web applications
ability the way you have the needs to
pay what's happening in the UK and
Europe is by making this a regulation
that is they're essentially sending the
standard and that standard everybody's
really looking to to say okay how can we
take that standard and use it
backyard okay is so open banking so
understanding a little bit about this is
and I'm sorry this is like an API that
allows other software developers to
connect into banking infrastructure how
is that going to be like I think about
the word open and I immediately start
thinking about open source Linux and the
GNU image manipulation program we talked
a lot about open source alternatives
here on the show banking as as far as
the infrastructure goes has
traditionally been a very closed thing
as far as us consumers are concerned how
does open banking relate to that kind of
model of openness if you will sure I
think not so much on the technology
level but again to your point about the
api's open means accessible so okay is
where a bank was really confined entity
by having those api's they have the
ability to provide services through
those api's and be now become more
accessible and that leads to exciting
services that can be offered
it sounds cool so I know I do a lot of
online sales I do a lot of e-commerce I
have my online shops where I sell a lot
of product obviously this is going to
impact those who use like the bank's
terminals and things like that but is
this going to help someone like myself
with my payment processing with being
able to access or process data in a
different way transaction wise I mean
exactly and that's really I think the
key advantage is really to the consumers
and how can you streamline that whole
customer experience to remove friction
and when I say friction maybe some of
those things that you've had to go
through just to do a simple task online
the nice thing about those API is that
you know instead of jumping around from
one interface to another interface you
can now look at it as maybe potential to
have a one UI where you know what you
can do all your banking and in the
backend it allows all those things to
transpire in the back
and seamless to you without having to do
maybe the things that are possibly
manual right you know okay and I think
that's really the key thing is that look
at it's really about the customer
experience how you streamlining that
customer experience but at the same time
to do it in such a way that it's a
secure experience so from a banking
perspective it's that experience from
the transaction from the store from the
online e-commerce and the consumer how
connected I mean open platforms can be
you know one bank can use the open
platform for their own purposes are
these interconnected like as this API
interconnected between different banks
the API is as far as I know are being
exposed by the individual banks in terms
of access to them where I think you're
gonna start seeing this concept as
aggregation is where you have those
third parties that are gonna be able to
come in and create applications that tie
all this together
and that's the exciting part of it you
can look at this is you know how do I
take those building blocks those api's
and how can I take something that I can
build so that that user experience
whether it's on the web or on my mobile
application allows me to do all these
things meanwhile in the background I'm
engaging with all these financial
institutions in the backend
are you guys getting getting this yeah I
think so yeah it's it's a whole new
concept on how to deal with the banks
and to wrap my head around and I'm going
how is this gonna work here in Canada
yes the services that are offered in
open banking are they the same that are
offered in in regular I think that's
gonna be really the first step is how
can you take existing banking services
and expose those using the API and then
what you're you're probably gonna see is
over an evolution of time as those api's
are going to develop and what's
especially interesting especially being
in Canada and seeing some of the things
that are happening up here the exciting
thing is a lot of the concepts I think
you've seen Silicon Valley in the u.s.
you're now seeing being used up in the
banking community up
in terms of innovation and that's what
you're gonna start seeing is a
groundswell of innovation once a lot of
the stuff is been finalized in terms of
legislation exalt give everybody the
idea as to what can be done and how to
use that how to use that in the way that
it benefits consumers okay so with with
like private banking you have like the
the insurance on your actual accounts
right for the city I just want it yeah I
just wanted to touch on this because
we've had the discussion recently Don
with a lot of the the data theft that
goes on and you know we talked about
just recently how insurance covers some
of that like if someone got ahold of our
credit card is that right exactly so is
it the same sort of security that you
have an open banking as you would and
and I think that's that's what's gonna
happen in Canada is that when you look
at things such as the Deposit Insurance
the CDI C which is the Deposit Insurance
in Canada where if you have a banking
account with X amount of dollars in it
how is that going to work in terms of
protecting those deposits and and I
think that's what you're gonna see is
you're gonna see existing insurance in
existing financial infrastructure or a
regulation evolved to get to a point
where it's gonna take in those those
concepts of open banking so then you
don't have the fear that if something
does happen that your deposits or what's
in your accounts can be at risk okay one
of the things that really troubles me
when I go to the bank I know it's a
silly thing and maybe this is just me
being picky but I have a lot of bank
cards I've got my visa I've got like a
portfolio of cards that I here's my
business banking card here's my debit
card
Kennon API so understand for those
viewers who aren't familiar with an API
this is an application programming
interface that securely allows multiple
interfaces to communicate and share
transaction information user information
those kind of things can this be used
for say consolidation of cards and
consolidation of services and things
like that exactly and I think that's to
your point
when I look at my wallet I have a big
wad of plastic still even though I have
mobile applications and that's where
there are market opportunities that lead
and that's where it's exciting to be in
banking world especially in Canada
exciting to see a lot of these smaller
companies in this startup mentality
happening up in the Toronto and Canadian
areas has the falton areas and seeing
you know how can we take those api's
build something with it and then present
it in the form of an application where I
can have this consolidate you and
essentially get rid of maybe that
plastic that I have in my wallet okay
would it matter
like internationally could you could you
have American a cancer can you load up
in Canada because we're kind of talking
specifically about Canada yeah but what
about international is that I think
that's I think that's the what's gonna
end up happening especially over time is
that as there are systems developed in
the respective countries whether it's in
EU or if there's discussion about it in
the US and regards to their version of
open banking world can are open banking
each is gonna be doing its whole thing
for its respective consumer area and
then I I wouldn't surprise me if at some
point they're all going to join together
in some form so that to your point okay
it's just gonna be a seamless
interaction as I if I happen to be a
Buffalo New York and then I top up there
and then I come across the border and I
go to Niger Falls Ontario then you know
what it's just a seamless process I
don't have to worry what side of the
border a month
yeah and that raises an interesting
point or an interesting concern in that
what happens if somebody gets a hold of
the API and is able to maybe
man-in-the-middle attack and find the
keys and then be able to to generate
transactions that are false and then
this would happen on a grand scale in a
very very small amount of time so if
that happened across the border to
accounts that are up here in Canada you
mentioned the CD I see the insurance
that would protect us but what what
happens in a case like that and is that
a real concern
well the technology exists to address
that when I'm with for instance new data
with security one of the key things that
we do and where as an organization is
really understanding who the users
behind the device so to your point we
would be able identify is that form of
automation or is it a real human user
behind the device who's connecting via
the API right the other two is that
you're also gonna see tokenization so
even though those APRs are accessible or
called open they're not necessarily
visible to all parties and so there's
gonna be a framework and from the
security perspective to address exactly
your concern or the topic you mentioned
about automation could somebody say for
instance impersonate myself and try to
connect using this API there is the
ability leverage other technologies to
secure that right and Jeff is whispering
in my ear here that you know what if
it's not a person impersonating me right
so I'm starting to think ok if you have
this open accessibility what about the
implications of maybe AI I mean we're
seeing it now where you're there's an AI
all over the internet and sometimes you
can't tell them it's a computer you're
talking to it's you know because AI is
getting so sophisticated and how does
that play into it from a security
standpoint but on the flip side how like
I guess essentially the sky's the limit
on how a I could impact this kind of
open banking to say hey look here's all
of my bank accounts here's everything
about me financially I want to be
debt-free in five years go figure it out
and next thing you know the computers
running all these transactions for you
to allow you to be debt-free in a
certain amount of time it almost takes
the the planning out of it
to give you the best leg up financially
well and to your point especially on the
security side and that's one of the
things we do new data is this concept of
passive biometric behavior so as an
example where you have physical
biometrics where you have thumbprint or
you have an IR scan or
some type of physical attribute that
identifies uses an individual one of the
things that we do new data security is
we use this concept of taking the way
you interact with the device very much
like your handwriting there are certain
attributes you have when you interact
with the device that can be attributed
to you as an individual that whether I'm
going from an iOS device to an Android
device to a desktop there there are
attributes that carry from you carry
with you
and that concept is a concept that we
can take and can actually identify or
evaluate the risk of to your point could
it be automation maybe in the form of AI
or something or is it an actual real
human being based on the way they've
engaged before in the past with that API
so there's a lot of things checks and
balances that from a technology
perspective that exists that can I think
address some of the concerns were out
there in the security side we're
speaking with Don Duncan Don is a
security engineer with new data security
Don this is you know kind of often left
field but is there any kind of this
seems like the technology technological
evolution of banking essentially and
we're becoming more progressively online
and you know everything is app driven
and and driven by our computer systems
and the Internet is there any kind of
integration that is you know foreseeable
with regards to cryptocurrency which
we're hearing a lot about and in that to
the point I think a lot of things are
happening at the same time so when you
look at the open banking concept
cryptocurrency whether it's Bitcoin or
even right now decaying government the
bank canada has been looking at
cryptocurrency in its really long guards
- the ability for payments I think that
exactly will be involved as part of that
move towards open banking okay therefore
I think what the world is wondering
right now is will it support whopper
that's really what it boils down to you
know give me a free whopper here come on
guys
okay well that's that's really
interesting as far as you know that how
things are going to be evolving over the
next little while can you give us some
examples of how this is going to benefit
say myself as a consumer maybe a small
business owner how is this going to to
impact us in a positive way sure I think
it's really easy to use so looking at
how can I get a financial if I was one
or financial snapshot of taking all my
connection points with my banking
institutions bringing it in and
providing a view of that at one point in
time being we'll do an analysis and
being able to also use that to make
decisions in regards to from a financial
perspective instead of me having to go
out to one side at a time to do that I
can now get that information and a
consolidated view be able to make
decisions quarterly but then on the
other side of the two I have the ability
to act immediately versus before just
because I'm trying to make that decision
I don't have that information that
decision probably would've been
prolonged and your time okay
now I'm one question I have regarding
the data collection end of it if you
open up if you have open banking and
you've got somebody who say creates an
app is like hey this is the best open
banking app you're ever gonna have it
consolidates everything what's the
possibility or the protection airy piece
to ensure that your personal financial
information on a grand scale isn't being
used for mining your data for marketing
purposes I mean like I think of you know
everybody's pushing back against the you
know 53,000 categories that Facebook
tracks you could this open the door to
the same deal with banking to say hey
look here's what you've got for your
bank accounts this is all the data we've
got on you here's how you spend it so
we're gonna target you in this way is
there a way to protect against that in
this type of scenario there is and and
that I think is one of the things that's
happening especially in the EU
and the UK is identifying what is of
that information is something that can
be shared of what is private that can't
be shared and how can it be used in such
a way that is not gonna come back to be
used against you in some shape or form
and that is the determination as to what
that would look like how that
information is exposed and how can it be
consumed and ultimately in the end
ensuring that you are as a consumer
having what you need to make those
decisions but not exposing or
sacrificing anything as a result of
being right okay question from the chat
room the foo has asked if banking which
it should supports the the smaller guys
the bigger guys like the the banks
they'll fight against something like
open banking will they not because now
all of a sudden the powers in the open
banking no I I think the with the
banking industry and especially with
what I've seen for instance there was a
financial conference that I attended a
Canadian financial conference at the end
of last year and I was actually quite
surprised about
there's representation from a large
number of banks but at the same time to
you there's a lot of smaller financial
organizations I've never even heard of
before that we're doing some exciting
things and I think there is that always
that concern is that is it is something
new like this when I rode something from
a business perspective I think with the
Canadian banks the Canadian banks
realize you know what there's
opportunities here with these small or
firms who have the ability to pilot and
the can is a really unique country
because you can pilot something here use
it almost as a beta test case see how it
tests here and then use as a mechanism
to see how it translates to other parts
of the world no I'm thinking of the
practicality of this you know it's great
to have all the information on a phone
with through you know or your computer
in one location but what about if you're
going out to say restaurant a lot of
places how you know you
use your phone for paying it's like you
know there's the Apple pay there's the
Google pay all that kind of stuff would
there be the possibility of having this
type of technology integrate with
point-of-sale systems so that you would
just simply wave your phone or even you
know open up your banking app and just
hit the supplier and boom your payment's
taken care of and there's no transaction
so to speak is that possible with this
kind of system um I think there's
definitely the possibility to to your
point in regards to like in Canada we
already have that to an extent to
interact and other types of payment and
systems the I think the way other types
of payment methods are definitely
possible and definitely POS is really
something like for instance you
mentioned a restaurant even in a
situation of where maybe I've gone
online and I've ordered takeout and
somebody's delivering something and they
have the the an terminal you know what
is their alternative methods of payment
that I can be using as means to do that
and I think that definitely Google
doctor into the whole API open API
conversation especially currency and
everything else I think it's gonna boil
down to as well the developers of the
particular point-of-sale application
they you know how how are they going to
interconnect this with the new API so
we're speaking with Don Duncan from new
data security we're speaking about open
banking here in Canada now dawn we have
a lot of viewers around the world
in particular in the United States is
this something that we're seeing kind of
grow on a global scale or is this
specific to Europe and Canada how how
wide scale is this it's it's it's wide
scale I think with what's happening in
Europe and the UK everybody's looking at
that because they know it's gonna come
and it's just a question of how are they
gonna go about it in their own area or
their own regions or locales and looking
at what do they have in place right now
what do they need to bring it up to that
level and also looking
the lessons are being learned from
overseas in Europe in the UK to
understand okay what can we learn from
them and then take that and start
building not just the technology but
also the legislation all the regulation
is that so it will form appropriate so
much to think about and stuff and I
would never have even thought oh yeah
right the legislation that's important
as well so just kind of wrapping up our
discussion here Don and I appreciate
your time and coming on the show where
is this at here in Canada as far as are
we like a year away from this and and if
so where is the security falling in line
with that are we able to keep up with
with the evolution of open banking from
a security aspect we are and I the
technology exists right now without even
going into the open API discussion just
looking at automation being able to
protect consumers as they're connecting
and that prospect of impersonation the
technology exists already to to address
that to protect consumers and catch the
the fraudsters who are connecting right
so that does exist already and it's just
impact app sorry we're just breaking up
there just a little bit Don I'll just
get you to repeat the last last thing
that you said there that's okay so
taking really that that concerted effort
and really standardizing and I think
that's really what legislation and
regulation will do is standardize a lot
of these things that everybody's
thinking about but how does how do we
get everybody to their at the same point
because of how far off are we here in
Canada from seeing this implemented I
understand that it's it's here it's
ready but when is my back gonna start
offering this to the ecommerce provider
and the the local the local pub I think
it's gonna be fairly soon
legislation wise I again it's it's hard
for men yeah I'd be guessing but I would
say definitely we're gonna see there's
already rumblings I would say something
tangible maybe a year two years
definitely
awesome Don thank you so much for your
time please do check out new data
security comm find out more about what
it is that they're doing and Don I
appreciate your time thank you have a
great night
[Applause]
