hey everyone and welcome to new every
day my name is Kari and my name is Jen
and on today's show we're in part three
of the winds of change with the question
of well how do I actually walk through
change and so the question is has God
ever given you a mentor to help you walk
through the change that he's brought to
your life so think about that we will be
right back
[Music]
hi and welcome back to new every day
thank you for tuning in and Jen the past
two weeks we've been talking about the
winds of change and how God uses Holy
Spirit to bring about change in people's
lives and in particular we looked at
Acts chapter 11 where Peter saw the
vision of the men coming from Joppa he
went to Cornelius house the Gentiles
received the holy spirit yep
and eternal life through Jesus Christ
and became Christians and then Peter had
to be that change agent yes and the
catalyst in the church to say hey this
is from God we need to accept the
Gentiles it's all cool yes and so
there's actually a transition now in
chapter 11
and we switched from Peter being the
main person to Barnabas and Saul being
the main people and yet it's still about
the winds of change and the Holy Spirit
going before and and causing the
Gentiles to turn to Christ and so when
we ask the question like you know how do
you walk through change and very often
God will give you someone to help you
walk through that change and so in this
situation as Carrie reads it we want you
to listen for who is the mentor that God
brings along okay so Acts chapter 11
verse 19 now those who were scattered
after the persecution that arose over
Stephen traveled as far as Phoenicia
Cyprus and Antioch preaching the word to
no one but the Jews only but some of
them were men from cyprus and cyrene who
when they had come to antioch spoke to
the Helenus preaching the lord jesus and
the hand of the lord was with them and a
great number believed and turned to the
Lord men news of these things came to
the ears of the church in Jerusalem and
they sent out barnabas to go as far as
antioch when he came and had seen the
grace of God he was glad and encouraged
them and encouraged them all that with
purpose of heart they should continue
with the Lord for he was a good man full
of the Holy Spirit and
Phee and agreed many people were added
to the Lord then Barnabas departed for
Tarsus to seek Saul and when he had
found him he brought him to Antioch so
it was that for a whole year they
assembled with the church and taught a
great many people and the disciples were
first called Christians in Antioch the
question was ok who were the mentors
because I originally said mentor but I
think there was two mentors for two
different reasons which is interesting
because sometimes God brings multiple
people along to help us through change
so the first mentor was Barnabas yes
which is called son he was called son of
encouragement yes which I really like
that they sent the son of encouragement
because it says that the church was
scattered over the persecution of
Stephen so there was a it was a
tumultuous time for the early church yes
with you know maybe there was some fear
associated there so to send the son of
encouragement to be like hey I'm gonna
go check this out it was good he's not
gonna break the be a heavy hand I know
and it's interesting so this new work is
happening in a greek-speaking City
they're Greeks and the news comes back
to Jerusalem and Jerusalem having
already gone through this with Peter are
like ok they already were ready they
were ready to receive it obviously
Barnabas had been there yeah to receive
this news as well that this is ok that
this is a god thing yeah so being a son
of encouragement he can go there and say
yes you really have received the Holy
Spirit like and welcome and welcome them
into the family yeah so it's your are
you are right isn't that interesting
that that was the first person they sent
was Barnabas to encourage them to say
you know welcome we we welcomed you into
our family to encourage them in the
faith to - you know lovingly come
alongside yeah and often you know we
need those mentors in our lives of those
people that just say well duh yeah I
cheer you everybody needs a cheerleader
yes who I wonder if you just want to
stop and think who has been that in your
life in certain ways
whether it's been a coach growing up or
who may be in the church now is that
that mentor for you that it that voice
of encouragement and I think sometimes
mentors play a different role and that
they can be a heavy hand and say what
are you doing and holds you accountable
if you're starting to stray off but that
role of encouragement I think is so
important Jen to say the words that need
to be said to build up your spirit to
really get you going off on the right
foot yeah and and you're right mentors
have various roles in our life and so in
this particular case he comes to a firm
yes you have experienced the Holy Spirit
cuz he was sent to check it out so he's
acted out so he is affirming and he's
encouraging them in the faith in and
encouraging we're making a guess here
because we're based on how Barnabas has
lived his life to this point he has been
a source of encouragement he has been a
godly man full of faith and the Holy
Spirit and it says he was glad and
encouraged them all that with purpose of
heart they should continue with the Lord
yes so there he is just encouraging them
in the faith and very often that's you
know the role of older people in the
church people who have been in the faith
a long time it's just keep going yeah
keep going in because you might be
thinking well I'm not really a change
agent but you as an as a person who's
been in the faith for a long time can
actually come alongside newer people and
saying keep going or like encourage them
and and you actually become people who
speak truth into other's lives because
of the way you go about doing it yeah so
you might not be the teacher the the
convict er but through the grace of God
you are encouraging that change to keep
going yeah and I just want to speak a
word to older adults who may be
listening mm-hmm so maybe your I don't
want to give an age to old older older
than me older to the people that you
might be talking to there you go it's
all relative as a teenager can be a
mentor to like four and five year old
absolutely that I all just want to say
to you it's not too late and your time
hasn't passed yes and you
can still help bring about remarkable
change in someone's life by your way of
being and spending time with them and
just looking back on my life I know I've
spoken about my mentor Hannah before who
really took me under her wing in high
school and through University and every
I would come to her with in my mind
seemingly big problems and she had life
experience to say this is not a big deal
but she also had wisdom from spending so
much time in the word yeah with the Lord
to say no God still has a purpose don't
worry about it I remember I was getting
frustrated about I had started some like
s like a small group in high school and
I was like conflicted about who was
coming and having like friend drama and
all of these things and I was like oh is
it big is this not working out because I
did a B and C and Hannah was able to say
take a step back like you're doing okay
let's pray about it and it was such a
breath of fresh air at that point that
she could she had that perspective and
the wisdom just to say you know pray
about it like God loves you and he's
it's okay yeah she was a daughter of
encouragement totally to to carry in
that point and so often when we are
adopting change and something is needing
to be changed God will bring along the
encouragement keep going you're doing
well like just keep it up so we're gonna
look at a different type of Mentor right
after the break
so we'll be back
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial up audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category-five TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching hey welcome
back thanks for staying with us thank
you for all of our partners who make
this show possible go to our website new
every day TV click on our partners tab
see how you can support us we really
would appreciate your support this is
this show under the umbrella of category
5 network is supported by viewers like
you
we do not get paid we do this because we
really enjoy it and we value talking
about what's in here and how it applies
to the rest of our lives and yes and
we're so grateful for the support of
category 5 and Robbie Ferguson and the
team who helped make this happen so
thank you thank you so much for watching
gen where we at so we left first part of
the show looked at a type of mentor
who's really encouraging and like keep
it up like keep going you're doing well
right so Barnabas sent from Jerusalem so
Jerusalem was affirming the change that
was happening outside of the Jewish
faith with regards to Christianity so
they sent Barnabas but what's
interesting is Barnabas realized that
they needed more and isn't that just
really cool because he doesn't stay in
the sense of well I have everything that
you need to make these changes he
realizes that he needs another mentor
another leader another teacher to come
in and actually teach them what they
need to know so often when change
happens you need multiple people in your
life you need the encourage or
keep it going right you need that person
but you also need someone to walk you
through the changes to teach you yeah
what those changes need and and in verse
25 it says then Barnabas went to Tarsus
to look for Saul and when he found him
he brought him to Antioch so for a whole
year Barnabas and Saul met with the
church and taught great numbers of
people and disciples were called
Christians first at Antioch and so he
realized that he needed Saul to do the
teaching yeah because Saul had been
trained like he had an apologetics mind
he could talk to the Greeks and make the
connections between the Jewish faith and
and teach them why they needed to
believe like all of these reasons why
you know Jesus was real like he had that
and so Barnabas recognized that he
actually needed Saul to come in to
complete the teaching that these new
believers needed yeah so like that's
realizing like being in this position I
when I was first hired they said well
you need to get a mentor I said sure no
problem so for the first year I I had
someone as my mentor who specifically
taught me about leap being a lead pastor
what does that look like how do I do
personnel how do I like the nitty-gritty
the administration thing oh yes
and then so that last thing is for thank
you for a period of time and then I'm
like okay well I need to continue to
find measure so this year specifically
for this period of time I have a mentor
teaching me about discipleship in small
groups and another mentor who is
teaching me about local mission and what
does it mean both missional and so it's
really important that even you know
because you might be thinking well I
don't need a teacher I don't need to
learn I don't need a mentor to walk me
through this and it's like oh like even
step back like Lord where are some areas
in my life that you want me to grow and
then would you provide someone to speak
into my life someone I can have
conversations with for the specific
purpose of learning so I can grow yeah
so I can be
an influencer in this area and that if
you are a mom or a dad who's at home and
you're thinking well really no like call
up someone who is just a little bit
further down the road and say can you
teach me what you know how to be a mom
or a dad to a toddler like that was
totally different and and be open to
those conversations and being
intentional yeah about that to make the
change like and that's so important as
we talked about the winds of change we
need to be willing to to be intentional
yeah about making the change happen so
we can be hearing you know and Barnabas
was realizing this they're willing to
hear it but now they mean they're
willing so we need someone to teach them
more yeah and then they stuck with them
the mentor stuck with them for about a
year and really when I look at you know
mentoring someone or someone mentoring
me I look about you know that nine month
to a 12 month period of receiving and
being intentional about growing in that
area yeah that's important and if you if
you you know step out of like spiritual
discussion even talk about in like the
day-to-day there's something called
deliberate practice where people move
from novice in a certain area whether
it's like a profession or musician yes
and they move to expertise deliberate
practice only happens when you have an
expert who's giving you formative
feedback so they're looking at what's
going on and then there's this
relationship where they can say no you
need to tweak this now you need to
change that and without without someone
else who has wisdom and insights peeking
into your life you can't actually move
past a certain point whether that's in
like your spiritual life or in your
professional life or in relationships I
think that's really important and you
know the science of teaching and
learning with would support that that we
need that deliberate practice and then
then we come back to the very beginning
what kind of change person are you
because like if you're if you have the
mentorship set up are you willing to
receive what they are saying like you
said that changing the tweaking and how
do you receive those changes so it's
like I said
you start the process all over again and
that's one of the things like we're not
called just to be the exact same all the
way through life we are called to be
holy because I am holy that's what God
says and that means this continual
change that needs to take place so we
you know even though I'm a lagger when
it comes to being changed alright
the majority of time I tend to take a
long time to change I had to be willing
if I really want to see growth in my own
life I need to be willing to receive and
to change to have mentor speak into my
life to vet it through the Holy Spirit
and then to have the courage to go in
that direction and it's just this cycle
that happens again and again and again
but we do this because you want anything
you know what's the purpose of change
the purpose of change is actually so
that we can be sanctified by the power
of the Holy Spirit to be more like Jesus
so more people come to know him and that
is the power of the Holy Spirit in us
yes
so are we willing to actually show that
the Holy Spirit is alive and well in us
by being willing to be changed that is a
great question and I think God can bring
us to that place yes so we pray for us
John sure so Holy Spirit thank you that
you are the wind of change and we ask in
your name that you would help us to be
willing to change and then to be change
agents and then to sit under mentorship
and then to be willing to change again
Lord we need your help in all areas to
be the people you have called us to be
we don't want to change just because you
know change is good we want to change
because you are orchestrating it so hard
be with our viewers today help them to
respond to your spirit in their lives
and the changes they need to make
because they want to be closer to you we
pray this in your name
oh man thank you so much for tuning in
order to see you same time same place
next week on you every day see you later
thank you thank you catch an new episode
of new every day
every Friday morning and new every day
dot TV
we're also on Kody Roku Plex YouTube and
Facebook or if you're in Southern
California tune in every Sunday morning
at 6:30 Pacific on channel 33 television
for the high desert
