there was a massive massive WordPress
exploit over the past couple of weeks
we're talking in I lost count at about a
half a million websites that had been
compromised and at that point yeah it is
I mean crazy but ok so why does
WordPress get exploited if you have a
wordpress site if you have a wordpress
blog a lot of companies have convinced
themselves as they need to have a
wordpress website and part of that is
because it's cheap to the to deploy so a
company will say oh yeah we can build
you a web site for only 800 bucks or
only 1,400 bucks or you know oh well
that's a lot better than the guy who's
building a custom website for 4,000 you
know right so if if they can deploy
WordPress and everything is all built in
anyways and so it's really really cheap
to get it up and running it's free
software that's all fine and good it's
excellent excellent software however now
that they've got the three hundred
dollar website it's up and running
where's making sales and who's
maintaining it who's making sure that
all of the latest security patches are
installed I hope that you're with a
managed wordpress hosting service but if
you're not it falls behind as it falls
behind these hackers and malicious users
discover ways to break into websites
WordPress website right every single
week in the news there's always a story
about some security threat or flaw or
some hacker getting in and doing
something this is just another big one
just another one where you think it's
not going to happen to me yeah right so
why does it happen to churches and
government offices and individual
people's blogs like why is it that you
know if I wanted to start my own blog
just to talk about you know my dog right
like my I'm going to get I'm going to
get compromised and it happens we'll we
fall into thinking nobody's going to
attack my website because I'm just me
I'm just talking about i'm blogging
about my dog nobody's going to hack me
well the fact is is that like phishing
scams like like ransomware
malware and things like that it's not
targeted and the moment that we realize
that these are not targeted attacks then
we all of a sudden clue into the fact
that we're vulnerable because these
scripts these robots basically will call
them they're called BOTS but they're
basically programs that are built from
malicious purposes what they do is they
go out scouring the web and they find
WordPress sites like yours that have not
been updated and if they find it which
is very easy for them to find because
they know what the exploit is they've
figured it out on a test system some
right so then they accumulate this list
of tens of thousands or 250,000 websites
that have this vulnerability that
they've discovered and then they flip
the switch it's not targeted at any one
of those individual websites those are
just the ones that they found and that
they added to their list of ones to
exploit and then all of a sudden your
website becomes an attack vector for
viruses for malware for ransomware so
people bring up your website you know
you send a link to your website to mom
and dad and all of a sudden all their
files are encrypted mmm about that so if
you run wordpress you have to do this
right now stop watching the show pause
the video log in to your WP login PHP
PHP get in there into the backend a
super administrator and update your
WordPress site now with the current
version they've patched it we've talked
about word fence on the show before get
on to our website category five dot TV
and do a quick little search for the
this one word word fence and that's
going to tell you all about some
security software that's going to help
protect you in a proactive way from
these kinds of attacks but the reason I
bring it up tonight is because this is a
very serious issue that is currently in
the wild it was discovered a couple of
weeks back and it hit like a ton of
bricks hundreds of thousands of
WordPress website right so make sure to
update I mean some people have words
wordpress blogs and websites that they
just they have just neglected they just
left it absolutely yeah right so if it's
for example mine
yeah um which luckily you somebody
updates it for you you look after it
let's say that like let's say I start
two years ago yeah I'm going to do a
blog let's just say that happen say
hypothetically just happens and then
after a few blog posts that I love doing
and still would love to get back to I
just let it go by the wayside and then I
forget about it so am i at risk because
I've created it even though I'm not
going on it is there yeah your site is
at risk my site is that right your site
also contains personal information about
you like your email address right so
your password for WordPress right
whether there are people out there right
now who aren't actively using their
website or their blogs that still should
be really not paying it is if you have
WordPress running or any software joomla
doesn't matter it doesn't matter what
program it is you've got to keep it up
to date or right now this very time it's
crucial that you update WordPress
[Music]
