welcome to episode number 3 39 of
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
the 11th of March 2014 so nice to have
you here my name is Robbie Ferguson I'm
Krista well I just realized it's not 11
18th sorry 18 so it's been one of those
nights folks and we're just getting
going yeah there's lots of try it again
I'm Robbie I think I'm still Krista
still good all right good yeah good
stuff well we have lots of cool stuff in
the news oh let's see what's going on
coming up in the newsroom won't it be
annoying when your car tells you to
start calming down I'd be a little
annoyed do you like the convenience of
direct deposit paychecks what would
happen if someone stole your banking
information from your employer bad news
a hoax email has scared thousands of
people into thinking they may have
cancer oh dear a netflix like service
for watching movies illegally shared via
BitTorrent was to shut down but now it
looks like it cannot be stopped despite
the continued warnings about security
threats following its pending end of
life nearly all bank ATMs are still
running windows XP stick around these
stores are coming up with later in the
show awesome tonight I am joined by both
crystal Wells and the lovely Hilary
Rumble hey Hill the so tonight we
are actually going to be investigating
how to use both adobe photoshop and the
GNU image manipulation program to
improve our photos perfect for sharing
on Facebook a company blog for example
so don't miss it so much time and so
little to do wait a minute strike that
reverse it and thank you it's gonna be
great Joe don't go anywhere
is category-five technology TV
Sasha dramatis
you
Hillary rumble
Kristen wells
each kid
and your host Robbie Ferguson
this is category 5 technology TV so
great having you here you'll notice that
we've all got our swell category 5
technology TV t-shirts on tonight you
pick those up at shop dot category five
dot TV really really would love to have
you order some t-shirts this week reason
is we've got we've got a minimum order
quantity that we have to get from our
manufacturers we create we do small runs
with our manufacturer these are nicely
done shirts very good quality and you're
going to love them but of course because
we have to meet that minimum we need
more orders in order to place our orders
this week so get on over to shop
category five dot TV and we'd love to
see your orders this week so that we can
get those in next weekend and really
excited to be sending some t-shirts your
way as soon as they're printed as well
shop category 5 TV exciting news
something that Hillary and I pardon me
that Krista and I have been working on
is the roku channel I think Hillary
we've talked about it as well the fact
that category 5 technology TV is about
to come to the Roku device and that of
course is a set-top box looks kind of
like this here's the box from it there
you go Roku 2 you can actually watch
category 5 technology TV on that device
as of april eight so we are officially
three weeks away from that I've been
working on the coding end of things and
making everything you know making sure
everything works and testing away on our
screen here John from our category 5
viewer community has been instrumental
in making sure that all those old
episodes that have never been released
on our website are now going to be a
part of the roku channel so awesome
you're going to actually have access to
old episodes of category 5 technology TV
as well as at
new episode moving forward and of course
crystal wells our graphic designer our
resident graphic designer doing up
really nice graphics so that our channel
stands out we have a roku channel store
we're trying to make it arrangement
right that's gonna look good it's gonna
be great so that's category 5 technology
TV this show that you're watching right
now coming to Roku on april eighth and
i'll just let you know as a partner with
Amazon I'd encourage you to go over to
cat five dot TV / Roku and its spell are
okay you and if you haven't already got
the device you've got three weeks until
our channel launches so pick one up now
cat five dot TV / Roku and you'll be
able to actually purchase one of those
devices there are four different models
to choose from so they vary in price and
that will get you all set up and you'll
have it in time for for our show
launched and you'll be supporting the
show indirectly as well because a
portion of your purchase if it's done
through that link cap five TV / roku
will actually go toward the show as well
I like it go category 5 TV is a member
of the tech podcast network if it's tech
it's here that's sorry that's cat 5 got
to view / tpn and international
association of internet broadcasters cat
five TV / IA ib thanks Krista if you've
got your mobile device handy rabbit scan
this code m dot cat five dot TV is where
you want to go on your mobile browser
and that is our official mobile website
and it features things like live video
live streaming audio as well you can
actually listen so if you're sitting on
the train or in the car you can listen
to the show without the distraction of
the video also we've got on demand video
there as well so can't beat it they're
so distracting to watch well you don't
want well when you're driving well
screen you can do people do that they
they're increasing the fines here in
Canada because people do it I sure hope
you don't do it folks that's crazy stuff
okay so exciting stuff very excited
about tonight's feature because we are
going to be taking a look at
I explain this to you Krista that we're
not doing a photoshop versus gimp
tutorial we're not do not know why it's
not a war between the two products what
we're actually doing is we want to take
a look because krista is a professional
graphic designer and so it kind of was
curious as to how you would go about
touching up photographs mm-hmm versus
how I might do it in the GIMP and maybe
I can translate some of the things that
you're doing in Photoshop in the free
GNU image manipulation program and that
benefits everybody because if what you
can do in the commercial application can
be done in the free program we'd like to
know about it why not how good is that
so Hillary joins us tonight hey Hill
hello world here i am and Hillary you
are involved in an interesting project
right now creating a blog for a business
can you tell us a little bit about that
and what what brings you here tonight
certainly so I will be doing some work
for an event planner wedding coordinator
and doing the blogging and the content
the social media kind of content for
them okay so I was starting to think and
like go through some of their past event
photos some of what you're taking on
like beautiful cameras and some of what
you're taking on like point-and-shoot
cameras and like well how can I post
these event blogs when some of the
photos look so glorious and others look
like la there's a picture of a table set
up possibly even taken from an iphone
could be I think Kristen I understand
this because a lot of times we'll have
customers come to us with the photos
that they provided and you know you mean
you can't blow that up onto a billboard
no it's 0.3 megapixels it's not going to
happen so so we want to take some of
these photos that Hillary you've
provided and see what we can do to make
them look good or you look awesome not
theirs when I've been pressing for other
people's size just to get you know a
little taste for the biz all these
photos I don't I just call it like the
wedding lens
it has this like bright airy feel to it
that vignette a the wines in yet okay
mm-hmm so like that's the look I'm going
for so when I provided these event
photos whether or not they're taking on
a like a beautiful cannon or a point and
shoot whatever I want to be able to just
do a little bit of touch-up so they look
a little class yeah for the blog sure so
first of all Krista is a professional
graphic designer / web designer and
everything that you do first impressions
when somebody comes to you and says okay
I've got all these pictures that were
taken with a mix of you know a nice
canon DSLR but also a lot that are taken
to the point and shoot camera what are
your thoughts my first impression is I'm
up for some really late nights because
they're not fun um there's usually a lot
of work and there is only so much you
can do with photos if the dad isn't
there to work with you can't add data so
I mean what you do what you have is
kinda what you have to work with you can
try to make them look a little bit
prettier maybe a little bit sharper
maybe change the sizes um that kind of
stuff obviously change lighting and
election in wedding photographer you
mentioned getting sharper but there's
even that kind of Gaussian blur yeah
kind of the fact that will remove shards
a lot yeah absolutely cannot test I
guess yeah there's a place for all that
kind of stuff yessuh so can we take a
look at some of these pictures that that
Hillary is provided and see what what we
can do so you're running what this is a
macbook yes pro um and I have I don't
have the newest version of everything um
I honestly haven't found the need for it
right now I run in cs5 okay it's an
order version of Photoshop that's fine
yeah not not too old that's a few years
like you know it's good it's hard to
keep up with all the absolute times um
so do just kind of my jump into yeah
let's jump ultimate Lissy and Hillary
you can see our screen there as well so
as as we're going to go in through here
if you have any suggestions or thoughts
we'd certainly well
yeah okay yeah so there are a lot of
photos that were supplied here for um
some of the reason just to show you kind
of the points that I wanted to I did
pull a couple other photos okay um just
cuz it's easier to show that way all
right but let's open this first one up
info okay so this is one of the ones
that Hillary is provided yes okay just
the handful and can i I'm going to
actually bring this up in GIMP as well
on my system running Linux so this is
all free software that I'm running and I
know why you haven't upgraded from cs5
yeah not free ah not so free ok back to
photoshop right so here is your photo ah
this one you can see it was probably
taken a little bit of a darker room can
you tell us a little bit about that they
used a flash I certainly can yes you're
right the flashing use in a dark space
at a retro themed party involving
costumes right which means that your
foreground will be lighter your
background is kind of dark so what the
flash is only hitting is your people
that are in your foreground really heavy
shadows yeah I see the shadows on the
hand for sure that kind of stuff unless
you want to put a lot of time you can't
really worry about the shadows but we'll
show you a couple of things that we can
do so I've opened this in mind and what
I always always do I always take the
original photo or my layer here and I'm
just going to unlock that because then
photoshop becomes locked i'm going to
duplicate it and then i'm going to
relock that just that i have a photo if
i ever make is that like your backup
yeah some kind of mistake I don't have
to I haven't saved over it it's not I
have it there so I can go back to sew on
camp what i would do is I'd right click
on the layer and go duplicate layer and
I'd achieve the same thing good stuff so
and then again what I would always do is
I would do it the non-destructive way
i'm going to show you the other way just
so that you can see where things are in
the menu bar but non-destructive versus
destructive if you edit photos
destructively as well it's called it
means that you're doing it directly on
the photo in order to get back or make a
back step you have to undo sometimes you
can
do so many times so non-destructively
you're essentially making all the same
changes but you're doing a ways where it
layers on top of the photo instead so
you can delete a layer okay so i'll show
you how to do that as well but i'm going
to show you how to do the changes
destructively just so you can see where
everything is on the menu very good so
what I would probably do first is I
probably messed around with the levels a
little bit garrick contrast so in
Photoshop you go image adjusts and
adjustments levels and if I may and GIMP
it will be oh my apologies sorry I mean
curves I don't want it levels right now
curves oh we're gonna do curves yes
sorry hey there's Photoshop their skin
they look pretty similar pretty much yet
okay so what you're seeing here there's
a histogram of the background this is
essentially showing you where your dark
darks are in the photo and how strong
your lights are on the photo to simply
put curves this here is your dark point
up here is your whites in the photo
everything on the top of this triangle
is going to be adding to sorry lightens
doesn't add sorry it lightens your
photos there we go i can see like that
everything on the bottom of the triangle
is gonna darken so nice thing about that
effect is that you're actually you're
you're working with the RGB and you're
actually increasing the luminescence of
all three red green and blue yes
simultaneously and and it's and you're
able to basically create the illusion
that you're you've got more light in the
phone yeah exactly got a bit more
contrast that way too yeah so let's have
a look what you kind of want to do with
this it's really easy to go overboard so
if you're looking at it you see all
these cross sections down here is your
blacks these will be your shadows your
mid-tones your highlights and then your
pure whites so if you look at this photo
it's fairly washed out there's a lot of
black so we're probably going to want to
adjust well we'll probably want to pull
these White's over just a bit so you can
see in the glove here how great it is
and you know it's supposed to be white
so is that adjusting the white balance
yeah okay yeah it's actually
adding sorry not adding and I guess I
whiteside like see but I can see in your
histogram there that you're in fact
lining it up with where the lights start
basically mm-hmm and this kind of goes
back to the levels will hit love a
little later but it all sausages the
histogram okay and essentially kind of
what you want to do is make sure that
you're you're adjusting to the edge of
the lights and the edge of the darks so
when there's a lot of blank space that
means it's it's not reading very high in
your lights its way over saturated with
the dark so you just kind of want to
balance things that would essentially is
what you're trying to do you're not
trying to reinvent the wheel so so i'm
going to i'm doing exactly the same
thing there in gimp as you doing okay so
there we go and then we'll probably want
to pull up our highlights just a tad Oh
wonderful and maybe pull down our
shadows just a touch because they've
come up to not that much it's a tiny
tiny bit okay so if you're happy with
that this kind of done a general
lightning then we're good with that next
you can see there's quite a bit of red
still in the photo mm-hmm so what i
would do is i would go image adjustment
selective color and what we want to
target is the Reds so you can see here
in colors it says Reds okay and then I
want to pull the magenta out of that
just a bit yeah we'll show you it said
it does oh yeah so you've got kind of
almost a neon luminescence when you turn
when you turn off your preview mm-hmm
you can really see that almost like fake
hair GIMP is right click colors color
balance and bring it now which way were
you going you're going away from magenta
a little bit yours is set up a little
different this one you're kind of you're
switching out one color for the other
whereas in this one you're just removing
a color okay so maybe I'm in the wrong
spot so while you while you show us let
me see if I can find what do you call it
it is God's elect as an elective color
hmm let's see no it's not that uh why
blitz luck to your primary color to
adjust was that do so primary colors red
try that okay and let's bring down the
saturation of red maybe it yeah that's
news to be Jane that's similar similar
site okay so the way I got to that is
right click on the image colors
hue/saturation selected red as my
primary color to adjust and bring down
the saturation of the color red and that
does appear to be doing pretty much the
same thing mm-hmm cool okay so we can do
that in GIMP as well and i'll hit okay
good stuff and then you can also notice
this one's kind of a good example of
where you have selective areas that are
maybe too saturated in one color and not
the whole thing this one looks like
maybe this young lady was doing a lot
dancing and she's just a little flushed
so I kinda I want to select her just her
face there so I've been I've sorry i'm
in my brush just gave her a dot in my
brush here i'm gonna do a larger brush
i'm at 86 points that's fine and i want
to be a little bit feathered I don't
want it to have hard edges so about
fourteen percent and full opacity is
fine okay and then what I'm going to do
is I'm going to go into what's called
let's see you select a quick mask and
that pretty much means that i'm just
going to paint the areas so i want to
select and stuff going around and
pointing like selecting it just with low
points right just a little faster for a
little more natural like she's got very
smooth lines on her face versus a
triangle right well just give her a
paint she's a little blue and then we
exit that
so if I can can I do the same over in
GIMP what I would do is I would select
use my selection tool and hit control a
to select all and then use the quick
mask marquee button down on the bottom
left hand side or shift Q which turns on
quick mask bring up my paintbrush same
thing so change the size of our
paintbrush to something appropriate to
large and the the feather eNOS of it it
is not a word hmm i'm sure the brush
head now it is now the softness of it so
i would create the same thing it's not
purple it's red there we go sort of
right I'm a little rougher this than you
are shift Q and then right click and
select inverse because remember i
started with a select all or invert
there we go so now I've got the same
selection as you do good stuff and that
action we're just quickly going to go to
the selective color and then just you
see where the little marching ants are
in that area where these marching ants
are that's the only place the color is
going to be taken out of everything else
is going to remain the same and it's
going to be clean because that marquee
in fact you can't see it but it has that
feathered ed yeah exactly that's why we
used to softer brush yeah so I just can
pull a little bit extra magenta out of
her face here that's not a lot but it's
gonna make it makes a big difference so
does not feed zoom out here she was so
just a little bit more in tune with
everyone else's color there right and I
suppose that same kind of effect could
be used for teeth whitening absolutely
we're actually going to touch on that
later chair just a little bit of a
pretty and kind of people up yeah thank
you can we come look younger get rid of
any of those spots that everybody has
and yeah make your teeth look whiter I
like good stuff in GIMP it's gonna be
the same as we just did colors
hue/saturation select red bring down her
saturation and there you go same deal
right there we go
really good stuff so if you look at that
compared to the original like it like I
said there's only so much you can do
with a photo but it is still so much
better than what it was before
absolutely if you wanted to crop it down
i'll show you a clip cropping why we do
in Photoshop instead of resizing the
image if I want just a specific section
I would take my crop tool and I size it
up he shoots the crop tool again sorry
sorry she's right here my palette and
then I would sighs it up here say I knew
in my blog that the image widths had to
be let's say 600 pixels so i type 600
there but it doesn't matter what the
sizes it's automatically going to size
it appropriately is it proportional I
know it's see I can drag it like so it's
vertical or horizontal regardless this
is going to be 500 pixels wide and then
it will make the height whatever you've
created here alright let's see it in
action so if we just drag it to where we
want it's gonna black out everywhere
that will get cropped off so say you're
just showing an awesome photo of you and
your friends there we go and I say yes
okay and there we go cool in GIMP i
usually use i actually just use the
marquee i usually start with a control a
and what i like about the GIMP is that
you can actually drag in your marquee
and you can just move the marquee around
it doesn't if this isn't the crop tool
this is just the marquee itself which is
really really nice and in fact you can
even do that with say a circular marquee
you can in fact stretch it which is a
brilliant thing to be able to do but I
see what you're doing is using this crop
tool and GIMP has it as well but i'm not
familiar with it enough but i see that
the settings are pretty much the same as
what you when you've done in photoshop
and when you use the marquee do you
actually have to copy and paste it into
a newborn whatever does it resize your
pace for it all well it's not automatic
that way what I would normally do i
start with the marquee and then i say oh
well I want to make this you know so
that they're centered perfectly in the
photo I might do it like that and then I
right click and I go image crop to
selection and then I get the same okay
so that it adjusts board as well you
okay very cool and sometimes what I'll
then do is I'll say okay well this is
going to be printed as a four by six say
so I'll do my canvas size and we see
that oh I've actually cropped it too
short for example right so i might undo
that make my mark ii a little bit higher
crop it again in this particular case go
image canvas size and then switch back
to inches so i can go four by six but
you see you need to see what i mean
obviously my proportions are a little
off but i can actually set it up so that
it's gonna fit that that make sense yeah
very cool actually works Bailey's a
similar there we go now I've got four
four by six perfect that's what I was
going to and then I can move it around
this is a nice thing about campus you
can move around your crop as you're
resizing the canvas there you go so
there's a perfect four by six that's
what I wanted to get Lee yeah good stuff
so for me with a photo that's been taken
with flash in such a dark setting that's
probably as much as I would dare to do
with that photo um otherwise you risk
once you start editing a JPEG too much
you actually start reducing I think it's
the bit depth which means that you're
working with you don't get it just it
destroys the photo essentially a huge
like it's the last night medium yes
thank you Shh like the old reel 2 reals
kids when you'd copy and copy and copy
it eventually end up with a dub that's
really bad quality yes exactly well punt
alright so let's close that one while
she's opening up the next one look at
the difference again there's the
original cropped there's my my GIMP
version very similar to what what was
the chief didn't Photoshop good
difference hill looks terrific very good
i'm learning lots of keep keep going
guys okay okay all right i'll turn we're
going to mess around with eric great now
oh well this this could be fun there was
a great photo that was supplied but the
only problem with it was that the girl's
face was too perfect so i couldn't show
you everything that i wanted to show you
so as much as I know Eric loves me i'm
sure he'd appreciate if we took a few
years off would be a sweet fault Britta
so here
is mr. Eric oh and you don't have this
photo deal would you like it what are
you gonna do like just tap your macbook
to my monitor and it'll just I don't
know you can finally do the same things
that's the file name I could tell you
it'll be on our server here bojan my
major can identify think about that okay
will you show us some photoshop you
could also draw my to do this i'm on the
foes that Hillary is supplied it would
just be a different photo okay well how
about but you can also show the same as
you start this is poorly planned but
very well implemented this my few start
you start showing and I'll grab the
photo at the same time and get it up in
the GIMP how's that alright alright so
here's Eric okay there's Eric first up
again I'm going to duplicate the photo
and lock it so that I can't ruin that
first one this time instead of curves
i'm going to show you levels sorry I
want to do everything with quick keys
but I realize I need to show you where
things are so we go image adjustment
levels so this is a histogram I was
talking about earlier this shows you the
balance between darks and lights in your
photo the left be in your darks the
right be in your lights so when
something is this skewed um it can
depend on what kind of photo it is this
this here photo looks like it's intended
to be in a darker setting and so of
course your darks are going to be higher
up here are your input levels that means
that that is darks and lights that you
are adding to the photo down here are
output levels that means it's darks and
lights you are taking out of the photo
that was sorry I have the camera on you
down where oh sorry here so this is
input okay um this will be lights and
darks you're adding down here is output
lights and darks here moving it's
generally you don't want to mess with
the output unless it's um I would do
that more on an outdoor photo but so
input this is here you see that our
lights kind of start right here
by our starter levels all the way over
so I just won't pull it over just a tiny
bit just to brighten them up and I want
to pull our darks are blacks down just a
bit as well for contrast so let's say 11
and just gonna pull us up a bit and then
I'm going to this here is your mid tones
so it doesn't overall on the photo
doesn't select just your darks or your
lights it'll apply it to the entire
thing so I'm going to pull that just a
little bit lighten it up there we go and
eric is also a little bit red in this
photo so I am going to select his face
like we did in the last one with your
brush same thing exactly the mark here
yeah quick mask exactly it's just kind
of the easiest way or the quickest way
for me to show you right now to you
could always take if you have like a
lasso tool which is like right you have
anything like that and gas and gimp in
fact that well maybe long the last tool
in GIMP because again i can readjust the
purport i can readjust the marquee after
it's been created ray so i'm still
looking for the photo folks but ok well
let's see yours do that little shop here
real quick this is though so you're
joining our key here is the this one's
called the lasso tool okay so you find
it here this one's lasso and sorry i
guess i'm using the polygonal lasso tool
okay yeah let's just start facing it
yeah pretty much so i'm just making
small points all the way around holding
anything on the keyboard I'm not if i
were to i'll show you look let's say I
made a mistake and went halfway up his
face here yes then I think what happens
in Photoshop there we go on then it
selects only here and I go oh I want to
add this so I'm gonna hold down my shift
key which makes it an ad you're gonna
add I'm are keen to
exactly in Photoshop you don't have a
way to correct the image um if I were
actually to use my my pen tool that
would be exactly what I would be nectar
is enough or is it okay it's not sorry
it's not vector it's um let me just
close this and I'll show you there we go
so now we have him selected um it would
be this tool here this pen right and
then I don't really want to push down
because I'm we're gonna lose this
election okay well let me make with the
Marquis and then sure okay so the guys
face selected we go to image adjustments
selective color we're gonna pull a
little bit of Magento to this phase now
because you use the marquee tool there
the polygonal marquee is there any
feathering on when I created it there is
a refined edges option so that's up to
you how soft do you want the edges to be
you can create them that way because i
used this version no i didn't i didn't
set it up while I was demonstrating
right there okay to have softer edges
and and that's something where I
probably wouldn't have done this this
way to select his face but I wanted to
show you that method no knowing that now
if you change the levels or the
saturation with the Marquis there
unfeathered it's going to have a bit
dark edge almost a cliff edge is there a
way for us to feather the edge once the
Marquis is created once we realize
absolutely that's so I just got out of
that and still we have this selected
here up here on this toolbar in
Photoshop there's something called
refine edges so you just click on that
and it's going to black out everything
that's not selected and then the feather
option is right here so you can pull
that a bit and you see it just softens
the edges your exploding head then you
can also smooth it a bit and it just
makes your lines a little less abrupt we
don't need to worry about that right now
but yeah well do the feathering what
makes the would be like selecting a
softer brush nice like fat
image adjustments selective color let's
pull a little magenta out of him you
won't mind there we go now I want to
white and Eric's teeth a little so I'm
going to go back to my trusty stop that
right just thinks I'm selected somewhere
there we go back to my brush and select
quick mask make my brush a little
smaller I just got painted teeth blue
that's a good luck for him okay okay
yeah yeah we're talking about ah um and
select inverse to their to get that
section that you wanted do you know the
file name there yet by chance just the
file aiming for it I found Elizabeth's
photo shoot we can find out Eric really
one bill will follow along on GIMP here
cuz I I know a lot of this stuff is that
is imaged 717 1 1 okay perfect thanks
that features right so over on let's get
this in GIMP aren't I a big jerk 71 71
okay yeah way to spring that on me yo I
told you before Angie I would pull
different photos yeah all right now we
go there it is in GIMP you know about
jerk I marquee tool ok zoom in on face
and this is the last marquee what i can
do is i can hold in my control key
and do that kind of thing same as your
dad but see what I can do in GIMP that
you can't do in Photoshop and I'm not
this again it's not a photoshop versus
gimp tutorial just want you to know that
I see everywhere I click there is still
a point that i can now move so if in
your in your case you accidentally went
like that I can actually say oh well
well let's actually fix that right maybe
if I finish the marquee I can I can fix
things a little easier so if it's like
that and let's say I go outside oh I can
actually move that or if I go out here
and you see that I've actually clicked
there I can move that point kind of cool
that's kind of name so and if I were to
get up here I'm not sure what that that
that was a pretty cool tool where did
you go with C again I just anywhere that
seems a little red on this page sure
okay you'd have to worry about going
around his hair too much because it's
not gonna pull okay too much out of
there alright so I haven't feathered
either I could have feathered using this
feather edges over here it sounds like
you're doing your hair in the morning
but what i can do is i can right click
select feather and just tell it how many
pixels i want to feather by which you
know i might say 25 in this case and
that's something that will change to
depend on how large the photo you're
working with it sure okay so let's
remove some of the red just like we
learned in the previous photo same sort
of idea right yeah exactly cool okay and
what was next uh we selected his teeth
okay Alexis t okay you go ahead okay so
his teeth are selected here on my end
and again we're using that there's i
should say there are so many ways to do
these but if you're looking to do all
these quick and easy for your blog it's
best just to stick with one method okay
um so I'm just kind of sticking with the
the Handy selective color to all since I
like it makes things so we're learning a
tool here that we're gonna be able to do
a lot with exactly okay so this is
photoshop so in this case instead of the
Reds um i'm gonna select neutrals and
i'm going to pull a little bit of the
yellow a little bit of magenta out okay
you're bringing it more than worth the
white exactly could i not now we already
learned the curves tool tonight as well
could we use that to say okay here i am
in GIMP and let's say I've got that
selection now let's bring up the whites
no let's see that excuse the color a lot
doesn't it exactly levels on the other
hand is your brightness and contrast
unless there are ways to select just
your RGB photoshop that's getting a
little bit more into things right and
curves are very easy to overdo okay so
show us how this is done yeah it's so
nice so just pulling out some of the
magenta some of the yellow uh maybe a
little bit of the scion here just until
they start looking there I kind of like
that not overly white you don't when you
make someone's teeth in a photo overly
way it looks unnatural looks fake like
what I did there but see I could do the
same thing over in GIMP we know that I
could select each one that I want to
bring
down not going to take too much time
here just because we know that we've got
the same tool we've already established
that so that's awesome cool no it's
tough cool well let's see what else you
can do with Eric oh I know what I want
to do this helpful hill I think eric has
these nice brown eyes here and I just
want them to pop a little bit more so
what I'm going to do is I'm taking my
it's called the saturation tool and it's
in my palette here and it's this little
sorry not saturated it's called a sponge
tool and what is its going to do is
saturate and i have it set up to i can
make our brush size a little bit bigger
there and you want to be very soft you
don't want hard edges on it either so
I'm gonna go about 9% and this is
headset to saturate you can also set to
desaturate and that takes the color out
of a photo but we want to just make the
color that's all right there just a
little bit stronger and I have the flow
rate set to about thirty percent so that
just adjusts how strong how much they
can airbrush painters yeah I guess so
how how happy you want to do it
installed it and not really strong or
you're just gonna pop this pressure his
eyes I just made them break it up just a
little bit you can also apply that
whitening t strategy to the whites of
his eyes if you want to put I think he's
pretty good right now yeah and I would
like to meet Eric with just a little bit
younger
is anyone line all right so I'm going to
take my clone tool which is in my palate
again and then it shows up with a brush
size
still pretty soft brush and then I want
not with your full weight to their
similar to fairly low here the point
isn't to get rid of his smile line
I'm going to select somewhere close to
where areas i want
we're selecting from and click that it's
something on the GIMP here no this is
something you may not have it in cs5 but
in the later versions of photoshop you
can pay more and get this we have the
healing tool yeah so and I can actually
use that it looks like a little bandage
thing and if i zoom in on Eric watch
this this is crazy because the clone
tool you're actually you're replicating
stuff you're replicating this cheek part
and putting it over top of ya that's why
you use that very diluted right not a
hundred percent or your crazy thing with
this particular tool in the GIMP GNU
image manipulation program this is the
the free kind of image editor that we
love I'm going to the same thing i'm
going to holding my left ctrl key and
click and what it does is it actually it
does a comparative and it creates new
textures based on what should be there
and is able to just do a crit you know
with a little bit of clicking oh and I'm
on your screen look at the difference
sorry so here here I've clicked so I was
showing you the photoshop screen here i
am on gimp with the healing brush well
and I've sorry I've messed it up now
because i undid too much here let's just
revert because i want to show you this
okay Oh terrible demonstration it was
working just a moment ago okay let me
close out sure I had the wrong screen
oklas Hill you're gonna love this on
GIMP I promise you that cool oh sorry
your mic is off they're ok your mic
you will never be nearly
okay so we're gonna have to kill
Hillary's Mike there sorry okay so sorry
about that folks hopefully it has that
been going on for a while a little bit
all right thank so you could have yelled
at us okay you're just going ok so
that's that's that's the healing tool
anyway so but I suppose we should jump
into News Hillary now we can't hear you
right but does that does that help you
get a little bit of information yeah
filters and things I think there's a ton
you can do and the best way if you're
curious just go online go on where
whatever your search engine that you
want to use and type in Photoshop
tutorials photo touch ups and there are
hundreds of just great pointers out
there too mm-hmm great way to learn well
this is category 5 technology TV Hillary
we're happy to you're gonna be on the
show again soon and we'll be happy to go
over some of the you know I think about
the Gaussian effects and a white layer
because when we're taking shots for a
wedding what do we typically do is that
a like a white soft focus to the camera
so that you get a really nice kind of
soft almost a glow to the picture and
that can be done digitally as well so
that's kind of cool oh it just takes a
lot longer than you want it to yes of
course okay are you set oh yeah let's
give her some news all right Oh
we will promise yeah I can i can start
you can start it and it'll just but
it'll just blow job there you go okay
well here are the stories from the
category five dot TV news room a concept
to embed facial recognition cameras in
two steering wheels to detect angry or
upset drivers is being worked on by
researchers a team in switzerland said
irritated drivers could be more
aggressive and less attentive and
therefore assessing emotional state
could improve safety tests of the system
show promising levels of accuracy the
team said but one group representing the
interests of drivers was not impressed
the researchers from the Swiss Federal
Institute of Technology in Los and said
their system learned to identify two
emotions anger and disgust on the face
of its test subjects another use for the
technology was said to be to detect
driver fatigue by monitoring the
percentage of eyelid closure that's kind
of cool kind of creepy I said cool he
said well I think they got the
breathalyzers and everything that makes
sense so then but I guess a probably a
good thing because but what would have
what would happen next it's like so does
the car not start a very well yeah
really you need to calm down a little
Syria yeah I do I think the fatigue it
starts with you is a little more uh you
so than the anger one sure yeah if
you're dozing off you want the car to
like give you like a little maybe maybe
they'd have liked to vibrate contacts on
your back ah ok I'm awake car yeah shock
yes just a little bit little tase I
think the 59 school but you know if you
ever have a song on and you're singing
or singing really Yuri what if it's rude
you know like you just get into it you
can't help it angry but you're not I
know this could be a problem it started
with your door is ajar now it's like
settle down sir that's not a bad thing
alright well we'll see alright isn't it
convenient that your employer can direct
deposit your paycheck into your bank
account I think so surely the staff at
morrison supermarkets felt that way
until the details of around 100,000
employees were stolen
the information which is one bank
account details has since been published
online and sent on a disk to a newspaper
Morrison said its initial investigation
does not point to the work of an outside
hacker the supermarket chain is
reassuring shoppers saying there had
been no loss of customer data but that
the majority of its staff have been
affected by the theft of payroll data
it's kind of scary a little bit yeah you
think that is convenient hmm maybe you
should just get your check on to the
bank but of them maybe dent data and the
bank so make sure you're happy on the
way or your car's not gonna start see
yeah it's amazing how you make it all
roll together is amazing happens yeah
you think though that you're safe with
so you'd never think that your employer
would have this stuff yeah actually it
happens just be careful folks a health
watchdog is warning that since that
thousands of people have been sent hoax
emails suggesting they have cancer the
convincing messages appeared to come
from the National Institute for Health
and Care Act sorry health and care
excellence it says the contents are
likely likely be distressing and has
reported the hoax to the police it is
not clear exactly how many people are
affected but based on the high numbers
of calls to the organization it is
thought to be numbered in the thousands
that is sad oh you Lydon yeah really i
was looking at this and they make it
sound like it's coming from health
agency this nice yeah nice we have been
sent a sample of your blood analysis for
further research during the complete
blood count we reveal the white blood
cells are very low and unfortunately we
have a suspicion of cancer we suggest
that you bring in your cbc test results
and interpretations and attachments
below and visit your family doctor as
soon as possible this is just short and
just like holy cow that make anyone's
heart stopped practically yeah no
kidding what's the motivation behind
something like that I had Oracle
question but seriously maybe it's set up
by family doctors
it's the it's the people's family doctor
just needs extra business haven't seen
you in a while dear me never no never no
all right well imagine a world where new
release movies movies still in the
theater and everything in between can be
watched from a Netflix like interface
this is a world that is upon us but that
the movie industry drugs of course
popcorn time allows free access to
movies by streaming content shared
illegally as bit torrent files its maker
said they were closing the experimental
service but other developers have taken
over 10 my goodness one analyst
described the software as a nightmare
scenario from the movie industry the
software which launched last week has
been made open source and post it on a
popular code sharing website this means
that anyone is now free to use adapt and
crucially host sorry crucially hosts the
software making it more difficult to
close down it also means that while the
original popcorn time makers decide to
close a service at the end of last week
it has now essentially taken on a life
of its own wow that is a very cool idea
I think though the fact that they're
using illegal Torrance's yeah is you
know obviously that's gray area and kind
of sad that it's but but think about
something like category 5 or revision 3
or twit TV being able to use torrents to
stream their shows to people that would
be amazing can you imagine that would
cut our costs exponentially that's the
whole idea of torrent it's you're
sharing the hosting so as I'm watching
it it's also streaming to Christa and as
Krista's watching it it's streaming over
to Hilary and it becomes this you know
what is the web it's meant to be this
interconnection of computers that could
be used for some serious serious good
maybe the movie industry needs to step
up and say hey here's a technology that
we could be using making just realign
the focus a little really yeah start
doing things right for a change this is
in 1986 exactly mm-hmm despite so many
warnings for microsoft microsoft and
cyber security experts windows XP is
still being used by number
government organizations financial
institutions as well as big corporations
all around the world if you stick with
windows XP after april eighth of 2014 at
yale be at great risk as XP will take
its last breath officially on its state
this state that fact poses a danger to
its users as they will be exposed to all
kinds of treats it's hard to believe
that around ninety five percent of the
four hundred twenty thousand banks ATMs
in the USA the country which is known
for the world's largest national
securities cybersecurity division also
runs on Windows XP but after the
deadline if a serious security flaw or
vulnerability is found in windows XP the
banks on their own will defend against
the increasingly high high tech cyber
criminals I'm having a hard time tonight
all is not lost for Microsoft a
spokesperson from the company told
Reuters there are certainly large
enterprise enterprise customers who
haven't finished their migrations debt
and our purchasing custom support it is
estimated at for British banks alone the
cost of extending support for windows XP
would be around 50 to 60 million pounds
which is up to a hundred million dollars
u.s. whoa yeah exactly they're not
minding I can't believe that the bank
machines are all still using XP
ninety-five percent what's the big deal
data sure replace four hundred thousand
machines it's gonna be costly but
they're saying 100 100 million u.s.
dollars to extend support on 13 14 year
old operating system the sounds would
have thought about this before well
they've been yeah we all should have
thought of this poor hello really it
just sounds like another band-aid
approach and we're getting a little sick
of hearing a band-aid or approaches when
it comes to Microsoft Windows honestly
it's two days so that too dangerous and
these are the bank machines that were
walking to deposit our chair is no safe
way with a smile there's no safe way
walk into balls not putting my money in
a machine that runs windows XP after
april eight pass for your paychecks in
cash and put under your mattress what's
the only safe way
sent it I guess so all right yeah you
guys can get the full stories at
category five dot TV / newsroom category
five TVs newsroom is research by roy w
natural contributions by our community
of viewers if you have a new store you
think is worthy of on-air mention can
email us at category five dot TV from
the category five TV newseum I'm
crystals thanks Krista this is category
5 technology TV if you stuck with us
through all the audio nonsense yes it's
always fun when we try to introduce all
this one we got a great set up I think
he'll I but now we can't hear you
because see the lapel that you're
wearing so this is the lapel microphone
folks we need another one of these
headsets so if you want to help us out
you know go buy some t-shirts honestly
that would help us out because that this
is I like the setup I like being able to
have two co-hosts here I think our setup
is pretty good you'll be able to see
pictures after the show to show you how
what we actually see but we set up a
nice little area for for Hillary to sit
in and it's quite comfy you got your own
computer and chat room and all that
stuff but the microphone unfortunately
had some serious difficulties that's too
bad well sorry about that next time I'll
be perfect next time I would like to say
as we are just about out of time I'd
like to say hello to some of our
registered viewers maybe you can take it
away as I bring up the map sure we have
G man welcome we also have car w
campbell welcome karl w campbell yeah
adelaide g/km welcome welcome to the
show uh v7 and BBD will welcome to you
nice time and lastly we have Sergio Pete
welcome sir geo jenn and welcome to all
of our viewers tonight watching from
Calgary Alberta
evansville Lexington this Moscow as well
tune in to category 5 Moncton and
Amherst got a fair number of viewers
along the San Francisco coast in Chicago
in that area nice to have you joining us
of course to run a southern Ontario and
the northern United States plenty of
people there Kia and Malaysia quite a
few people watching tonight from
Malaysia that's pretty awesome so thank
you so much for joining us tonight
everybody i hope that in spite of our
audio difficulties that you were able to
enjoy the show of course it catch us in
the chat room afterward its category 5
on freenode next week erika lalonde is
going to be joining us i'm going to be
installing this really cool wall
receptacle that in fact offers to not
one but two no 12 and a half wat USB
receptacles oh right in your wall so
you've got the plugs and you've got the
plugs right there no adapters necessary
no iPad charger tablet charger whatever
devices you're using your cell phone
plug directly into the USB ports on the
wall so that's all the time that we have
tonight folks Hilary a pleasure to have
you here thanks for joining us tonight
Krista always nice to have you here hey
nice to see you and see you next Tuesday
night guys
good night
we hope you enjoyed the show category 5
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven p.m.
eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
