I built this this is called a cloud
shell - yes
it's a nass case for a particular type
of SBC single board computer called the
Odroid Xu for now folks have said then
that's so huge it's way bigger than a
Raspberry Pi and you even said it after
the show it can't be a PI killer because
it's too big
yes but we've since explained this so I
want to show you now okay okay I have
put I've taken the Odroid xu 4 out of
the cloud shell - okay and I have placed
it in a standard SBC case so you can see
at home how magically it's shrunk okay
we're ready
okay we are ready that's a little box do
you see this little box yes this
contains two supercomputers
one is a Raspberry Pi 3 and the other is
an Odroid X u4q now this box in and of
itself is about the size of a paperback
novel sure a little bit smaller there
are the two SBC's side-by-side let's get
in on on me here so you can see okay so
I'm gonna pull these out this is a
Raspberry Pi 3 okay
can you folks see that at home yeah this
is an odd roid xu4 Q side by side are
you ready for this
yep Raspberry Pi 3 Odroid xu 4 q the xu
4 q is smaller than a Raspberry Pi 3 and
yet it has 8 cores yep 2 gigahertz 2
gigs of ram and it's faster Ram it's got
USB 3 mm-hmm it's got a barrel connector
for the power instead of using a USB
it's got Gigabit Ethernet right lots
going on for it we're gonna be showing
this on the show next week we're gonna
actually fire it up because that's the
other thing people are asking for hey
you never fired it up
I was showing you how to put it into the
case so now we're gonna actually fire it
up next week and we're gonna do a little
bit of a head-to-head comparison see we
see the difference between them
[Music]
[Applause]
