here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV news room a
security researcher about ten thousand
dollars for finding a bug on yahoo that
would let him read any users mail
Samsung is going to brick Galaxy Note
seven phones early next week Fitbit has
bought and is killing off pebble and
fraudsters can guess Visa card
information in just six seconds these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere Jeff Weston Yemen you're
building a brand new beautiful website
what
are you all right you're a terrible
actor what this we're acting comes into
play I don't know where I think you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website that's true how much
hard drive space you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cap five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name rousseau your own com
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
just don't put out of the papers are
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're gonna find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV / dreamhost i am
satvinder Madison here are the top
stories for the week of December 14 2006
need a security researcher says he
begged $10,000 after discovering and
reporting a serious flaw in yahoo email
that would have been exploited by crooks
to read victims messages the hacker says
that he reported the vulnerability in
yahoo mail via the bug bounty organizers
hacker won the impact of the bug is
similar to the 1i reported last year
which also brought a ten-thousand-dollar
bounty the hacker said it aloud an
attacker to for example Rita victims
email the flaw fixed in production late
last month could be exploited simply by
tricking your target into opening a
booby trap female the same vulnerability
could also be abused to spread malware
the root cause of the problem was a
failure to sanitize up user-supplied
values in dynamic content for this
latest programming blunder pinon and
supplied proof-of-concept exploit code
to yahoo security team in the form of an
email that when viewed would use ajax to
read the users in box contents and send
it to an attacker server Wow good for
him two years running he was able to did
it right it's like a full-time job I
wonder how much time was spent finding
this exploit but I mean so great that
he's finding it reporting it and it's
getting fixed before anybody else can
find it and that my dear young hackers
is the correct way to pursue hacking
security research so what they call
white hats like good hackers or white
yeah Kevin be anybody's typically
involves SEO search engine optimization
white hat hackers would be yeah the good
guys but you consider that like the 18
year old hacker who did not take the
right approach oh that's Tran instead
tweeted the hack exploit set off a
ricochet effect causing iOS 10 to dial
911 device that opens the tweet complete
we overloaded the 911 operators and the
system crap not the way to do it no not
the way to do it charges went to jail
yes criminal record so you now know how
to do it this guy twenty thousand
dollars over the course of two years
ching cha ching great anyone still using
a samsung galaxy note 7 has five days to
return their device for a refund before
samsung's kills the handsets for good
literally the South Korean electronics
giant says that an over-the-air update
set for release on December nineteenth
will effectively brick the devices for
good shutting off all phone and data
connections and preventing the
android-powered handset from accepting a
recharge that is all the way dead this
samsung hopes will kill off the seven
percent of sold galaxy note 7 7 units
that have not yet been returned for a
refund while the note 7 is still legal
to own so long as you're not flying
samsung has been extremely aggressive
with the voluntary recall for the fire
prone handset not everyone however we'll
see you there note 7 go dark on December
nineteenth verizon says that it will not
be taking part in the mass shutdown but
will continue to request that customers
bring their handsets in to swap out for
a new device Wow ok so it's an
aggressive voluntary recall in that your
phone will be dead we recalled that give
it back to us now now I mean we will
destroy it you have to imagine that a
certain percentage of the purchases went
to people who may be themselves have
passed on or that the phones themselves
have been accidentally dropped in a
toilet so no not sure maybe they don't
exist so seven percent outstanding is
actually not that bad however but if you
are using your note 7 we will kill you
the thing is I mean Samsung at this
point has to cover themselves to the
point right like they don't want I want
to be liable for that is
yeah so here's the what concern comes to
mind though how many not white hat
hackers are hearing what Samsung is
about to do to the note 7 and saying oh
you can do that if we could compromise
Samsung's servers we could destroy all
of their phones if we could compromise
apples servers roll out a particular
type of update that bricks all of these
devices hmm that's a scary thought that
that these companies have that amount of
power that that they can do that I can
understand their reasoning for doing
that but by doing it they're admitting
that they have that power right which is
a little bit on the freaky side and
again for a seven percent I feel like to
show your hand at this point yeah for
seven percent it it is risky business
now Verizon saying that they're not
going to do it is also interesting
because is this subway to I guess garner
affection I don't know why they would
not take part yeah and if everyone else
is right maybe it's just it who knows
the reasoning right it could be to be
climbed to their users but how kind is
that yeah here eating go it's enabling
yeah exactly this phone it is almost
with all certainty going to burn
something in your life at some point so
return it now what are your thoughts the
19th of September December not do you
still have a note 7 are you of the seven
percent of note 7 users that still have
it you are definitely not no you aren't
I know you've returned it I got this
yeah I hope before it's too late yes get
it back Fitbit the world's best-selling
wearable tech maker has confirmed it is
buying the inventions that power pebbles
smartwatches however the deal does not
include any of pebbles products and work
on several crowdfunded devices that have
yet
to be made have been cancelled pebble
said it would try and refund backers of
the time to core and time round gadgets
by March 2017 it also warned those who
already owned its gear to expect less
support Fitbit has said that key
personnel from pebble would join its
company the founder of pebble will not
be among them the approach makes the
acquisition appear to be one to obtain
patents software and personnel leaving
pebble users in its dust this makes
sense on a business standpoint Fitbit is
an amazing product I will say because I
have one in love it but I also i
understand i mean there are pebble users
out here that are really going to be
negley negatively affected oh sure right
I wonder if if if it might lend a
helping hand or a generous discount for
ya does leave a sour taste in your mouth
if you're a pebble user right acquiring
conquer and destroy yeah it seems kind
of schoolyard bully ish to me but I mean
it's a business move and it makes sense
and I do love my Fitbit Fitbit recognize
that pebble had very talented developers
very talented ideas people in this
particular market that they are right
owning and and so acquired the company
so that they can have those people they
don't care about the product maybe some
of the patents sure some of the ideas
and some of the things that pebble can
do it does make me wonder what will be
on the shelves for Christmas next year
after this acquisition true enough and
if your pebble user how does it make you
feel mm-hmm I can tell you as a Fitbit
user I feel you're indifferent I feel
well you're now mine um more features
for me I don't know I feel I feel like
it's a good business move it just
doesn't feel like a great emotional move
yeah and they're not taking on the whole
staff that's nothing like that they have
net picked through and said these are
the ones we want the rest of them sorry
you're out of work yeah the founder the
founder is moving to a different company
so I'm not sure if that was part of the
deal or if that's his choice
but he's not a part of the acquisition
itself but pebble has been you know and
in all honesty they've been struggling
over the past little while right but
they've been trying to innovate and
bring out some great new products
they've got some great crowdfunding
campaigns that were doing well and that
have now been canceled right but I mean
I guess that that's the nature of the
business is that the business we already
started the show talking about the
business the business according to a
group of researchers from Newcastle
University fraudsters can guess credit
card numbers in as little as six seconds
per attempt thanks to security gaps in
visas network the brute force attacks
allow criminals to bombard visa with
card payment request sick across
multiple sites with each attempt
narrowing the possible combinations
until a valid card number and expiry
date are determined the research team
says unlike rival MasterCard Visa does
not detect the flood of requests across
multiple sites they call it a
distributed guessing attack and proved
its effectiveness against the top 400
payment sites the attacks rely on
card-not-present fraud which merchants
do not require the three digit cvv
number to authorize a transaction that's
the three digit number on the back of
your card the researchers said this
attack subverts the payment
functionality from its intended purpose
of validating card details into helping
the attackers to generate all security
data fields required to make online
transactions the researchers say all
merchants should use standard payment
authorization fields to knock out the
ability for the attacks to scale that's
in in the holiday season that's really
scary information to have it's a very
old-school attack you know seemingly old
school but understanding how it works
it's it's clever mm-hmm they just woke
so how it works is there I guess asking
a bunch of different sites with just
subtle
different numbers right consider not if
the site is going to maybe block you
after 10 attempts well it times that by
400 right and now we've got you know
40,000 attempts I don't I feel like visa
in this case is going to step up their
game because they do offer a really good
insurance policy sure don't protect
their eyes for sure exactly now that you
gotta catch it yeah you got to catch it
that's true watch your statements folks
that's very true I mean at some point
there's gonna have to be an extra level
of security I myself use the visa I've
noticed that there is a lot of security
in my opinion I sometimes have to take a
picture of my card yeah before I
actually and then email it oh yes I
thank you I went to the bank and they
tried to get me on this card with the
tap feature no okay I'm like I'm like
old-school I'm like don't do the tab
think about this you've got a card that
is more secure because they've added
this chip and pin system more secure and
then they go and add tap to it which has
no security whatsoever what close to
somebody I think and just people are
into people are getting point-of-sale
systems in their iphones which are
totally legitimate that you use for home
businesses and contractors and things
and they're walking around at parades
and touching people's pockets with their
phone and taking 20 bucks here 20 bucks
there 20 bucks there truth be told i
mean there for the tap it's a low limits
limits at all right twenty bucks here
twenty bucks factly en will some people
notice yes well we'll most people notice
yes well some people not notice at all
yeah not everybody scrutinizes their
statements i have to admit i don't okay
if I notice something missing like if I
if I bounced a check or something
because somebody stole money out of my
account because I keeping enough you
know records that I know how much money
is there but it would have to be
significant enough to bounce a check or
to cause a transaction to not go through
right that's not an invitation to hack
my visa
but I'm just saying maybe we need to
watch it fairly closely right exactly i
mean i keep my visa balance paid off
mm-hmm so i would notice i do that but
when i go into the branch i say how much
is owing on my card and they'll say
so-and-so amount of dollars and i pay it
without ya so I don't say okay well what
was that what caused that to be X number
of dollars why is it twenty dollars more
than I thought it should be right
doesn't happen I know that it's not the
top feature no it's not the top feature
i opted out folks that's right i don't
have tap i also didn't know it was so
dangerous you know how long it took me
to accept the chip in my card hmm i was
i was like bossed into it it had to
happen they were like we were going to
take your card away you now have to have
a chip yeah last minute for me forced
you into it thanks for watching the
category 5 TV news room don't forget to
Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight linux biased and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category 5 TV news
room I'm Sasha through Mavis
[Music]
