for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
welcome to episode number 2 70 of
category 5 technology TV great to see
you Tuesday the twentieth of November
2012 Wow time flies does you been oh not
too shabby yeah and you in a while I'm
doing pretty good Robbie's forgotten to
shave just keep him warm up in these
Canadian winters let's get snow next
week so I gotta be ready for it about
time this is like my face ma you know
like legs like ear muffs just kind of
moved to my face doesn't make it any
less endures it just makes me warmer and
what do you think what do you think the
face mouth what's new um you know not a
heck of a lot I shina think of when I
was here last and then I remembered it
was gates right before I left to go to
Winnipeg yes so that was like only a
month ago I say only but I mean it seems
like it was so long ago at home yeah but
keeping watch other than that you know
nothing yeah it was fun yeah saw the
parentals yeah give high fives and stuff
awesome a good friend of the year that's
it yeah all right hey a chatroom nice to
see everybody I see pires rock and a
Jameson 55 79 drumstick not read Stang
hey it's nice to see you treestand likes
the beard well he has to say nice things
really does I me knows I made mean
things can you say to Robbie when it's
robbie show I mean when you're a genuine
a genuinely nice person and not like me
okay I got you hello to John as well
good to see you in the chat room join us
in the chat room its category 5 on
freenode or join us said just through
our website category five dot TV lots of
exciting stuff coming up tonight we're
gonna be looking at how to create an
awesome presentation doesn't matter if
you're on Mac Windows Linux any a grip
you know anything that supports flash
you will be able to do this okay so
stick around that's gonna be really
really exciting what do you got 200 I
have so many cool things would you like
to hear them I would let's go
come up in the newsroom later folks XBMC
12 point 0 will have improved HD sound
live TV mpv our capabilities that Robbie
has been waiting for this wat fast
internet move to Kansas okay trying to
book the family to come visit for
Christmas let's hope you're not running
Android 4.2 jellybean a computer from
the 50s which still works is going on
display in the National Museum of
computing Wow stick around these stories
are coming up a later in the show they
truly don't make them like they used to
do they no no I just thinking that too
like running from the 50s an item and
these days everyone's like maybe your
computer will last three years and put
your like lucky dude your computer so
old yeah antique ated what is the
windows seven ancient get with the time
yeah hey just to mention as well our
mobile site there it is m.com five dot
TV make sure you check that out it is
awesome to be able to use your mobile
device to check out category 5 TV also
we love to receive your postcards and
krista this is your first time seeing
the postcard wall but those of you who
are watching from home on taxipass you
can actually see we've got a fair number
of postcards that have come in and we
really appreciate receiving those I'm
looking up there and I see illinois USA
Lodi in Finland Rochester New York I see
Asia yeah st. Paul we've got Australia
up here that I'm just looking at the
wall here so we would love to receive
your postcard just to say hello you can
do that by mailing and all that krista
say it's got such a sweet tone to your
voice always say such nice things you
can send your postcards to category 5
technology TV that's at p.o box 29 009
Barrie Ontario and Canada l4n 7w 7
thanks Krista no problem
so we going to take a quick break don't
forget we have your viewer questions
coming up a little bit later on the show
we're playing around with a little bit
of a change in our format because people
have seemed to really enjoy the fact
that we've been doing the features off
the top of the show so we're going to be
talking about presentations shortly
after the break and then we're gonna
have your viewer questions a little
later on if we have time I might have
some prizes for you as well so stick
around don't go anywhere we'll be right
back at eco alkalines we believe you
should be able to trust your batteries
not just here but here here and here but
with one exception you should also be
able to trust your batteries here Eco
alkalines of the world's first and only
certified carbon neutral battery
manufactured to the highest standards of
recycling and quality without any trace
amounts of harmful chemicals like
mercury lead or cadmium eco alkalines
provide performance the rivals leading
national alkaline battery brands at a
comparable price find out more about the
Eco alkalines difference Eco alkalines
calm this is category 5 technology TV
i'm your host Robbie Ferguson I'm
crystals I almost forgot I was
distracted no just captain he would have
easily look a squirrel shiny I want to
show you something that I thought was
really really cool something that could
go on your Christmas list yeah mm-hmm
chapter 7 why didn't they think about
this before it seems like one of those
things that they should have thought
about before I don't know enlighten us
well what is it what is it this is an
mp3 player that plugs into the lighter
socket in your car it has a built-in
transmitter mm-hmm so you set the
frequency right and tune it in on your
mmm you act like you've seen this before
I've seen something like I actually own
something like this before yeah not this
one just find out this fan is way cooler
it's no it's probably mine was about two
dollars but it really the same they
they're incredible because you just plug
it in and then you stick an SD card in
here the reason that i was looking at
this not as fancy okay okay oh that's
take an SD card 16 gigabytes oh yeah no
actually it's not HD it's not a sdhc so
EST so it maximum two gigs possibly four
but it sticks in this I'd their plugs
into the lighter so there's no bad
this is the problem that I've had with
the mp3 player in the car always having
to change triple-a batteries it always
dies when you're on a road trip
guaranteed I just thought it was a
really really cool thing but check this
out also a USB port so you can plug in a
USB flash drive loaded up with mp3s that
is cool to go that's way cooler than one
I have I'm anything else I can get a box
input I'll trade you it's pretty neat
though and it remembers where you were
because what one of the things that we
were trying to accomplish in our car is
that there's not enough Christmas music
on the radio the kids love it I let me
say that now wait till the 24th odisa
yes yeah then you don't mind but so
recording internet radio to mp3 using
stream raipur very cool thing to be able
to do and it just saves like one big
long massive file so it's like four
hours of music so the old mp3 player
would stop and turn off the mp3 player
and then when you press play again it
starts back at the beginning of the
tracks this thing doesn't it's it
remembers where you were so it's pretty
cool if anyone you know i'll post links
if i find some for international ways to
purchase such a device i'll post them in
the show notes for episode number 2 70
but that was just kind of this pain claw
meat little fine for a cheap little
device that gives you some cool
functionality in the car our car just so
you know still has a cassette deck oh
way cool like like i'm talking like
Aereo cassettes like almost back there
with eight tracks mm-hmm that's pretty
cool yeah so this was a good friend good
upgrade good upgrade fancy dancy
would you like to learn about
presentation would I have you ever been
in a situation where you maybe it's a
customer the customer's always they see
and that's the how's that for
generalization but every customer always
does this everywhere always they want it
cheap and they want it to be amazing
animated presentation you know whatever
there's been times when I've really
wanted to be able to make a good
presentation I'm not that gifted at the
graphical end of things so PowerPoint or
in my case I use impress which is a free
alternative I'll post links in the show
notes but being able to create something
like you see the professionally done one
day you know the ones that I'm talking
about we're going to learn how to do
that tonight first we're going to kick
it off with a little bit of a cartoon an
actual powtoon this is created on the
software that we're going to be showing
you tonight and so stick around we're
gonna show you how this is all huh so
you know what it's like when you want to
impress your clients with an amazing
presentation you take your graphs add
some clipart and spice the whole thing
up with some fancy transitions but
somehow it doesn't always have the
desired effect so one day you come
across one of those super cool
promotional cartoons and you think
yourself Wow something like that would
definitely catch my clients attention
but then you find out that it costs like
a gazillion bucks to make so you start
scouring the web for a tool that can
create extraordinary presentations for
free it's just that nothing out there is
just quite the thing you're looking for
this tool just moves pictures around and
this one swivels so much you get seasick
and to operate this one you have to be a
rocket scientist wouldn't it be cool
that there was a tool that allows you to
create professional-looking animated
presentations and cartoon style videos
just by dragging and dropping stuff onto
a page well now there is powtoon is a
new tool that is so simple and intuitive
it allows anyone who ever used
PowerPoint or keynote to easily evolve
their presentation to awesomeness
powtoon contains themes of animated
characters props and cool transitions
which you can just drag and drop onto
your slide and create eye-catching and
fun presentation
that can be presented in person or
turned into animated videos with a click
of a button to be shared on YouTube
Facebook or Twitter now your
presentations will definitely keep your
audience hooked foul tune brings
awesomeness to your presentation created
using powtoon so tonight we're actually
going to take a look at that because you
know this is a skeptic in me says okay
it can't possibly be that easy and that
awesome so let's let's actually take a
look we're gonna actually sign up for a
free account right now at powtoon so
this is powtoon com t 00 n and you see
the sign up for free button there and
you'll see that there are commercial
packages that you can get to remove
advertising and things like that but in
order to get started you don't need
those you can sign up for free if you're
an educator click on this link right
here and this is going to give you
access to to their educator package and
it's it's substantially cheaper and it
will help you to be able to use this
stuff in in school you know if you want
to show your students and things so now
let's sign up for a free account really
really quick easy signup process just
enter my name and she was my username
there I'll just put in category 5 used
my email address and easy breezy
throwing a password couldn't get much
easier than this who am i what do i do I
want to go with like professor we'll
just go other cuz TV show host isn't in
there well it's sad I know so let's go
for it all right there we go it sent me
an email so let's just check what it
says there we go
all I got to do is click there to
activate so see what there is to it
brilliant
for some reason it just frozen up Mike
my video there playback but I am in and
activated let's take a look there we go
so the first thing that I see is this
screen that is my playground so now
anytime I go to powtoon now that i'm
logged in it loads up my playground give
it a try cool check it out once I've
clicked on start I can choose either
presentation mode which is to create a
slideshow where I have to actually
advance the slides or I can select movie
mode so it's going to create if it's
gonna yeah you're going to set the timer
on each slide and then it's going to
proceed to the next timer so because of
the nature of what we do i'm going to go
with movie mode and let's give it a name
we'll call this so what we're going to
actually do tonight we're going to
pretend that we're a computer shop i
think it would be fun to pretend that
we're creating an ad to put up on
YouTube for our little computer shop out
here and Barry so we're going to
actually take that concept and put
together some kind of a spot here so
we're going to call this my computer
shop add number one check it out my
computer shop okay now we're going to
just go with no thanks let's just create
we're not going to use a predefined
style and now let's open that up i'm
going to go edit and now this is the
powtoon interface well it's right up in
your web browser so i'm just using
chrome here google chrome and there we
have our starting template so the first
thing that I like to do down over on the
bottom right here now I'm going to just
going to reload my cursor so that you
can actually see my mouse cursor here
there we go you should be able to see
that now on the screen okay so down here
on the bottom right there is an option
to change your background so first thing
I want to do is just click on one of
those and I can set that up however I
like so now here we've got our
characters are text anything that we
want to put in we're starting with our
first slide you'll see on the left hand
side
here we're on our first slide there is
only one and we're going to grab a
really frustrated looking guy and just
wrap it onto our canvas resize it
however I like let's add some text say
frustrated with your computer we can
resize that just like you would expect
change the text up here change the color
it's very easy Weiss a wig what you see
is what you get kind of editing grab a
prop here let's throw a nice little
laptop computer in there that he can be
getting frustrated over you see that all
this stuff is coming in absolutely free
for me to be able to use this stuff
because I'm going to be exporting that's
going to have their little a DAT the a
at the end there created with powtoon
you see a computer there I know there
are so I don't there sighs here we go
okay so I've laid a laptop in here so
that's the computer that he's frustrated
with but it's facing the wrong way so
I'm going to hold in my right click
button and I'm going to go flip now it's
facing the correct direction and see ya
so now let's work on so we want to
actually create transitions make it so
that thing's kind of pop in and they
just all of a sudden appear on the
canvas so I've highlighted frustrated
with your computer and I click on this
little icon right there which means it's
going to fade in I'm going to change
that to pop in okay i'm going to change
it to pop out now this man here i'm
going to click on him and i'm going to
click on him i'm going to use a hand so
I'm going to turn on hand and I'm going
to go left so a hand is actually going
to come in and move him from the right
hand side to the left hand side then
we're going to do the same on the right
so that this is the way that it ends
we're going to use that hand effect
again I'm going to drag the timeline
just a little bit because you saw what
was happening there is that he was
extending beyond the end so there was no
transition effect so so far if i push
play
that's what I have so far that's pretty
neat pretty neat yeah cool I so what I
want to do is I want to stop that laptop
from popping and I want it to look like
it's coming in with him so we're going
to change that to move left we're not
going to use a hand because that would
create a second hand so now if the
timing is correct which is not it starts
too late so now what we're going to do
is we're going to click on that laptop
we're going to start it earlier and this
really easy to use timeline let's see
that there we go that's quite a bit
better so the slide is long you know so
if we're going to voice this we'd be
frustrated with your computer so what we
can do is over here on the right-hand
side I'm going to push the minus button
and we're going to shrink things down to
about five seconds long so now again
I've broken my transition so I'm just
going to shrink those a little bit the
right hand side of each item that each
element there we go so now it looks like
this oh did something we're there with
my laptop let's see we'll fix that okay
so the timing is a bit better let's fix
the laptop so hmm what did you do what
did I do apparently I broke the laptop
this easy peasy it's not that master
well it's just you it's you that's
broken I know I did I literally broke
the laptop window got it to go over
there it's so easy to use though i mean
i can i can easily highlight and delete
and drag and drop and right-click and
flip and you know it's easy breezy sorry
I've very ironic to the situation it's a
laptop that's cause any pain yeah
they're okay beautiful whatever did you
see where I I don't know if it's if it
matters but it is in betta there there
could be the cajun a little glitch but
that could have also been very much me
but there we go okay so there's our
first slide frustrated with your
computer boom get them out of there
you now up here we're gonna create our
next slide nice and easy so grab a
happier looking dude there we go he's
happy scale that out with great
hairstyle love the hair I know guys with
that hair and see all I'm doing is I'm
grabbing props I'm grabbing characters
grabbing words this particular word 1
i've gotten it's got a kind of a scaling
effect kind of flying in effect so now
if i edit this ha me that actually shows
you it's great in the box here exactly
what you're gonna be seen and let's
we'll just leave that as black text
looks good call us let's make it big so
now for this slide so far oh just like
that
so we want to give our contact
information our company information some
kind of tag line for a computer shop now
right here we go
shorten this slide down again see how
easy it is to manipulate the way I'm
just kind of watching it all right now I
just look just to be able to like drag
and drop so simple why was it never this
symbol to create these kind of amazing
presentations it's always you know with
using PowerPoint and using a PowerPoint
equivalent software it's really really
difficult this is not I mean so I'm
going to do the hand effect again this
time I'm going to go up now I'm going to
use the hand again by checking it it is
so that it's no longer crossed off and
then go down so now when I run this
slide there's the hand moves it in we'll
fix your system fast call us and then
next slide let's have our guy we can
pick any one of these I'd like to have
one where he's actually hopefully
there's one where he's sitting at a
computer where's a guy kind of reclining
oh yeah laying hooks on it playing
guitar oh look at that there's one where
they're sitting on a laptop perfect so
you can see you can go through and and
just pick something that that suits you
and there are many many different styles
up here which will very quickly glance
that as well so grab our text will say
serving very and area we'll just throw
that up here here we're very very close
to having a presentation that you might
pay to three thousand dollars to have
produced mm-hmm and it's ready to go out
of the box so 555 555 555 WWL our
website is awesome one two three calm
his email address unfortunately wraps to
the other to the second line of the it's
one of those addresses one of those
yeah yeah i just figured i got to think
of something that's probably not out
there cuz people are gonna click on it
okay there we go and if that worked out
really really quickly serving the bear
berryann area brings in the phone number
he knows how i brought the hand in there
there we go takes it away yeah and then
we can fade everything out just by
manipulating the timeline here so that
see what happens there there's enough
time now to ten seconds that it can fade
out so now if i press play there we go
excellent so now using your microphone
you're going to record an overdub so
you'll press play all up at the top left
and you'll be able to record yourself
saying your script so be prepared and
then all you going to do is just click
on the import button up here and that's
actually going to import the audio file
so save as an mp3 you're going to be
able to place your audio file on the
timeline it's going to automatically
start at the beginning and play all the
way through so time it with your with
your slides so let's press play all and
see how this turned out are you
frustrated with your computer we're
gonna fix your system fast call us today
serving Barry and the surrounding areas
visit our website is awesome 123 calm or
call 555 555 555 and that's all there is
to it yeah save your work always save
your work there it is right up at the
top here's where things get really fun
really exciting if that wasn't enough
for you check this out share export to
youtube directly or save an HD video
file Wow remember we're in movie mode so
and I've got zoom on here not sure if I
can get out of it there we go so I can
actually say with a free account i get
10 free exports it's going to come with
branding so that means it's going to
have their logo on it but again you can
subscribe to a an affordable account if
you decide that hey this is something
I'm going to actually use perf a right
right if you're going to be using it for
your company you can choose to do that
and you might you might I mean it's it's
super cool but to be able to do it for
free means that you as a home user or
perhaps a student even a teacher if you
want to just give it a try but then do
check out you know there are special
packages specifically for for each level
of user but I think that's really really
cool it's called pow toon spelled p 0 WT
00 n dot com check it out I tell them
the category 5 sentía and just give that
a go I mean to be able to throw those
together so quickly right that was
actually really quick for we just
produce off the fly that I've been
twenty second commercial and took you
know what about ten minutes with
explaining everything and showing you
how it's done really really simple i
told you i would show you so i will just
really really briefly show you and I
want you to play around with this give
it a try but you'll see up here that you
can actually choose different styles so
if I wanted to use this guy for example
I've got these other kinds of characters
as well that I can use we've got these
kinds of things you know those kinds of
tags like that you can bring them in
with the hand again and it looks really
cool and there's even you know technical
theme where you can throw in things that
look very very technical fly those in
pop them in add sound effects whatever
you want to do so there's really no end
to what you can do I mean be creative
with it it's really really easy to use
and I'd recommend you check it out very
cool we're using it on Linux today
through google chrome it is a flash
program so you can see that it's running
on my system under flash 11.5 so give it
a try powtoon calm very cool I'm
impressed impressed no pun intended
this is category 5 technology TV thanks
for joining us tonight if you check that
out make sure you you know even send us
a link by email we'd love to see what
what you end up coming up with on pouch
in you'll find our website at triple w
category five dot TV thanks for joining
us tonight what do you think I don't
know what am i what am I supposed to
think what's the appropriate thing to
say right now uh well we can jump into
the news if you like probably if I like
Hinton's yeah you know just so
discombobulated with us all you know
feature at the beginning and then throws
the offing we've been doing it the same
way for so long I know here we are it's
very very different that's okay we'll
get used to things mm-hmm so people here
the top stories in the category 5 got TV
news room the XBMC development team has
released the first beta a virgin 12 of
its open source media center software
code named Frodo after the
user name of one of the projects now
retired founders XBMC 12 point oh will
be a major update to the media player
application will include a completely
rewritten audio subsystem live TV and
PVR support and various other
enhancements the new audio engine AE
audio sub system which was first merged
into XBMC in at the end of may bring
support for high-definition surround
sound audio he also supports high
quality 24-bit and floating-point audio
add up to 384 thousand Hertz among the
most anticipated new XBMC features is
the ability to watch and record live TV
and PVR DVR capabilities nice wowza
google has begun to connect us homes in
Kansas City to superfast broadband
offering residents speeds up to one
gigabyte per second one gigabit sorry
one gig one gigabit is fast enough why
not go for a gigabyte might as well why
not all it takes is a slip of the tongue
people living in the fiber hood area of
Hanover Heights are among the first to
use this service there are reporting
speeds of up to 700 megabits per second
wow the product poses a challenge to
establish cable companies which
typically charge more money with slower
connections google says it hopes its
package will persuade people to spend
longer on the web and try out new
services Oh more coach potatoes you know
okay but could you imagine what we could
do with 700 megabits a second everything
you're talking about like 1,000,000,000
windows open nobody likes climbing video
we do what we do with 2 megabits per
second mm-hmm up if you had 700 megabits
a second I'm talking 1080p true 1920 x
1080 streaming that's what I'd be doing
down in Kansas yeah what happen is one
of them on tonight and maybe didn't want
like the flood of people writing I don't
know how to we still don't even maybe
longer fiber here maybe Kansas isn't a
high internet usage air
yeah so they're trying to like lure them
in with gigabit speed some will you
subscribe to the internet if you we give
you the fastest in the world possible
around like think about it convince them
maybe we have yours from Kansas do you
mean to tell me I can download an entire
season of So You Think You Can Dance in
three seconds you watch so you can think
you can dance so you did you can dance
what and now the season's over well no
this season was really disappointing to
me but that's a whole other topic should
blog we won't i decide i'm in the new
season of So You Think You Can Dance you
don't need to alright come on back to
the news while the latest version of the
android operating system has resulted in
the month of December disappearing from
a nap for storing information about
contacts mm-hmm the flaw affects the
People app which is the default app for
keeping contact information on Android
devices the People app calendar goes
from November 2012 straight to January
2013 huh and I've in previous years to
as I've seen on these screenshots this
one is 2011 2012 2013 oops crazy other
Google calendars are unaffected by the
flaw you who needs December who do you
imagine if you're trying to plan
something out and that's the app that
you use that's an especially since
December is like your your busiest month
when it comes to like Christmas party
I've work in retail and i just got an
android phone what do i do that like
this over as you know it oh the world's
oldest original working digital computer
is going on display at the national
museum of computing in buckinghamshire
buckingham sure sure sure the witch yep
the witch as the machine is known has
been restored to clattering and flashing
life in a three-year effort in its
heyday in the 1950s the machine was the
workhorse of the uk's atomic you know
it's rude when you giggle i just loved
it that had a heyday that machine there
had a heyday well everyone has its fine
I mean I'm sure you get a choice of
words yeah that's amazing I can see the
transistors it's not making fun of it
hope things are gonna are awesome tastes
like a happy nice so hello gonna ignore
Ralphie and continue with the news
that's not okay with everybody so ah the
machine was the workhorse of the UK's
Atomic Energy Research Program a happy
accident led to its discovery in a
municipal storeroom where it had
languished for 15 years the restoration
effort was led by a conservationist
delwyn Holroyd who said it was pretty
dirty when the machine first arrived at
Bletchley remarkably he said it had not
suffered too much physical damage and
the restoration team had been at pains
to replace as little as possible the
vast majority of the parts of the
machine including it's 480 relays in 828
decadron tubes are entirely original he
said fascinating that's amazing I know
this thing is slow to like I had read
that it we can imagine I don't know if
your news story mention it but it took
ten seconds to process a single
mathematical multiplication like i'm
talking like ok two times two is hope
you really don't need the answer like
really quick hmm it's not that
surprising though like sink back for
think back to computers even just 10
years ago though like what was I know
it's amazing and how slow they were
compared to now and you think of a
computer like that's 50 years old yeah
of course it's slow that's really slow
really really slow like they could have
paid some guy to do that really easily
what's an ad I suppose he had two starts
to hide yeah like the multiplication and
stuff but that's really they just hire a
really smart person is that you're
saying they should I could do
multiplication a lot faster than one
piece of mathematics in every 10 seconds
well maybe it was a really because it
doesn't get tired they can run on 24 7
that must be it yeah doesn't he just
leave you need to eat for 50 years you
put this thing away for 15 years
you can bring it back and it still works
amazing well if you would like you can
get the full story about this news story
and the rest at category 5 TV / newsroom
the category 5 TV news room is research
by Roy WH with contributions fri from
our community of viewers if you have a
noose way that you think is worthy of
on-air mention email us at news room at
category 5 TV from the category 5 TV
news room I'm crystals Krista thank you
so much anytime yeah this is category 5
technology TV our website is triple w
category five dot TV so nice to have you
here and I hope you're enjoying yourself
tonight get your questions in we'd love
to receive your viewer questions just
before we get into your questions
tonight just a quick mention that we
have a one month free trial of netflix
for you this is a special arrangement
that we have with netflix and if you go
for that cat five dot TV / netflix are
going to get a full month free and
they're also going to throw a little bit
in the pot to help support category 5
technology TV as well so by subscribing
to netflix you're in fact helping to
support the show that you love so much
mm-hmm if you don't have netflix already
why not why not what's your problem free
for a month if somebody was talking to
me and say well I don't know that I
really want it that's why you get it
free for a month so you get it get a
month to go you try it and then you
realize that yes you do want it exactly
and then it's only eight dollars you
don't you just cancel yeah at eight
bucks like yeah me fine an eerie couch
come on also tonight show is brought to
you in part by quarter e electric you
can find them at quarter eee electric
com please check them out there the
official electrical contractor of
category 5 technology TV if you need any
work done in bury the surrounding area
anywhere pretty much in central Ontario
and anywhere in between check them out
quarter electric com fantastic guys
great yeah right so you got some
questions I'm sure by this time it
looked like I've lodged in my shins
fantastic mm-hmm so let's jump right in
we have our first question here from
Dennis Kelly he says hey dennis is there
program to control the USB port turn it
off and on receive input a USB a program
for linux well linux USB support is is
at the kernel level so there are a
couple of different things that you
could do now if you were watching
category 5 technology TV episode number
2 68 which was november six just couple
weeks ago we looked at a product called
endpoint protector from endpoint
protector dot CA now from a security
standpoint that's a great way to set
things up and i'll let you in on a
little secret there is we have access to
10 user client licenses so if you want
to give it a try let me know i'll see if
i can hook yeah but that is a software
item like a client that installs on your
desktops and connects to a centralized
server or a virtual server however you
have it set up and you can restrict USB
access it's built into it but you can
also monitor if people are transferring
files over USB that said if you don't
want to go that route then you can look
at disabling USB access in the colonel i
guess it's going to be problematic if
you have a USB keyboard a mouse you
might have to go with something like ps2
if that's the case i'm going to just
quickly bring up a website for you
actually nix craft put together a nice
tutorial for you so cat five dot TV / no
USB and on that site this particular one
is laying out some of the options that
you can go with first one of course is
to disable the USB storage drivers so
that when you plug in because here's the
thing when and this is probably a good
solution because then you can get away
with still continuing to use USB
keyboard and mouse because it's only the
storage driver because when you plug in
see here's here's the funny thing way
back when it used to be hard on Linux
because you plug in a device and you
have to mount it you have to figure out
how to get it to work right now you plug
it in it works so you're having the
exact opposite problem where you want it
to not work when someone plugs it into
you actually now you're having to create
the opposite workaround basically when
you plug in
vice modprobe says oh look there's a new
USB device what is it let's activate it
boom done right it is really nice really
really nice and you know USB flash
drives we've got card readers in all of
our systems here very very handy so what
you can do is follow the first commands
there and I'm gonna post a link for you
in the show notes of episode number 27 d
but this basically tells it to to ignore
USB storage devices remove USB storage
driver the next suggestion that they
make there is to disable it in your bios
or better yet just add the no USB
command to your grub line to boot your
kernel and that's going to actually
disable USB support at grub but that way
again is going to disable your keyboard
if it's USB it's gonna be all USB things
right it's a little inconvenient yeah
but it can be handy if you're in an
environment where you don't want people
to be able to plug in USB flash games
that's true and you can always re reboot
press e on the grub line and remove that
line so it's not a perfect security
solution but so a couple of ideas there
for you anyways it's cat five dot TV /
no USB and hopefully that points you in
the right direction great article from
them anyways good good good good here's
another question from dear boy 58 says
is it possible make a show about debian
sid debian says it's says is unstable
and not up to date but for my 6 month
experience on debian i don't say that i
had two years experience on arch linux
and i prefer a lot more debian sid with
arch linux i was tired every two or
three month rebuild um I said to rebuild
our system install the operating system
everything because it's an update scrap
on his system I made a little video on
youtube on debian sid if you want to
look at it here's the links ok i'll
check it out and and i'll certainly be
happy to post a link to that in the show
notes as well so dear boy 58 okay first
of all debian is a linux distribution
and Sid is kind of the third one down
the road down the line when it comes to
stability debian is very very
interesting because as opposed to you
know like windows and ubuntu and mac OS
they quite often you know it's it's like
major releases so windows 7 windows 8
ubuntu 12.04 ubuntu 12.04 you to
reinstall your operating system our
linux debian on the other hand takes
kind of a trickle-down effect kind of
stance on things so you install debian
stable and then there's debian testing
and there's debian sid which is unstable
so new applications come in to sid they
trickle down the line once they have
been tested a little bit they go into
testing and then they go into stable
once they're considered to be stable so
your computer's constantly getting the
latest updates but only after they've
been tested through this kind of
filtering process that's nice so with
debian stable it is that squeeze it's
the you're basically it's a really fully
operating operating system testing means
that they're going to be doing some work
on some of the stuff they may be messing
around with stuff that could break your
system so that when you run an update it
could break something right Sid when
they say unstable just so you understand
their boy 58 they're not saying that it
doesn't work they're saying that there's
a lot of things about it that could
potentially cause harm to your system
one of those is that they're not
maintaining the security patches on Sid
so that means that if a major security
exploit happens that is going to get
patched into stable and possibly testing
but not likely Sid right away because
testing is where that takes place and
below right so Sid is more of its a bit
of an elitist kind of you know it you
can get its bleeding edge you get the
absolute latest stuff because as it
comes out you know the brand new latest
version of everything gets put in the
Sid gets run for a little while and then
if it works and gets moved into testing
and then if they've got all the bugs
worked out then they move it into stable
so it's a process so
stable doesn't have all those bleeding
edge stuff but you know that it's rock
solid and it goes down the line so so
that's what it means yeah hey champ just
watching it a little bit so so yeah
that's that's essentially what that
means so said we could show it on the
air but I wouldn't I wouldn't personally
feel confident in recommending that you
run it because it is something that
you're you're and when I say elite us
there a gamoto I mean you're a bit of a
power user or you you understand when
you install Sid you could potentially
break your system just with a simple
update because something in there could
break something and you understand that
you're taking that risk so it's not
something that you would install on a on
a production system something that I'm
working on at work right makes sense
thank you very much for the question um
he also says it's a very good show and
he can't wait for the next week Thanks
ah is a question from Lane Lane says
I've been tried using resync to remove
the source file after copying the
original to another computer is there a
way to hide the source file and put in a
placeholder a greyed out instead of
deleting it on the source computer the
idea is to have our ideas to create a
situation like ms briefcase i got to
rsync is a tool to synchronize tonight
biosystems yeah I glanced over it's an
interesting way of looking at our sink
because you can you can just have it
sink the whole file system it sounds to
me like you're wanting to clear the
space that the local copy is using which
I'd want to know more about the scenario
but I would approach that as perhaps a
bash cell shell script you'd want to
create something that verifies the data
has been correctly written and then
moves the source files out to another
folder or as you say renames them but
then you're getting into some issues
with your rsync then because it might
try to
sink the renamed files so be interested
in knowing more about why you want to go
about it that way is it to free up space
on the debt on the source so you're
moving stuff rather than backing up
stuff because to me that would make a
lot of sense because I want our sink to
back up my stuff to a remote server it's
not going to do it over and over again
because our sink is designed this what's
so neat about it it checks the files
before it does the backup and it says
okay well this one hasn't changed since
the last time i did a sink oh that's
neat so but not God to add it up I'm
only going to backup the files that have
changed or the files that have been
newly created or in some cases with with
some of the variables that you'll choose
on the command line it may delete files
from the local copy if they're from the
remote copy if they've been deleted on
the local machine which can be dangerous
if you're not careful so I would want to
know more but definitely a bash script
is going to be required in a case like
that because you're doing some very
specific stuff that that our sink itself
is not quite meant to do similarly
similar to our sink is our diff which is
another script that does what I was
saying about backing up just what has
changed but instead of backing up whole
files it backs up only the bits that
have changed which is interesting when
you get into large files so you know you
get a let's say you've got a spreadsheet
that's huge I don't know that the
spreadsheet is a good example but a text
file is a good example where you know if
it's a hundred make text file just for
the sake of a crazy argument and you
change one word mm-hmm our sink will
then re-upload the whole 100 Meg's
that's great but our diff will only move
the one word ah as a diff change that
makes sense so our diff is a good one to
look at if your file system support it
yeah kind of neat a gamoto was wondering
with it with your stylus here on the
walk home for the integrals for what are
you drawing Oh secrets yeah this is how
she works folks Robbie's beard I'm
trying to draw it was headed out as a
Christmas card to yell ah any questions
in Christa's watching for them live at
category five dot TV well here is a
question from uh David didn't
Minneapolis says hello Robbie and
co-host hello I've watched a lot of the
shows I like you are having guests on to
talk about many great topics cheers I
was wondering if we might be able to
have a segment on terminal tips each
week I bring this up because I've
noticed that when there are no emails or
questions to answer the show loses my
interest a little and thought mine too
it went to I get so bored at that point
he actually just kind of no questions
sometimes gets up and leaves and watches
TV and then the co-host is like you're
going wow no I hear ya I hear it and we
try to keep a flow to the show we're
live so that's that's how it goes
sometimes we certainly try to keep the
flow like sometimes when I'm angry at
Robbie and I just want to talk to him
there's no witty banter so it's a little
to say crystal looks angry Krista looks
like she's not even paying attention to
him and she's like yeah I'm just really
i'm just angry at Robbie I also says I
for one would like to see more in the
way of how to's on the show how to
navigate or set up things some tips on
changing settings within within Linux
beyond that maybe some links to watch or
read on your show we'd love to David
thank you so much for the email you
start your email by saying you love how
we've been having some guests on the
show lately and we absolutely love doing
that there there are we have different
formats to the show so when we have
guests we pretty much have an interview
and we look at their product or whatever
it is that that we're talking to them
about and then we have your viewer
questions and whatever other things that
we want to get into on the other hand
like tonight is a good example where
we're giving you a presentation of
something and giving you a bit of a
tutorial on how it works because we
don't have a guest tonight it's a
different format to the show hey so we
have a one hour show to work with so
that's that you know that's how we try
to make it flow so I'm glad you're
enjoying it and we'll certainly take a
look at the
lenox terminal something that I've I
tend to shy away from a little bit
because sometimes you know we get mixed
messages here right because some people
say we don't want to see the terminal we
want to see the GUI because the terminal
scares us and makes us think that Linux
is a hard operating system to use but I
can hear him and yeah I use the terminal
a lot so right I'd be happy to show you
some stuff that said I did get a tweet
today but stood out to me and I thought
it was ironic that your question came in
I'm gonna bring this up right now this
comes to us from at mike itt who says
that there's a book from william a shots
junior from linux command org and is the
linux command line so let's let's take a
quick look at that what strikes me is
interesting about this and you're asking
about the command line go to linux
command dot org and when you're there
this is basically a tutorial site all
about the linux commands terminal okay
at the bottom here you'll see the book
if you click on the book sure you can go
to your local library and get it you can
buy it here you can do that but look at
this it's released under Creative
Commons and you can actually download it
as a PDF absolutely free so I'm going to
click on that linux command dot org good
resource for you and there's the book
absolutely free it takes an interesting
approach to the linux terminal so it's
going to take you right through some of
the real basic stuff and then you're
going to be getting into some more
advanced things as well so only reason i
want to show you that one it's often we
love supporting other creative commons
producers but also i think that's a
great resource for you as somebody who's
interested in the linux terminal so
check that out Linux command dot org and
anyone else who's watching who would
like to obtain a free copy of that ebook
pardon me yeah well we have time yes we
have sure we always have time except for
in five minutes from now I have to then
we have no doubt i'd have to say
okay well not that flexible Legos no
this one looks oh no it is a question it
is from mihail hello Robbie I have a
question about Zorin six-core how to
configure doki doki ah my second
question is why do not these games for
linux like windows why are there not
games on Linux like there are and check
out I seriously recommend check out
steam for Linux it's common folks so
we're gonna start seeing some really
sweet games that were previously
unavailable on legs and we're seeing a
push and videos really starting to push
really high graphic performance on Linux
so guess what's coming folks let's take
a quick look and we'll go back to the
first question as well I think it's I
just want to see steam for steam for
Linux itself is in betta yeah steam for
Linux calm is not the official site but
what I wanted to tell you is that
because steam is in betta and it's a
closed betta and there's only a certain
number of people who are allowed to
participate mm-hmm here's a site that
sort of goes into it from a fan
perspective and shows you some of the
things that we can look forward to so we
are looking forward to having some
incredible games available on Linux but
and that's through steam that's just one
platform but there were things i did a
series on video games that are available
through synaptic package manager these
are gems synaptic package manager is a
front end to all your repositories on
linux it's so vast that it's really it's
intimidating you don't know what to
install unless you know what to look for
things like tremulous which is now you
know this incredible game they've
renamed it and and it's astounding as
far as you know if you're into first
person shooters and things like that
there are so many great games that that
you can find for linux I'd be happy to
put together a list so if that's
something that interests you as a viewer
let me know pop it's an email live at
category 5 TV maybe we'll reevaluate the
of gaming on linux and maybe dedicate a
show to that I know Kristen would really
like that there's just funny how excited
you got when you're like okay I'm
excited because steam for Linux this is
like this is something that we've known
has been coming for a long time there's
been rumors right that steam this is a
distribution platform for games that has
previously been on windows and people
love it is now coming to linux it's in
betta it's a real thing it's happening
now it's not speculation so that is very
exciting yes yes we know about the betta
program being hacked and being available
to all and I'm kind of alluding to that
we'll just leave it at that thanks guest
5410 mm-hmm oh you have time for the
first part of his question oh sorry yes
how to configure dokie or is that a more
of a donkey Don whatever dr. okie dokie
you're joking how do you configure all
right ya da key is that is a dock bar
for for lunch now because you're on
Zorin OS though it's already included
because the mac theme uses that in order
to give you that mac look so you can use
the note the zoren look changer which is
an amazing way we've looked at it in
previous show so i don't need to bring
that up but as far as da keys concerned
i mean let's just go into terminal
because we've been asked to use the
terminal a little bit more and let's
type the word doc II and it's as simple
as that ons or no assets already
installed okay so I run it and you'll
see what pops up down at the bottom here
is a Mac dock bar style thing so if we
like that and we want to keep it let's
get rid of the panel that's down here we
can go delete this panel I don't want to
do it because then I'm going to be
without my panel but that's what you
would do is delete the bottom panel and
then you would set it up so the doc II
loads automatically when you turn on
your computer so we go system
administration no system preferences
down and start up applications and we'll
go ad will call this one just for
Christa dorky
the commanding on the other hand is
dokie okay and then we add that so now
it's done it's in there and now it's
going to load at the beginning of you
know when we first turn on our computer
every time but we're going to still have
the gnome panel up at the top which is
cool right so again you need to delete
this one down here delete this panel and
then this will be the only one that's
there so and then you can just drag and
drop things to it you can move things
around you know it's nice and easy it is
what it is it's a dock bar easy to use
all right that's dokey or dorky whatever
mm-hmm cool fantastic hey hey thanks for
being on the show tonight oh it's nice
to come back every once in a while yeah
let's see if draw bot is interested in a
visit to the chat room that would be
pretty cool yeah so what's new way
anything going on business is busy yeah
no time to work is it work as a pretty
busy right now i'll bet ya alia and that
life is pretty slow yeah so that's slow
paced of it good or bad or both yeah
everyone's all excited right now I know
everybody's just getting screaming
excited in the chat room drama goes into
the chat room because I know you're
there cuz i told you at the top of the
show i alluded to the fact that i was
gonna be giving something away and I
told you to log into the chat room so
for those of you in the chat room let's
see who we got number 18 is Scorpio 55
my man congratulations you tonight my
friend that picked up a copy of ESET
nod32 antivirus version 5 so pop mean
email live at category 5 TV and I will
email you the serial key for that and
you'll be able to activate that on your
window system or keep you safe for
another year a whole year of service
from ESET mm-hmm and it works great
fantastic it is good software yeah if i
have any any windows system they've got
it's got to have you set on it I mean
we're a lot safer on the linux systems
and you on your mac but yeah let's go
save and i have a mac and i noticed that
did pick up you actually a handful of
set on your man
as well and and normally you're not
worried about it because no max can't
get viruses not true um but yeah it did
actually pick up like a about a handful
of things but things I would have ever
noticed it so it's good always meant to
do congratulations Scorpio 55 all you
got to do is just again email live at
category 5 TV just so that we can reply
back with your license information so
have a great week everybody Krista is
back next again next week twice in a row
two times in a row lucky or unlucky I'm
sorry depending on whether you're me or
you yeah lucky she makes fun of me so I
thing I make fun of you oh that's our
thing you leave after the show and cry I
didn't realize that that was our thing I
just thought that you're being I always
feel so much better about myself a fob
load all the hatred and anger have a
great week Krista I do enjoy how to hear
so thanks for being here thanks for
having me you guys everybody
we hope you enjoy the show category five
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category five
TD and find out when you can watch live
and interact in the community chat room
category five is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
