hello welcome to new every day this is
episode number 155 my name is Lawrence
Cruz Jeff Weston and today we are going
to tackle a very simple question what is
truth stay tuned for the answer this is
new every day
with Jeff Weston and Lawrence Cruz
welcome to do everyday episode 155 I'm
Geoff Weston and I'm Laurence Cruz I'll
tell you what summer is here man hold on
is I'm enjoying having the nice bear
arms catching some Sun Oh clear up I'm a
redhead so hanging out in the shade
completely away from the side but for
those of you are watching in the North
Pole we understand that you may be
enjoying the sunshine too with a little
different temperature however it's nice
and warm and sunny where we are and I'll
take it exactly all right if you just
catching you every day for the first
time maybe you've been a longtime viewer
and you're going hey you know I catch
you guys on Facebook every week but is
there another way yes there is you can
catch up on demand
Cody Plex Roku on our website new
everyday TV can catch us on YouTube
Facebook like we're out there we make it
easy to find the show so catch past
episodes this is season four like I said
episode 155 so there's a hundred and
fifty four episodes before lots of lots
of good content you can check it out
yeah lots of ways to check out the show
that was six that you mentioned I don't
know did you mention cable TV oh no I
did not
so that would be at least seven that's
right there you have it so yeah so yeah
we are on kvv b TV in southern
california that's television for the
high desert so for anybody who checks
out there and watches us glad to have
you and let us know where you're
watching from I know we've got viewers
from all over the world but just send us
an email comment on any of our feeds and
let us know where you're from and what
you like about the show and maybe you've
got a topic you'd love for us to cover
absolutely we welcome your comments this
is exciting for us we're just thrilled
to to be here with you each week and we
do welcome what you've got to say and
we're looking forward to those comments
indeed now speaking of what we've got to
say this week we're going to talk about
truth what is truth wow that's a
million-dollar question
absolutely and it should be a fairly
simple one as you what truth is right
but as we're you know kind of doing some
research into this one it became very
abundantly clear to me that there are
two types of truth in this world Wow
there is
absolute truth and then there is
relative truth and so I jumped right
into the dictionary okay well what is
the definition of truth and so the
merriam-webster dictionary defines truth
is a judgment proposition or idea that
is true or accepted as true and that
blew my mind last part except it is true
okay so what's your source here again
let's say merriam-webster dictionary
okay like the dictionary that everybody
goes to I mean you say pick a dictionary
that's merrier what's wrong that's right
so the definition of truth and
merriam-webster is a subjective one so
whatever is true or accepted to be true
truth so even therefore by the
definition of truth the definition can
change and that makes it true okay that
you talk about change that's not how I
ever perceived truth to be no truth was
like something concrete it didn't move
like okay I've heard your opinion I've
heard my opinion I'm tired of my opinion
let's finally get to the truth right and
now you did in your research you learned
that even the dictionary is saying
that's subjective
that's right and the definition itself
can change oh my goodness
like if the definition of truth that our
world lives by is subjective and can
change then what is truth and so then
it's this rabbit hole that you've got to
start going down and to figure out what
is truth and so that's what we're going
to cover today and there was a beautiful
beautiful way of figuring out truth that
absolutely blew the doors wide open for
me and so on your screen at the bottom
you're going to see three circles and
they're different colors this is a
colorblind test and so with these
circles that you see one of them has a
number I know which one it is okay
question is can you see the number if
you're colorblind you're not going to be
able to see where it is now the reality
is interesting the actual truth to this
scenario is that the circle on my right
your
right here that has the number seven
that is the actual truth of this
colorblind test can use it the number is
seven these other two it's not there and
so if you're colorblind you can't see it
and so your perception of truth if
you're colorblind is that there is no
number and for you that's real and
you're saying I don't see a number there
is no number what are you talking about
the reality for you is that there's no
number you could hook up a lie detector
tell me truthfully is there a number
there is no number and they'd say is he
telling the truth
he's absolutely telling the truth
correct and yet somebody else looking at
the exact same picture the image would
say oh yes there is a number is he lying
oh he's telling the truth right so now
we've got two elements of truth but it
really comes down to what is the
absolute truth and the absolute truth is
that there is a seven in that color
blind test and so just because you can't
see it and you can't realize it doesn't
mean that it's not true and so I had to
wrap my mind around that idea that there
is truth within people that for them is
very real but it may not be the right
truth oh sorry no I was just gonna say
and then that made me realize now I
understand why merriam-webster says that
it's it's what's true or accepted as
truth okay I won't boy that's that's
I'll tell you what friend I just wonder
what are you thinking do you think
there's truth like is this crazy this is
quite a concept and again our source
here is the dictionary right and it's
not saying this truth is potentially
subjective or maybe that's not what they
mean what does the definition mean what
a great topic for sure yeah I'll tell
you what in my life I remember living
certain ways and saying no this is what
I know this is what I believe and I
thought I had all the facts right and
then I learned something else and kind
of went oh that changes everything
hmm and here it was that I was acting on
what I knew to be the truth
because what I understood was actually
limited right so there's that element to
that's right which is almost not quite
even a little different than what you're
saying yeah for truth wow what a great
question yeah and so with this whole
idea how do we know what real truth is
and there you go you've got the relative
truth
you've got absolute truth and so with
that I'm going again doing some more
studying and research into this I looked
up okay what are some I pull that
thought this the thorah hello thesaurus
and I looked up absolute and relative to
see what words came out and totally blew
my mind I want to pull this out here
because it was it was absolutely great
so absolute these are some other words
in the thesaurus pure whole final
complete eternal these are other words
you can use for absolute relative
contingent dependent conditional
approximate mere I'm going okay if
that's absolute truth versus relative
truth that speaks volumes as to how the
world lives and we live in a society
that has their own view of truth and I
had to really challenge myself to
understand why is that why is it that
what I believe to be true is not what
society believes to be true necessarily
there are some things that line up but
some things aren't that that don't and
even within the church you can have a
pastor standing up at the front saying
this is what the Bible says it's true
he's saying and somebody in the pews are
going I know it's not because this is
true right so how do you have those
different perspectives oh man
who's right and is it about right or
wrong or is it about perspective would
you like okay okay sorry I digress I
really
okay so but I mean a couple examples and
I realize I'm kind of dominating the
conversation I'm really passionate on
this is good I know like see we've had
some chats about this and I know it's a
subject deep within you it's passionate
go ahead this is great yeah so you know
a couple examples of things where the
definition of truth and society's view
has changed I mean let's talk
historically women aren't allowed to
vote Wow and that was true that was true
that was absolutely true women are not
allowed to vote that's not something
they should ever be able to do women
can't run companies hmm and how much our
society is gone oh my goodness no that's
not correct I mean you go back to the
Bible in Proverbs 31 and there's an
entire chapter about a woman about your
way but why why your well she's not that
all about a woman who is very profitable
in a business venture
so back in Proverbs I mean you've got
David in Solomon's time you've got women
who are working yet for some reason we
have this view within society that no
women can't do this can't do that it's a
man's world but that idea of truth has
changed and now the truth that societal
is bias
yes it's equal opportunity and
rightfully so why should we hold one
person back and so with that idea I'm
going okay so so if everything has
changed what is the real truth how do we
know what the real truth is and if I'm
faced as a Christian with that challenge
of this is what I'm being told but I
don't think that's correct how do I know
what is true we're gonna take a quick
break and we're going to dive right into
that yeah I need you to tell me what the
truth is here please come back
stick around for more from new every day
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official network shirt today count 5 dot
TV slash shirts Jeff you left us hanging
with a multi-million dollar question
here what is truth and I was pleading
for you to come back I'm so glad you did
come on get us back to answering this
question the dictionary suggests that
there's something concrete and then
maybe there's something no there
definitely is also something subjective
and it even makes sense to me as we've
dialogue how that can be the truth
there's God's Word have anything to say
about this absolutely and at the end of
the day that is the ultimate truth is
God's Word what does it say in God's
Word and that if there is nothing that
you take out of this message other than
that is that the truth is in God's Word
okay that's calming isn't it it is it's
for someone who believes like okay for
me it is I like to know that there's
something upon which I can stand Jeff
you and I know it there's people
watching where your world is like the
waves of the sea that are like a raging
storm right life has been good for you
but life has thrown you a curve ball we
were speaking with Shay on an earlier
episode the college intern and her
father developed cancer and all of a
sudden everything in her world was just
like scattered and she didn't really
know dare I say what's true right
going on and if you were there and
something like that is happening you're
facing a situation where everything you
seem to have known that was secure that
security seems to have been gone oh how
terrible it would be to turn on a show
and find yourself watching new every day
and hear people say oh there's no
there's nothing there's nothing that's
solid upon which you can stand oh that
is so not the case absolutely with the
scripture there is not a single topic
you will run into in this world that is
not addressed in the Bible and show some
way shape or form I love that it may not
be this specific of here's my question
and I'm looking for the specific answer
to that it might be that it's a general
answer am i I mean that's just the way
that the scripture is it's it's living
its active it's it's the inspired Word
of God and it's relevant for every
situation you run into and so if you're
living in this world you're gonna run
into situations of what is true what is
not what does the world say and one
example would be sexual promiscuity
mm-hmm we live in a world that says hey
sex is good it feels good do what's good
for you do what's right indulge it live
in it like don't hold back but at the
end of the day we've got scripture all
over the place within the Bible that
says yeah sex is good God made it and it
made it for the confines of marriage
between a man and woman and there's so
many scriptures you can find with that
mm-hmm and so that's an example of the
world's truth versus biblical truth
another one might be self-indulgence and
last week we were talking about you know
everything is permissible well not
everything is beneficial and so we live
in a world that says hey I'm gonna do
what's right for me me that exactly it's
all about me this makes me feel good
this is what I want to do and so
therefore I'm gonna do it and that's
okay that's what the world says that's
what the world's that's what my nature
right wants to say as well like I can
blame a lot of stuff on the world
no sorry I'll come clean that's inside
of me - this says hey so what want to
take care of me myself and I that's very
nice people
okay but at the end of the day what the
Bible says is we're here for the benefit
of others yeah we are here to bring
others to Christ and so if we are living
in a truth mentality of it's all about
me then we are contrary ly living to
what is in the Bible about it's about
bringing others to Christ that's what
our life is for yeah you know I mean
okay let's let's talk Christ the world
says Christ isn't the only way there's
lots of other religions out there what
you say about religion is not what I say
and so therefore we can both have our
views of religion I hate to burst your
bubble that's not what the Bible says
all right you know there's there's
scripture for every situation that you
can run into and so as a Christian you
have to ask yourself how do I know I
mean it and it's quite simple you need
to be diving into the word and you
cannot live a Christian life of truth
without knowing the truth that's in the
scripture so we've got John 8 verse 31
to 32 says to the Jews who had believed
him jesus said if you hold to my
teaching you are really my disciples
then you will know the truth and the
truth will set you free
Wow okay very simple concept who's
speaking
Jesus so if you need if if you want to
be set free you need to know the truth
and the truth is within scripture so
jesus himself said very plainly I am the
way okay the way to who the father in
heaven very clear not wavering wasn't
demanding didn't say to everybody come
here I'm gonna put you in headlock and
make you believe it no he just made a
very forthright statement Jesus did said
I am the way he said the truth and the
life no one comes to the Father except
through me that's what Jesus said in
John chapter 14
that is pretty straightforward and
crystal-clear
I think wouldn't you say well totally
and that's how the Bible speaks in my
opinion laying down some things about
truth and you're telling me I'm hearing
you say that that life any question we
have in life we can find these answers
in the Bible yeah
and oddly enough in searching this one
of the questions I had was okay God if
your word is true and it makes sense to
me why then do those who aren't
Christians not understand that like why
is it that they can't see the truth
oddly enough it's in the Bible
across the scripture that that just made
me go oh okay it's in second Corinthians
4 verses 3 to 6 and it says and even if
our gospel is veiled it is veiled to
those who are perishing Wow
in whose case the god of this world has
blinded the minds of the unbelieving so
that they might not see the light of the
gospel of the glory of Christ who is the
image of God and when the scripture says
the god of this world we're not talking
about God the Creator we're talking
about the Prince of Darkness Satan and
it was veiled their eyes blinded them
from the truth and so at the end of the
day that's why they don't see the truth
mmm because they don't believe Christ
God the god of this world Satan has
blinded them and they don't hear it and
so we know the truth they don't see the
truth how do we get them to see the
truth we live as scripture says we be
that light not that lamp that you put
out there to bring light to the darkness
mm-hmm like it's such a simple concept
but it's so mind-altering to put your
your thought into and go WOW okay I get
it and it just it has this this life to
who we are as Christians Jeff I remember
the day I'll refer to it a lot I was 10
years of age actually I need to back up
I was
I told you I was in a actually was a
Salvation Army most people have heard of
the Salvation Army they do such a great
work especially at Christmastime that
they're you know the kettles but I mean
their work is especially all throughout
the year but I think a lot of people
hear more about them and I'm I'm in an
assembly I'm a boy of nine and there's
this man in a uniform I'm coloring some
pages and a man just starts the wave his
hand and all of a sudden I began to weep
and cry and I didn't even know what was
going on in almost one year later at the
age of ten I found myself in another
place not a Salvation Army but another
church and a man was inviting me to know
Jesus Christ as my Lord and Savior and
Jeff just as you were reading from
second Corinthians chapter four God
supernaturally came to me and it was
what he did is like he opened my eyes
mm-hmm he it was as though there was a
veil in front of me and he took me the
veil away from my eyes and then all of a
sudden I was crystal clear I could see
that I was in need of a savior and the
great news is there was a savior waiting
to cleanse me of all my sin and that's
exactly what happened on December the
18th 1977 God opened my eyes and I
believe I actually met God can I say it
this way I met the truth right you know
just listening to you say that thinking
couple of weeks ago we're at my
father-in-law's birthday yes he's color
blind and so now like full circle back
to the beginning of the episode well for
his birthday gift we got him a pair of
sunglasses that correct his
colorblindness oh my goodness and so
like as you're describing this yeah I'm
picturing my dad like my father-in-law
who's colorblind puts these glasses on
and he's a gardener like this what I
love yeah like he knows his flowers and
he loves the colors of his fly
yeah but for 75 years oh it's been a
different color
suddenly he puts his glasses on and it
takes about 20 minutes and then the eyes
start to adjust and he's going I had no
clue that was the color and so at the
end of the day scripture of the truth
that we lie within the Bible is like
those color blind correcting glasses
yeah for those who are color blind and
so going back to that color blind test
at the beginning that 7 is there that's
the truth hmm but if you're color blind
it's akin to being an unbeliever you
don't see the reality of what the actual
truth is and Christ and the scripture
the truth of Scripture is those color
blind correcting glasses and it just
changes everything and you go I can see
the seven why maybe someone's here today
they're saying I never saw the seven
maybe you're listening to us about this
conversation somehow you're like how in
the world that I even get to this
channel but here you are and you're
watching it I would encourage you if you
don't know what truth is and you say I'm
not sure what you do we do yourself a
favor consider this just say God would
you please show me truth when you ask
him sincerely and you open up your heart
to him believing that he's there and
that he's listening to you I promise you
on the authority of God's Word God will
come and he'll listen to you and he'll
do for you what he did for me he'll take
the veil from your eyes and he'll begin
to show you the seven well if you'll
show you what truth is and you will find
yourself being directed to Jesus Christ
the Lord so good
I'm like I'm getting choked up just just
thinking about this this is good but we
are out of time yeah I could I could go
on for hours about this nice and listen
to you for a long time I love I love
your passion love your passion thank you
so much for joining us this week love to
hear your thoughts let us know maybe
you're somebody who's colorblind like
physically colorblind and this just
resonated with you let us know about it
you can contact us through Facebook or
on our website new every day too
if you're watching this on youtube
comment we'd love to hear your thoughts
would love to hear has this had an
impact on you does this change the way
that you see the truth within scripture
or the way that you see your world let
us know
thanks how to great god bless you catch
a new episode of new every day every
Friday morning at new every day TV
we're also on roku Kodi Plex YouTube
Google Play Music podcasts and news book
or if you're in Southern California tune
in every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb
TV channel 33 television for the high
desert
[Music]
you
