now on our YouTube channel there's a hot
video about ripping copy-protected DVDs
how many people still use a DVD player
this week we are going to be re
addressing that because there are a few
questions that frequently come in on
that YouTube video hmmm things around
essentially episode ik DVD rips okay now
when you rip a DVD if it's a movie it's
pretty easy it's pretty straight forward
because it's one video and you're
ripping it and then coding it and and
decoding it and and everything else but
it's one video now when you get a DVD
set of your favorite shows it is a
little more challenging because
typically each disc has multiple
episodes on it right so there is an
added challenge to that so tonight we're
gonna look at software that we have
looked at before but we're gonna take a
little bit of a different approach
because we are going to be using an
episode ik DVD set in order to do our
reps okay then alright the process just
so you know if you are interested in
only in ripping movies and not episodic
DVDs the process is the same if you
master this you will absolutely master
the ability to rip movies as well cuz as
I say it's just one video on the disc
typically what the same process for an
episode of TV show work the same as say
like a DVD that's got special content
yeah interviews and stuff absolutely
those are other videos on the disc yeah
so quickly because I know one of the one
of the comments on YouTube is I talk too
much and so I want to just quickly
mention that one of the reasons I would
want to do this and one of the reasons I
want to do this has nothing to do with
the technology but it has to do with the
fact that I watch a lot of British shows
so they come to me when I order them off
of Amazon UK they come to me region
coded to the UK so they don't play in a
local Canadian DVD player right so I
have to rip it in order to be able to
watch it on my TV because its region
coated see and for me I like this
because I have a ton of DVDs but we're
looking at getting a new sound system
right that they
have DVD players more yeah all of our
TVs are connected to Plex so I want to
be able to watch exactly you you may
have a blu-ray player which plays DVDs
as well but a lot of us have multimedia
centers and that's the other comment
that comes in on our YouTube channel is
well why would I want to rip things to a
computer so that I can watch them on my
laptop no this can these files can be
watched on smart TVs on set-top boxes on
I have a computer in my cellar that has
an HDMI cable coming out of it to the
back of a 55 inch TV and that's our
system so that's how we watch our TV
from plex so I put them on my plex media
server and then we watch the shows up on
our big-screen TV so this is not just so
you can watch it in a portable means of
taking it with you on a laptop though
that is one good use case too if your
kids are going away to school and they
have a bunch of DVDs they might not be
able to take them all with them but you
can rip them to their hard drive and
then all of a sudden they've got their
entire library and are able to take that
to school with them just as an example
for the record we're not breaking any
laws here tonight we own the DVDs that
we are ripping this is about making your
content that you already own more
accessible on your devices perfect I
don't own a DVD player I think I own a
DVD player but I think it's somewhere in
the garage it's not connected to any of
my devices especially with the advent of
flat-screen TVs I no longer have a
cabinet with DVD players and VCRs and
things and I don't want to have it
sitting on the floor below the TV that's
mounted on the wall so it's just a
different world but I own the content
and in fact this is a show that I bought
for my wife but technically for my wife
and I to enjoy together inspector Lewis
it's a great murder mystery show if you
haven't seen it from PBS and and it is
what 9 seasons on Oh 18 discs 18 DVDs
that's crazy right so this is something
that I want to be on my plex media
server because I don't I don't have a
DVD player to put the DVDs in
so why are we ripping dvds and not
blu-rays sighs because notice I can
compress them not everything plays a
blu-ray but if I rip it to a file then
it would right right it's it's a valid
question and this is another one that
you've been sending in the best answer I
can give you for that is let's just
think about the technology for just one
moment now blu-ray you would say is it's
better quality absolutely you can get
1080p blu-ray 4k blu-ray these are only
480p
and granted they still look great but
DVD is much less quality than blu-ray
that's why blu-ray is the you know the
current optical standard anyways think
about your computer mm-hmm okay do you
have a DVD drive on my computer right
yeah you do yep do you have a blu-ray
drive no no mm-hmm so think about when
you buy a computer even when you build a
computer your computer has DVD
capabilities right we may not
necessarily use it to its full capacity
a lot of us use it you know sometimes to
burn discs and things like that but most
computers I don't want to be so general
but majority of computers will not have
blu-ray drives so you cannot rip blu-ray
on a DVD drive you can rip DVD and every
computer since years ago has DVD if it
has an optical drive right right
there was CD then DVD and every computer
has it blu-ray was never adopted as a
computer standard you can spend extra
money you can buy extra devices to can
to give yourself blu-ray but I imagine
that if you've done that you already
know what you're doing and you've you
already know how to rip because why
would you spend the extra hundreds of
dollars on an upgrade for your computer
that when you don't even know what it
does it's not so the the drive that is
built into your computer and in my
laptop today is DVD that's all it will
read and and CD it's down we're
compatible but it will not do blu-ray so
that's the answer to that
and we're and the other point about that
is that we're doing this for free right
yes because I'm huge I already have the
hardware DVD drive in my laptop I
already have the well I'm gonna have the
software in about five minutes I'm gonna
show you how to get it it's absolutely
free if I wanted to rip blu-ray I have
to invest in new hardware I have to buy
commercial software I have to go through
all those hoops so we're not going there
it's all about the DVD all right so the
product that we're gonna be using is
called handbrake and I do have the
capability of bringing this up on my
screen so I'm just going to do that for
you let's go
hand brake dot F R now this software is
available for Windows Mac and Linux and
it's absolutely free I'm gonna do the
demonstration on Windows 10 tonight so
I've just clicked on the download button
and it asked me do I want to keep it and
yes I want to keep that file so now it's
downloading this 12 megabyte file it's
gonna be here in 10 seconds here we go
megabytes so he's super tiny so this is
a program that's going to allow us to
copy these DVDs to a file right so
understand we're not making a copy from
a DVD to another DVD no right we're
we're taking the data off of the DVD
we're going to remove the copy
protection and we're going to then
encode it to a file format mp4 which is
going to allow us to watch it on our
set-top box on our plex media server all
of those things okay so you said remove
the copy protection yes now do we
eventually put copy protection back on
okay so should most systems that have
DRM protection I think that deep DRM DC
yeah DRM DRM would they still recognize
it without the copy protection
okay so understand Jeff we're not going
to change the DVD correct okay DVDs are
a read-only medium right DVD RW that's
different that means rewrite right but
when you buy a commercial DVD video set
it is write read-only right they've
silk-screened it and pressed
so we're not making any changes that are
going to affect that disk it's going to
still work exactly the same it's going
to have the same copy protection what
we're doing is when we copy it to the
hard drive of my computer we're going to
remove the the protection which will
obfuscate the video okay because if I
just simply if I just put a DVD in my
drive and copied all the files to my
computer and tried to play the VOB files
they be green lines yes and it would be
all messed up because there's copy
protection that prevents me from making
that copy right and rightly so I go back
to the fact that I own these discs I'm
not showing you how to bootleg or how to
make illegal copy do that what we're
doing here is is just making this for
ourselves so with that file now download
it I hope that answers your question
does okay so there's a handbrake now
ready to install so I'm gonna click on
that and we're gonna install that next I
agree and next perfect now you think
you're done but you're not I mentioned
about copy protection yes okay right
handbrake is free software and they need
to be careful that they are not
distributing software that can be used
for illegal purposes okay right so right
now in its current state I can rip my
family movies I can rip my wedding DVD
that was created for me but I cannot rip
commercial DVDs with copy protection I
have to go one step further in order to
rip and decode the copy protection
remove that and that's using a tool from
VLC which we all know and love yeah VLC
the video player it's able to play
everything and we can use some of their
technology in order to bypass and get
around the copy protection so it's a
little hard to find when I go to VLC .
is it org nope VLC let's just know now
it's in my memory VLC . no video land
org that's how they always get me okay
video land or in projects you see lib
DVD CSS and gives you all these now Lib
DVD CSS
is specifically a library designed for
accessing dvds like a block device
without having to bother about the
decryption it's a fancy way to say this
gets around the encoding that protects
the DVD you can go into releases and
you're going to 1.2.12 and then you see
win 64 see all the hoops that you gotta
go through know why that version did
they discontinued it after they stopped
making it for they stopped compiling it
for Windows ok so that particular
version 1.2.12 anyway so you're on
Windows let's make it simple I've
created a hot link for you all you have
to do is go cat5 dot TV /lib DVD CSS
forget about the dot DLL because it's
just a hot link when I click on that
enter it's going to redirect to the file
and it's gonna allow me to download it
keep what's it again lit cat5 dot TV
/lib DVD CSS Lib DVD CSS and you see
that below as well so now I've
downloaded that file just save it to
your downloads folder I cannot reiterate
enough you do not save this to its final
destination your Windows system won't
allow you to do that and it will end up
saving it in the wrong spot and then
your decoding will not work ok ok I need
to now take that DLL file which has been
downloaded to my downloads folder and I
actually I've downloaded it twice so
it's got a one after it I want the the
original DLL file so I just want to copy
that file Lib DVD CSS to DLL is what
it's calling it right now
and I'm gonna go now again I'm on
Windows this will work on Mac and Linux
it's just that the file locations are
different find where handbrake installed
to and you'll be able to do this on
Windows it's usually going to be in your
C Drive in Program Files and then a
folder now called handbrake because
remember I installed a program called
handbrake so here it is but it's missing
the DLL to decode that so I'm going to
right click and hit paste and here's the
warning you're going to need
administrator permission to do this
continue so now in that folder along
with my handbrake dot exe is also live
DVD CSS - 2 dot d ll that is a necessary
step if you're getting garbled video on
your rips you've you've done that
incorrectly ok download it to your
downloads folder then copy it or cut it
and paste it into the same folder as
handbrake Exe do not open the program
before that point ok notice the the
steps that we've taken now I can close
this and I'm gonna bring up handbrake on
my screen and I've already inserted the
first disc of the set ok do that first
put your disc in if you bring up
handbrake first and then put the disc in
you're probably not gonna see your your
desk ok I put it in first
ok now I'm gonna bring up handbrake here
it comes
and you see now it has detected the DVD
so hit OK or just click on that DVD and
now it's scanning the titles of this
disc now on the box --set here there's a
couple of things so on the back of the
disc on the case right disc one ok and
then there's the pilot series pilot and
whom the gods would destroy 2 episode 2
episode 1 disc 2 episodes so on that
disc now I can see if I look under title
I see three files well what what on
earth right observe one hour 37 minutes
and four seconds one hour 38 minutes and
38 seconds one minute 39 seconds that's
the episode yeah so the first two files
are the first two titles that it sees on
the DVD those are the episodes and then
this is probably the menu it's like a
one-minute loop so I'm gonna first click
on the first one and up here see this
here this is extremely important I need
to observe how they created this DVD the
encoding that they used so this is 720
by 480 but it is actually anamorphic so
it's 850
three by 480 is the actual resolution of
the desk and this is key the frame rate
twenty three point nine eight frames per
second keep that in the back of your
mind so I want to you notice that it
defaulted to fast 1080p30
yep don't want that okay because a DVD
is only 480p why would i rip it in 1080p
which will upscale it will create a
1080p file but the source is only 480p
so I'm basically just stretching it out
it would just make a bigger file yeah
uselessly yeah so what I want to do is I
want to as closely as possible match my
encoders to the DVD itself that's why
the framerate is very very important so
the first thing I'm going to do with the
DVD is I'm gonna change my preset to
general fast 480p 30 because that's the
closest thing to match a DVD 480p 30
seconds 30 frames per second so next
thing I want to do is turn on web
optimized what that will do Jeff is that
will help so that your plex media server
if you pause it it can resume easier
okay skim you can skim easier because
it's in your web browser when you're
using Plex so that helps web optimized
is important dimensions I just want to
bring you back to this we don't need to
change anything that's already detected
720 by 480 anamorphic is set to
automatic and you see that the display
size is coming out to 853 by 480 which
matches 853 by 480 the actual disk that
I've inserted okay next up I just want
to show you filters we have
deinterlacing this is all just left
default but what that does because our
computers our devices are
progressive-scan
so each frame is a full-frame interlaced
the DVD is actually interlaced so it's
only half of the frame per frame so so
deinterlacing is going to fix the lines
that you see in some videos if you
didn't have the interlace and you'd have
lines through everything especially
during action shots so just leave those
leave those filters as they are because
the defaults are perfect we do not need
to I don't even know how to say it
details
a sign because this is if we were
upscaling to 30 frames per second but we
want to actually match the twenty three
point nine eight so just forget about
filters I just wanted to show you that
ok leave everything the same as it is
except we want to set a constant frame
rate because we know that it is twenty
three point nine eight frames per second
the default is thirty frames per second
I actually want to match the DVD so keep
in mind I am not telling you to set this
to twenty three point nine eight frames
per second or in it which is really
23.976 that's the correct option for
this particular disc but every time you
insert a disc you need to observe those
top stats so that you know what that
disc is the next disc that I put on in
even if it's from the same set might be
thirty frames per second question for
sure yeah yeah and it does happen and in
fact with this particular DVD set once
you get to the second a second set of
discs it goes up to thirty frames per
second that could be because they were
shooting in 24 frames per second and
then they switched to thirty P for NTSC
something like that but I've just
observed that so I'm not saying to do
this at 23.976 generically I'm saying
observe what the disc is and match that
so I'm creating a copy of this that is
so close to the original that you're
probably not going to notice the
difference so everything else so
remember constant framerate 23.976
matches twenty three point nine eight
which is a rounded number you may have
thirty frames per second or twenty nine
point nine seven on different discs but
this disc is that
[Music]
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts now if you I mean chances
are you're not gonna find that your disc
is different but then those numbers but
if you do find this different are you
better to downscale to the closest and
closest lower or closest higher DVDs
generally are going to be 24 frames a
second right 30 frames a second 29.97
frames a second you're not you're not
gonna have four frame a second DVDs or
that's a 6,000 yeah there-there are
standards right and so these these
represent the standards and then some
like that here 60 frames a second 120
frames a second 59.94 depends yeah and
it will show you here what the frames
per second is that's what we want to
match up audio I'm just gonna leave it
as is oh and back here constant quality
I'm gonna leave at 20 if you increase
that it's gonna the numbers going to go
down and you're just going to get a
bigger file size but I think 20 is a
pretty happy place you're gonna get
really good quality without going over
the top as far as file size goes audio
I'm just going to leave as is but if
there are other audio tracks you can
select them if you want to choose a
different language for example I'm just
using the English and that's all that
there is on this DVD if it has Italian
and you would prefer the Italian track
you can actually change that and that's
what will be ripped
you can include both if there are
multiple tracks you can also include
those and then you can change it using
VLC or your player
that's a cool option yeah absolutely
everything else is just gonna stay as is
those are the key things so now save as
I'm just gonna browse somewhere on my
computer go on to my desktop the naming
is important especially if you're using
plex media server or some other kind of
media server you gotta start with season
number and the episode number so s01e01
is the beginning of this file because
otherwise it's not going to show up on
your plex media server so I'm gonna call
this s 0 0 1 0 1 and then I do a hyphen
and then I'm gonna call this series
pilot because that's actually what they
call it dot mp4 don't forget to specify
that save now I'm not actually doing
anything yet what I want to do is I want
to add that to my queue now if I look at
the queue we can see it's there it's
ready to go but I this is episode ik
remember so now if I was just doing a TV
movie I'm done right I could just rip it
and I'm done but because this is episode
ik and there are two episodes on this
desk next step is to now pull down the
title and change to the next one episode
2 and I'm gonna leave everything as is
it's already using the same settings
that I already set but now I don't need
to browse I'm just gonna delete the last
the automated file name here and call it
s01e02 and the episode number of or the
episode name of number 2 for this show
is called whom the gods would destroy
and so back at handbrake I'm just gonna
put that in there or I could type it dot
mp4 now add to my queue so the
specifications would never change
episode 2 episode on the same desk it
would just be this to disk it might
change the disk itself is a certain
frame rate is the certain resolution but
on the next disk might be a different
frame rate right yeah I haven't seen it
mixed it could technically I think it
could be mixed ok but I've never seen it
I just feel like perhaps you'd get
lulled into it say there was like seven
episodes on a disk yeah walled into
repeating and repeating that you put in
a new desk and well everything's changed
yes you gotta watch that yeah and you
see how quick it is to change it anyways
and modify those
now if I look at my cue I have both of
those episodes in my cue all I need to
do is hit start cue and pour yourself a
coffee go sit down it's on my i7 laptop
it's gonna take about an hour per
episode so so close to real-time because
I don't know what I have I don't know
that it's really that specific it's just
that's how long it takes because what
it's doing is its decoding removing the
copy protection or copying the file
itself and then encoding to the mp4
format that matches the specifications
that I've given right so then I end up
with an mp4 file because this is going
to take two hours just before the show I
actually set it up and did exactly this
and so I already have these two episodes
ripped and that's why the disc was
already in my drive I'm just gonna close
out of this and if I bring up my folder
here where I ripped it you can see now
I've got these two files and if I click
on it on my computer there it is it's a
perfect rip it looks fantastic it looks
perfect and up on my up on my big-screen
TV it looks wonderful cool and there you
go so that is decoded and it works and
we're good to go
I like this I have a drawer full of DVDs
in art and their unit yeah that I could
spend days ripping and we would love to
show these things but we don't have a
DVD player anymore
yeah we're just gonna sit there we keep
talking about all should we have just
sold them off but now it's like no
there's a purpose you can rip them and
put them on your plex media server yeah
and and it's absolutely like cuz the the
video is great the video looks even on
my 55 inch TV the 480p looks fabulous
and because I've set the settings as I
have the quality is stellar like there's
no there no artifacting there's no
there's no perceptible loss it looks
great
it looks absolutely perfect so I think
that that covers everything that we need
to cover for this feature I hope that
you've enjoyed it and learn from it and
I hope that it helps you to be able to
move your DVD library into you
current set-up because I just don't have
the setup to play these anymore but I
still buy them I still support the the
industries that make them and and and
I'm happy to do that and by doing that
I'm paying for it
I bought these off of Amazon I'm not
downloading illegal copies of videos I'm
not breaking the law I'm not stealing
from the content creators and but I
still have the same effect of being able
to put it on my devices and being able
to put it on my plex media server or
whatever other device that I own that
gives me access to that content in a
modern kind of way very cool there's a
question from Sobel in the chatroom what
if one just wants to rip without
changing the encoding so DVD encoding is
mpeg-2 right now but keep in mind it has
copy protection yes so you will not be
able to play those files if you don't go
through the process so part of this is
decoding then re encoding to a format
that your devices will be able to play
right that's the key thing so I hope
that answers for you I hope that all of
your questions have been answered if you
have any more please comment below
[Applause]
