what we're doing is we are cross
comparing several single board computers
I want to finally answer the age-old
question from about two weeks ago which
is the best single board computers
course what we're setting out to achieve
if not this week over the next couple of
weeks so one of the things I had to do
was get on Amazon and order a whole
bunch of Kingston SD cards micro sd yeah
so I picked up this really neat little
little case I'm going to show you this
this is pretty cool
that is awesome it fits in your credit
like a credit card sleeve of your wallet
right and it holds ten SD cards micro SD
no way that is so useful so I bought a
bunch of Kingston SD cards off of Amazon
and loaded it up some of them are in
single board computers right now but I
really needed to have easy access to a
whole bunch of SD cards and this is a
way to safely and portably transfer it
it's just a ten dollar stupid little
thing then I just added to the cart as I
was checking out because I'm like okay
well I got to get all these SD cards for
all these SBC's would not be testing
where we're gonna put them all together
it gets confusing when you popped into
my head right now
yeah are they can you wipe the memory
from them with a magnet like are they
should you keep it away from that right
so you should you keep it away from
things if it's in this easy to carry I
wouldn't put it on any op of an electro
pulse you wouldn't put it near your
cellphone would you put it near yourself
oh sure okay there are some things what
you're not supposed to put things next
to other things
yeah magnetic storage and stuff and yeah
I don't not susceptible to okay but I
mean an SD card is waterproof and you
know sometimes as long as it doesn't get
too hot it can go through the wash and
it'll probably still be okay but here I
it before they plug it in gonna end up
with one of those right and oh yeah
in your pocket a few but you put it in
your person in your wallet and it's fine
oh yeah well because it's the form
factor of a credit card
yeah and it's just a little bit thicker
maybe the the thickness of about two
cards yeah feels so good photography or
something because it's like usually I
have to leave them in like the larger
adaptors so that I'd write and oh yeah
so what are you shooting with you're
shooting with GoPro and how not even
GoPro anymore sorry but just like drones
and stuff whenever I see yeah they're
all micro SD yeah so I can just go like
it's just a random little thing that I
thought I would show you because I did
need a bunch of SD cards for what we're
doing okay and I didn't want to lose
track of what's what so then the next
thing that we encountered last week when
I was looking at the nano PI m4 was
power power how am I going to give it
more power right here but has it
requires four amps right my best
Raspberry Pi power adapter that's USB
hmm it's 2.1 not enough not nearly as we
discovered last week Amazon right start
looking around and I say Amazon because
hey I've got Prime and I needed it fast
and it and it usually has a pretty great
selection so I started looking around
for different power supplies I couldn't
find a good 4 amp power supply I found
some neat units that were like that were
multi charger devices that you can plug
in like 6 phones - okay and it's like 20
amps and things like that yeah then you
read the fine print and it's like it's
1.4 amps per port okay right but it's
got 10 ports or something you know
whatever it is so workout to head it up
wave - yeah
so that didn't work out and so I'm like
okay what am I gonna do and then I
remembered remember when Bill Marshall
was here on the set yes and we pulled
out this device that I got at camp five
dot TV slash ATX yes and this device
allows you to convert an ATX power
supply into a DC power unit I see where
this is going
yes so I'm gonna disconnect this from
the power supply because I want you to
see what I invented
I know right so Henry just so you're
aware just to get you caught up yeah cap
five TV slash ATX you plug in a standard
power supply from a computer right and
right in there ATX it's in the name
there you go then it's got fuses and
even a power switch and it has negative
12 volt positive 12 volt 5 volt and 3.3
volt with rounds and they're on these
pegs
okay so I'll tell you the one thing that
I discovered that I didn't know about
this is that it is not compatible with
banana plugs it looks like it is but you
can't actually put a banana plug in
there so I removed the terminals and I
went to put my banana plugs on it to
basically give it a an upgrade yeah but
the hole for the screw is just a little
bit too small for my sockets so so I
couldn't do that so instead I had to
just put a little bit of wire so I've
got a couple of spools of wire here and
I did a good soldering job yes show you
a close-up of what I've actually done
here and achieved so remember this is
pulling from my power supply like a
computer power supply it's 600 Watts
that means I have 120 amps to work with
so then I've got a power switch here to
turn it on and off but here's where the
magic happens five volt terminals okay
so that's like a Raspberry Pi or any
five volt single board computer going
out to these wires and then um a USB
jack so I can plug any five volt USB
into there and I have 120 amps to work
with so creativity powers up the m4 like
a boss I might have to get like 20 more
m4 s with the amount of power that I'm
the table that explains everything does
it yes when I came in the table covered
in
Wow you did such a good job oh thank you
so pleased with the way that this turned
out so that came as so I've talked about
this before and I actually had this
discussion with Bill and said you know
on Amazon or when I have to order parts
I have to order 20 of them I actually
went to sale here in town yeah and said
do you have that I wanted I wanted a
port like that yeah and they actually
didn't have one really yeah they didn't
have one and the guy who was working
there said we should have this and I
said yeah because I only wanted one
right thankfully bill I bought them in
bulk because had I bought one hmm I did
ruin the first one that I tried to
solder oh yeah all right so pro yet but
I'm learning so this one is just - it's
for my memory box yeah just to remind me
how far I've come so it's just got it's
got USB Jack's it's got all of the look
like yeah it's just it's got all that
stuff so this was like 20 bucks and I
ended up with 10 Jack's and 10 plugs so
I can actually make us plugs as well so
that's how that came about so we've got
enough amperage to power as many single
board computers in whatever single board
computer that we want 5 volt over these
terminals and that's what we're doing
tonight so this is a two-week feature at
its heart but this weekend I say at its
heart because I know it could evolve
from there right we're constantly
receiving new hardware we're constantly
looking at new hardware it's coming up
on Christmas season and so we know that
new single board computers are coming
out Raspberry Pi just announced a new
one
and you know so there are going to be
more as well so right now today this
week we are looking at a Raspberry Pi 3
model b+ we also have out of its case
this is a and I should probably get in
here so that you can see these so
Raspberry Pi 3 B+ in the alley
is it the Aled we know I think it's
called case I really like this case
anyways if you're interested oh there it
is Ella do we know that's right that
again there off of an
I really like the solid aluminum body
and they're really well built so that's
the Raspberry Pi 3 model b+ then I have
the rock pro 64 this is one that we've
never fired up before but we did the
unboxing Henry this has it's got the
full GPIO it's got some headers for
Wi-Fi and things like that it's got
video out the wazoo it's got gigabit
ethernet barrel plug for power
it's got full size HDMI 4k 30 it's got
USB 3 USB 2 everything that you could
hope for Wow but also it's got PCI
Express which blows my mind on a single
board computer so we're gonna be
benchmarking this today as well and
powering that then also from Pyne 64
we've got the LTS the a 64 LTS this one
has the Wi-Fi module on it we're gonna
fire it up and give it a good test
that's another nice board I'm gonna tell
you more about the specifications as we
go and the rock 64 so we're this is the
rock pro 64 look at the difference okay
so this is like the form factor of a
Raspberry Pi this one is like twice that
size that's the rock 64 so basically we
have three boards from Pyne 64 and we
have one Raspberry Pi 3 model B+ alright
so I'm gonna explain something that came
about this week that I'm really quite
excited about please do the giggles yeah
at the end of last week's show yeah just
had the the casual conversation where it
was like there are a lot of benchmarks
out there mm-hmm I can pull up
benchmarks of the Raspberry Pi 3 I can
pull up benchmarks of the rock pro 64
but the problem is is that the Pi 3 at
its price point is really cheap 30 35
bucks for a model B B+ I mean and so how
can I possibly compare that to say the
rock pro 64 that's 80 bucks right so
even if it performs better which it
would because you'd expect it would how
does it compare yeah well what the bang
for the buck and I get it all the time
you can't call this a Raspberry Pi
killer because it's so much more
expensive right right but then so the
giggles
what I'm about as the conversation that
we had last week how can we compare
these cost wise value wise right
actually so a new algorithm has been
created and it's it's basically a pseudo
currency to allow us to see the value of
a single board computer
it's called giggles and it takes the
benchmarks and it takes the dollar value
whatever we pump into the benchmark tool
of that single board computer then as
its benchmarking it calculates averages
it figures out based on the price what
is the actual value of this board when
compared to the performance of the board
right so a giggle value is not at all a
dollar value so something with a really
high giggle value doesn't mean it's very
expensive it could be a very cheap
single board computer however based on
the performance that it has how does it
compare to the dollars that you spend
right so also a really expensive single
board computer with very low performance
would have a low giggle no right low per
for exercise if it had low performance
it would have a very high good because
so let me okay explain to me if it does
well is they'll lower high giggle low
low because the value because the giggle
value is like if I was to compare cost
to performance yes I want to know what
the cheapest board is so the giggle
value you the cheaper it is the more
value there is in that board okay you
want love can I give you a really really
simple example that everybody will
understand yes
let's here's that here's a hypothetical
single board computer it cost me $10
mm-hmm and it has a performance of two
thousand events per second okay and
let's just say it has a giggle value of
80 okay
so eighty giggles okay so then take the
next one
now watch the simple math I'm going to
double the the valve what I actually had
payin US dollars it cost me $20 it has a
performance benchmark of 4,000 events
per second it too has an 80 giggle score
because dollar-for-dollar you've doubled
the price you've doubled the performance
it's exactly the same giggle value as
one that's half price okay so that's the
same range right exactly
oh now we've got an accurate comparison
that we can take a Raspberry Pi at $35
and we can compare it to that Rock pro
64 at $80 and the giggle value will now
tell us which one right the best value
okay by looking at that score and the
lower the score the better the value
good so we've got these four single
board computers we are going to
benchmark them and look at their giggle
value right after this
[Music]
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring
a fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today
cap five dot TV slash shirts yeah we're
gonna benchmark that yeah should we get
into it you guys ready we're gonna take
a look at the benchmarks of these four
single board computers again I've got
the Raspberry Pi 3 model b-plus
I've got the rock 64 from Pine 64 I've
got the ia 64 LTS from Pine 64 as well
as their Rock pro 64 single board
computer beautiful stuff so what I've
actually done is before the show I
recorded this so that we could do a four
up benchmark and if we're ready we're
gonna jump right into it so here we go
in the top left hand side well you see
the rock pro 64 there in the top right
top left is the raspberry pi 3 model
beat plus lower left is the rock 64 and
then next to that and the bottom right
is the so pine or the a 64 LTS so let's
let those benchmarks run now what we're
using is a tool called cat 5 TV - SBC
test and what that does is it runs some
some benchmarks and then run some
comparisons to give us the giggle value
don't worry I'm gonna zoom in as soon as
one of these completes the a 64 LTS has
finished and it's giggle value is 75 65
so seventy five point six five giggles
the Raspberry Pi 3 model B+
the other hand is still going and still
going and the other two have already
finished as well the rock 64 in Rock pro
64 I'm gonna go over those numbers
unfortunately they flashed by on the
screen but don't worry I can fix that in
post the rock 64 completed its test and
was the fastest to complete the test
which was surprising the rock 64 being
only a 4 core single board computer just
like the pine a 64 LTS and the PI model
3 or B+ sorry I got distracted cuz that
is a three hundred and fifty point nine
zero giggles that's the Raspberry Pi 3
model B+ so let's look at them in the
order in which they completed
OK ROCK 64 completed it its tests first
the benchmarks completed on this board
first ok this has 4 cores 4 gigs of RAM
keep in mind that I bought Kingston SD
cards and they all match every single
board computer is using exactly the same
brand speed model of cars yes absolutely
there is some some control there and
giggle values incidentally do not take
into account I oh so that's important to
note as well because if you were using
emmc you don't want it to give you
poorly
giggle value so this board here had a
cpu result of 1420 to events per second
which is a giggle value of about 113
giggles okay then it's also tested
against RAM performance Ram results are
astonishing Ram is super fast the RAM
result here was 1 million nine hundred
and eighty four thousand five hundred
forty eight events per second that
brings the giggle value down to only
eight for that hundreds of a giggle Wow
eight one hundredths of a giggle so
basically if you were looking at u.s.
dollars would be like eight cents right
the mutex result was 71 point eight four
six and the total giggle cost for this
board is astonishing
the giggle cost for this board remember
this fifty 1.37 giggles fifty okay
fifty 1.37 Wow so hold on to that in the
back of your mind fifty 1.37 for this
one now moving along the rock pro 64
which I actually thought would finish
first right but the CPU the CPU
performance of this was fantastic but
the RAM performance was quite a bit less
than the rock 64 Oh surprising that's
interesting mm-hmm so the CPU result was
about twice that of the rock 64 two
thousand eight hundred and ninety seven
point two oh seven and I should just say
so this board is $80 okay okay this one
is I'm gonna have to oh sorry I'm
looking at my notes here
forty five Oh forty five dollars five
dollars
yes don't worry I got I got all my
numbers right we got a guy this one's
eighty okay so moving along RAM on this
as I mentioned it's quite a bit slower
than this surprisingly eight eight
hundred fifteen thousand seven hundred
fifty eight point five one nine events
per second right still huge but a lot
slower than the rock 64 that gives it a
giggle value of about 0.35 giggles
versus the zero point oh five right
right so keep her Oh 8 that one was the
mute x value of this one was nineteen
point three oh three events per second
and that gives this one a giggle cost of
eighty one giggles okay so this one
looking at the giggle value this one
costs more than the rock sixty-four as
far as performance to price yes dollars
ratio right however the CPU performance
so it's important to gauge this and
understand okay so this one is better
value for the dollar yeah but if you
don't mind spending the extra dollars
this one is twice as fast when it comes
to CPU processing so keep that in mind
right you got to remember that this was
gauging everything but the giggles gives
us a little bit extra knowledge
next up and it's no surprise the the
Raspberry Pi 3 model B plus came in last
place the a 64 LTS finished up with a
cpu result of nine hundred and eighty
seven events per second not anything to
write to get upset about
I mean we're gonna see that's
significantly faster than a Raspberry Pi
which we're going to find in just a few
moments which is interesting because I
don't get burned by the YouTube
community who says oh well you know
that's more expensive but I think we
should note that this is actually
cheaper than a Raspberry Pi 3 B+ okay it
is Raspberry Pi model yeah model B plus
of the Raspberry Pi 3 is $35 this one is
$32 u.s. mm-hmm okay so keep that in
mind
and with that in mind are you ready for
the RAM performance two million two
million one hundred and sixty three
thousand four hundred and eighty four
point four three three events per second
which brings its value down to only 0.05
giggling gosh I mean the RAM benchmark
right and then the mutexes mmm three
point two nine four events per second
not that great on the mutex but the
giggle cost of this is less than the
rock pro 64 this one is only 75 point
six five giggles based on our benchmark
Wow
so it's again we've got a scenario where
with this this one is slower than the
rock 60 for the CPU benchmark shil is
that it's about 400 events per second
less than the rock 64 but we're looking
at a difference of $13 so this is $13
cheaper exactly so where where's the
toss-up right but at seventy five point
six five giggles that's a very good
value remember to the rock pro or the
rock 64 was only 51 point three seven
now the pi3 model b-plus so this is the
latest and greatest Raspberry Pi the
fastest that they've got
wait now we've got this new one that's
coming available but it's not here yet
this one has one gigabyte of RAM all
right
nothing to write home about I mean these
boards are all four gigabytes of RAM
yeah
The Rock Pro is it four gigs yeah I'm
pretty sure that we've got our gig model
but this one only has one gig of ram so
that's the Raspberry Pi so this one is
interesting because it's it's the
benchmark yes oh I like this is this was
the first yeah this is the one that
everybody has and and loves and we love
it as well so don't don't get the wrong
impression but I want to be realistic
about the fact that there are other
vendors out there and we're looking at
pine 64 tonight and we're realizing that
their performance is significantly
better for the money hmm yes you pay
more for a rock 64 at $45 than you do
for a Raspberry Pi model B plus
Raspberry Pi 3 at $35 right so this
one's $10 more but let's look at the
specification exactly CPU results it's
brutally slow oh it's brutal oh no like
this slowest of the bunch yeah I'm
talking the PI in 64 a 64 LTS we're kind
of like that's pretty slow at 987 events
per second and then 125 okay so that
gives it a giggle value of 1002 giggles
too many on the CPU so the CPU on this
is extremely expensive and giggle values
right but it makes up for it with pretty
fast round really well on the RAM
benchmarks two million four hundred and
eighteen thousand five hundred and
eighty-one events per second which is
going to offset that really high CPU
benchmark because it's only 0.05 giggles
which is the same as the a 64 LTS as far
as the giggle value right yeah so it's
faster but we can see that the value is
exactly the same dollar for dollar this
one's 32 dollars 35 dollars this is
exactly the same value Ram wise as this
one but this one the CPU underperforms
and is very high so the cost is too high
for the CPU performance of this one new
text result is eighty five point three
four five events per second which is
pretty good
that's 0.15 giggles yeah and the final
giggle score so let's before I say the
final score for the Raspberry Pi 3 model
b-plus mm-hmm
this one's giggle score this is the rock
64 from Pine 6450 1.37 giggles a very
good value again when compared when
comparing performance to the US dollar
about cost right well good-bye Rock pro
64 81 giggles still excellent value all
a 64 LTS this one is 75 point six five
giggles and at 32 US dollars it's
actually a very good value all right for
those who have said oh well but the rock
64 is more expensive than the Raspberry
Pi 3 V plus so it can't possibly be a
Raspberry Pi killer the Raspberry Pi 3
model b+ clocked 350 point 9 giggles
almost 350 holy that ladies and
gentlemen in my eyes makes the rock 64
from Pine 64 a Raspberry Pi killer Wow
not talking about the education so you
of Raspberry Pi but saying for me who I
already understand the GP I already know
Stan Python I already understand how to
set up a single board computer the best
value for the money is the rock 64 from
pine 64 the raspberry pi is cheaper
dollar-for-dollar $10 cheaper right but
performance wise this one has a giggle
value of 50 1.37 this one is three
hundred and fifty point nine is the cost
so this is significantly less for way
better performance incredible I think
that's great to see it means that people
are innovating and means that yes we're
going on and we're seeing a lot of
innovation from other vendors now
raspberry pi is disappointing right now
with their for now
yes for now we're all waiting for the
Raspberry Pi 4 and when I say that I
mean there are I know that there are a
lot of Raspberry Pi fans and we can we
all love them I love them too oh yeah
but I am realistic about the quality of
the competition exactly and the
performance of the competition and the
value for dollar for dollar right okay
so our top two this week are the rock 64
and the rock pro 64 from Pine 64 next
week we are going to put those two
against the Odroid xu4 cube which is a
an 8 core single board right of course
I'm sure
it's either 6 or 8 but I'm pretty sure
we're gonna find out I'm gonna find out
and we're also gonna put that against
the nano PI m4 which we wanted to look
at last week as well we're gonna power
that from this bad boy and we're gonna
do all the benchmarks again next week
these ones are already done but we're
gonna be able to see ultimately what is
the best value single board computer
here at the end of 2018 so as you're
looking at Christmas lists and things
like that thank you for saying I want a
Raspberry Pi or I want a single board
computer I want to learn stem and start
working on building my own little
microcomputer well this is a great
opportunity for you to see where's the
where's the sweet spot and that's
exactly what we've set out to do you can
get your own benchmark tool by going to
github.com slash cat 5 TV slash cat 5 TV
- SBC test that is below and I hope that
you find that very useful tonight we've
used version 1.0 and each board has used
exactly the same version so that we have
a one-to-one comparison and same thing
will happen next week there you go there
you have it that is cool Wow yeah
thoughts questions and concerns comment
below let us know what you think I have
a question yeah okay so I play retro
games right now on my single board
computer that's good
can I just do that with that can I do
yeah mhm and it would just be faster
yeah yeah you being cred
for a Raspberry Pi three handles 1080p
pretty good good sorry
both of these these boards 4k 60p plus
they have the higher performance plus
they have like other options for storage
one thing about these is that they both
support emmc instead of G which is a
different type of storage okay so we're
for this test we used SD cards for all
of our micro computers right SD cards
are quite slow in comparison to like an
SSD drive yeah or in this case e MMC or
an MDOT - or things like that so MMC is
like a step up as far as the single
board computer hard drive goes okay it's
gonna give you even better
io or input-output performance so things
are gonna load faster things are gonna
be a lot quicker that you're gonna do
really really well with the MMC both of
those boards support it Raspberry Pi
does not got it okay thank you yeah
that's another thing they're more value
we don't even talk about just like that
do they have GPIO yes they have Pi GPIO
so they're actually compatible yep 40
pin
[Applause]
you
