we're gonna be taking a look at the
Odroid cloud shell - right now it's just
a box I'm gonna set it down and we're
gonna take a look so what we're gonna do
tonight is we're gonna actually assemble
this thing put it together for you and
what's included in my box of the cloud
shell - is the Odroid xu4 cue
you see this this is a SBC I'm gonna
call it the Raspberry Pi killer here
tonight folks and the cue in the name
stands for quiet and that's that huge
heatsink that you see there that is
gonna keep this thing cool without a fan
why is it a Raspberry Pi killer well you
see the circuits
it's basically compatible as far as the
form factor goes but we've got gigabit
ethernet 4k video output and more we're
gonna talk all about that now in the
cloud shell case we've got a whole bunch
of stuff there's a USB 3 component kick
cable we've got the ribbon cable a bunch
of screws we've got let's see the this
is really nice the front panel includes
a 2.8 inch TFT color screen but it also
has a backplane built right into it look
at that SATA and that is for two SATA
hard drives so that's going to give us
rate controller or j-bot or whatever we
want to do that's all built in I've got
a power cable I've got the Americans
kind of 110 then we've got the 92
millimeter fan to cool it and a 15 volt
4 amp power brick we've got a couple of
little mounting little pieces as you can
see we're gonna show you all about what
that does and the emmc hard drive it's
basically a replacement for the SD card
that you would put in in your Raspberry
Pi
there's our battery for the battery
backup for the real-time clock and then
the components themselves for the case
now you'll notice that they have a
little bit of a cloudy finish and that's
because each of these components have a
protective film on it now you may not
see it and you may not be able to really
easily get to it but if you get your
nail under there you're gonna see that
you can peel that right back and we need
to do both sides of each of these pieces
of plastics so that's just there to
protect it during manufacture and during
shipping itself but make sure now if
is not crystal clear then you know that
that has some film on it so once that's
done they're gonna be perfectly clean
clear and not gonna have that cloudy
look to them whatsoever so now we just
have to kind of figure out where to plug
everything in but I want to do this with
a Kingston SSD if I can so let's give it
a go I'm just gonna put it on this
mounting bracket to make it the same
size as a 3.5 million inch hard drive
and then I should be able to mount it to
the side brackets here so set everything
up and just a couple of screws on each
side should do it but we need to make
sure that it's lined up right now I've
noticed that I've actually got it
mounted the wrong way around here Jeff
so I need to actually turn that over
pay attention Robbie okay there we go
lined up to the backplane just fine
that's better I can put that back
together through the magic of TV we can
speed this up for you so it's not a full
hour there we go now all I have to do is
just plug in the backplane you'll see
that it just kind of snaps onto the
backplane there because it is just an
SATA hard drive so that carries power
and the the data as well but what I'm
noticing here with the SSD in particular
with this mounting apparatus is that
it's not lining up so the problem with
that is now I can't line it up to the
backplane that's a problem so I do have
a server here that has some old 500 gig
hard drives in it I'm gonna pull those
out as we take a really quick commercial
break when we come back we're gonna take
that SSD out of there and we're going to
instead install physical like spinning
hard drives all this cutting style
alright so stick around we'll be right
back you've got mad skills
now hone them learn new skills or
improve your existing ones with online
video tutorials and training from
lynda.com through our special link at
cat5 dot TV slash Linda learned software
technology creative and business skills
you can use today to help you achieve
your professional goals join today and
start learning we'll give you this
chance to try it absolutely free with
unlimited access to all of the courses
sign up now for free cat
five dot TV / Linda welcome back this is
category five technology TV now tonight
we are building the Odroid cloud shell -
with the xu4 single board computer I'm
calling it the raspberry pod killer
because it is way more powerful than the
Raspberry Pi so let's fire it back up
and we're gonna throw these hard drives
in that I pulled out of an old server
that I've got here these are just 500
gig barracudas so we'll just remove them
from the mounting apparatus and just
take this SSD out now I do want to do
the SSD thing so in a couple of moments
I'm going to show you a bracket that we
could use that would allow me to use my
SSDs in this system but you can see that
the normal hard drive line up really
really well and so we're gonna go that
route just for tonight for the sake of
time and for the sake of the
demonstration so that looks good it's
gonna work with this backplane just fine
so we'll put these drives in now this
particular unit the clout shell to the
case it includes the back plane that has
raid raid capabilities so by putting two
hard drives in here I can set up a
mirror I can make it so that these two
computer these two hard drives will have
an exact image of one another so that if
one of the hard drives crashes I still
have the data so we should be able just
to plug that right in now these ones
line up a lot better than that then that
SSD with the just kind of the included
mounting plate so if we just line that
up and give it a little push should be
nice and snug there we go okay alright
looking good
not too tough to put this thing together
as a Jeff no simple Sasha do you
appreciate the ease I'm just gonna stick
a couple of screws in here too just to
hold that together that's just for the
side of the the faceplate itself a
little quicker and easier to do it this
way then the build that we've had to do
so this is the 92 millimeter fan I'm
just going to mount that here and one of
the things you're gonna notice I'm just
gonna put in three screws you're gonna
understand that a couple of minutes time
but essentially when you're putting the
fan on here we just want three screws
and the other thing that's important is
we observe the airflow direction there's
a little arrow here that shows me that
it's blowing out the back of the
computer that's important we want to
draw the hot air out of the chassis and
blow it out now I can plug it directly
into the board but it did include a
current limiter here and that is
actually going to slow down the fan make
it quieter because it has a lower spin
speed so I would recommend that we
install that first and then we're gonna
monitor the temperatures and and see if
we need to remove that it's a nice easy
thing to undo if we need to with hard
drive spinning hard drives like this
we're gonna generate a lot more heat
than we would with an SSD so the SSD
component when I upgrade to that is
going to run a lot cooler so I'm happy
to use that limiter I may need to remove
that with these hard drives so the
Odroid xu4 Q is right there look at that
board it is just like a Raspberry Pi as
far as form factor goes in this case
just kind of snaps together as you can
see and there we go so now we're gonna
actually mount the Odroid itself but I
did notice that I've missed a couple of
films here so we do need to make sure
that we've got all of those removed just
watch those little components they kind
of got set aside and I missed it so now
we're just gonna put these these little
connectors these riser connectors onto
these little components and it's a
little confusing if you don't have a
visual to see you know the manual makes
it a little difficult to see so I hope
that this helps you to be able to mount
this before a mounted I noticed that
there's an emmc
the input which is going to be my hard
drive so this is a jack for the hard
drive itself this replaces an SD card so
it's much more reliable much faster and
it's going to give us a lot of life so
we just kind of snap that on I would
recommend that you do buy that it's sold
separately but it's going to be more
reliable than an SD card for sure and a
lot faster so now I can mount the board
and keep in mind it's a little backwards
to what you would expect it actually
hangs the board hangs so it's not
mounting from the bottom it's mounting
from the top of the board so I mentioned
that this is the Raspberry Pi killer it
is an 8 core single board computer Jeff
really 8 cores it's got 2 gigabytes of
ddr3 RAM make sure you keep your maker
kit handy by the way here I actually
needed to pull a couple of screws
because there were a couple screws
missing with 8 cores 2 gigabytes of ddr3
RAM this thing runs up to 2.0 gigahertz
which makes it more than twice as fast
as a Raspberry Pi 3 their latest version
and we know that the Raspberry Pi is not
bringing out a new version any time soon
so this is the next gen and definitely
you know this gets you back on top of
the single board computer market so it
just kind of snaps in there and then we
need to just apply this ribbon cable
which we're going to bend just to make
it so that it connects the way that we
want it to I'm going to just fold the
cable a little bit here so that it it
looks clean and it's not kind of just
draped over everything we need it to be
able to reach the board so just connect
that in it's like an old IDE cable takes
me back oh so then that's gonna go into
the the front panel what that's going to
do is it's going to provide power to the
circuit board so we don't need to have
separate power for the xxu for at all it
also provides the signal to the screen
on the front panel so and then some
other communication as well so but the
screen is actually a color computer
screen and every every bit of the signal
goes through this cable so now the final
kind of step here is we need to connect
the SATA controller but first I need to
make sure now you see this little dip
switch here
that's gonna select between the emmc and
the SD card and I want to leave that out
as you can use either or you can choose
which one you want to use here is a
selector a dip switch for the RAID
controller I'm going to zoom in a little
bit on this so that you can see so this
allows me to select raid 0 raid 1 span
or j-bot and PM PM is basically default
mode like normal harddrive mode so
independent drives that's the mode that
I'm going to use so both switches are
going to beep off so then we plug in
this USB cable which is actually USB 3
that's another advantage to the Odroid
Xu 4 is that it has USB 3 whereas the PI
has USB 2 and it's very very slow this
one is very very fast and it's USB
Attached or scuzzy so it's very very
fast compared to typical USB connected
hard drives so just simple slide and
click finish putting this thing together
look at that Wow now I mentioned this
battery here this is sold separately but
this makes it so that if you unplug the
power from the Odroid it will remember
the time and date I think that's
important so for the extra couple of
dollars that it cost to buy a battery
for it
I just look at the RTC battery or real
time clock and that just kind of goes in
there and I just push it aside that just
helps with that and that's pretty much
all there is to it so slide the cover on
there and now it's still you know
nothing's quite locked into place yet
but look at that absolutely beautiful
now the bottom of this chassis is wide
open so check this out underneath we've
got a lot of airflow but we need to be
mindful of that if you're gonna set it
on a shelf or something like that
you know you know you need to be mindful
that it is wide open on the side is
where you plug in the power and again
there's a 15 volt power cable and it
powers everything you don't need to have
separate power for the Odroid now the
final piece is to lock the cover in
place with this little guy this is why I
didn't want to have that
the fourth screw in the chassis fan
because now with that lock in place
screw in that final screw and that's all
there is to it now
we're done everything's locked well good
and solid beautiful little rig I love
the look of it now you can get one of
these at cat5 TV /c s two for cloud
shell two of course you can also pick up
the board itself cat5 dot TV /x u4q
you're gonna need both of those
components in order to put this thing
together absolutely awesome now a couple
of other upgrades that you could get for
this if you want Jeff I love the fact
that it's crystal clear yes love the
love the look of it so I went and picked
myself up a 92 millimeter replacement
chassis fan that has built-in LED
lighting yes so it's gonna make this
thing glow really really cool one of the
things I was disappointed with there is
that I couldn't plug in my kingston SSD
right i would like to have this for a
couple of reasons first extremely cool
no moving parts it's not going to
generate heat - it's very very reliable
there are again no moving no moving
parts so if it gets bumped or if it's
you know just spinning all the time 24/7
it's not going to have that wear and
tear of a physical spinning hard drive
and they're just just ultra reliable
ultra fast and I can set them up in a
RAID one what nice so in order to do
that of course the included chassis
mount was not meant for a backplane not
going to do it for you
so I picked up one of these which I'll
post a link below in the comments
actually I picked up two of these I
should say okay for my drives so what
this is is a little different from the
one that's included and just a simple
little upgrade it looks like the back of
the hard drive right an SATA hard drive
you slip the SSD in here oh and it snaps
in there we are it's done and now it has
the exact form factor to spec of an SATA
hard drive so now it will fit that
backplane so my next upgrade is to now
switch to these Kingston SSDs I've got a
couple of DC 400s which are really
reliable right Enterprise drives
beautiful drives and that's going in my
Odroid case nice so what can you do with
this what can't you do with it well x
media server okay gaming nice you want
to do some retro gaming on here turn
this into a retro gaming sister
imagine with eight cores two gigs of ram
how much more powerful that's gonna be
the new Raspberry Pi right you want to
build your own network attached storage
device an ass now the one thing I'm
noticing is that there's no peripheral
plugins it's for what anything like well
I'm not seeing that's oh it's on the
side yeah I don't even see right over
here we've got USB and we've got HDMI
four K output total you've got ten over
100 over 1000 Ethernet there is no
built-in Wi-Fi but you can plug one into
the usb okay I would say probably put it
internally because there are USB 3 ports
inside the chassis so you can put that
in there to hide it not to use up one of
your external ports here see I was
paying attention to the bill that wasn't
here for SD cards micro SD and so on and
of course because it's USB you could
always if you wanted to grab the USB 3.0
from the inside here and run a cable at
the back or out the side there are some
ports here yes and have it go to a USB 3
hub and then ok multiple USB 3 ports
that are powered right so you can do all
that kind of stuff it's built to be I
mean it's a it's it's a DIY nass box
nice how do you like that so if you in
Nass being network attached storage you
can set this up as a new server a nice
economical server for your network be it
business or very nice when I say plex
that's a media server so that you can
watch TV shows on any of your devices
it's like a DIY build your own Netflix
server I love it and you can just low
everyday we're on Plex beautiful but
Plex through a Raspberry Pi now this is
two to three times faster I know with
better specs better performance and real
hard drives for storage yes beautiful
check that out cat 5 dot TV /x u4q for
the circuit board or cat v dve /c
as to for the case itself we've got some
other components listed there in the
description below post your comments let
us know what you think
[Music]
[Applause]
