here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Google has been accused of disregarding
European data protection laws when it
tracks users locations a cache of
Facebook documents has been seized by
MPs investigating the Cambridge
analytical data scandal Google is making
it easier to connect boot Bluetooth
headphones to Android phones and the US
Space Agency NASA has landed a new robot
on Mars after a dramatic seven-minute
plunge to the surface of the Red Planet
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere this is the category 5 TV
newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories we focus like Linux bias
Jeff Westen Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what
are you all right you're terrible actor
what this where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host I'm
satiric min and here the top stories
were following this week Google has been
accused of disregarding European data
protection laws when it tracks users
locations a coalition of seven consumer
organizations is filing complaints with
data protection regulators over Google's
tracking system the complaints draw on
research by one coalition member which
alleges people are forced to use the
location system Google said tracking was
turned off by default and could be
paused at any time by users in a
statement the coalition said that Google
used deceptive practices to make people
turn on its different tracking systems
consensus said was not being freely
given in addition it alleged Google did
not give straightforward information
about what surrendering the data
entailed the statement warns that this
location data could give deep insight
into someone's lifestyle including their
religious beliefs political activity
health and sexual orientation
organizations in the Netherlands Poland
Greece Norway Slovenia Sweden and the
Czech Republic all plan to file
complaints to their local regulators
under Europe's general data protection
regulation the seven organizations are
members of B you see an umbrella group
that represents and lobbies for European
consumer advocacy groups in Brussels in
response Google said location history is
turned off by default and you can edit
delete or pause it at any time if it's
on it helps improve services like
predicted traffic on your commute
okay fair enough yeah yeah you know I
use my Google location and I love it but
I also that's the thing but I also see
it's tricky right like I if you didn't
want your everyday movements to be
tracked then you would turn it off and
you would think turning it off would be
fine except that I'm sure that there is
a little bit of trickery in the fact
that when you want to use something it
kind of makes you have to turn it back
on right oh sure yeah and that's the
thing like when you turn on your
location data well what else is
happening in the OS level that is
tracking you for me though I love that
say I lose my phone or someone steals my
phone I can track it down right find it
but I understand that the caveat with
that is that Google yeah
or Google's partners I guess can also
figure out where I am and what coffee
shops I frequent are you where I am
standing right now and and those kinds
of things but does that bother me it's
such a hard thing like we're in that
world right now right maybe it doesn't
bother me because I am pretty much
everything about me is very socially
accepted right so I am NOT in a
situation where I am affiliated in some
way with something that isn't yeah like
I'm not trying to hide where I'm going
ever ever may I everybody knows 100%
like privacy when you're you know you
don't like it's the whole Big Brother
scenario but is is our fear of the
technology based on the movies that
we've seen is it based on the thought
that the government and there are
regions of the world that where the
government is malicious in using this
kind of data I just I just we need to be
more careful do we need to wise up and
say you can't do this I joke with my
friends that if I ever go missing
they'll know the moment I was taken
because hey I have my Fitbit on me all
right time and I have my phone on me all
the time like there's no way say
and it's not probably not gonna happen
but let's just say I got kidnapped and I
dropped my phone I still have my Fitbit
right right and is your Fitbit connect
it connects via GPS doesn't have GPS so
no matter handsome I know no matter what
I am going to be found unless the person
who kidnaps me says okay take off all
your tech right then we'll have chips
you know yeah what are your thoughts on
this because they you always have a good
opinion yeah that's true well I kind of
feel like you guys are missing the point
on this one what is the point Jeff like
you're talking about the services I use
and why you whether you would use them
or not that's not what this is about
this is about the fact that using said
services is providing unintentional
information to the company too great
right so that information I can then tap
into it I can use Google's locate my
phone service to find where my phone is
right but what it comes down to and I
mean I'm actually in the middle on this
one I don't know how I feel about the
complaint because on one point their
argument hinges on the fact that they're
saying it's not forthcoming as to how
you're using location services data that
Google is clunky from you okay so I get
that so makes sense but at the same time
you know that if you turn on location
services for a single app you're giving
us exactly so I think the issue here is
not about what apps you like to use it's
a fact that the software itself does not
compartmentalize the services that are
being used right if if Google was to say
okay fine to deal with European Union
law we are going to make it so that if
you turn location services four ways on
location services for nothing else are
activated we don't pull the information
from your based operating system we
don't pull it from your email we don't
and you need to compartmentalize the
permissions that you give for each
individual app and when you turn it on
for the one app it does not activate or
allow the collection of data from
another app that's the simple solution
to all
again I'm not a Stella forever but
that's the way I look at it yeah I kind
of see where they're coming from but at
the same time I'm going if you're gonna
turn on location services the
expectation is that location services
are on whether you want to be or not for
everything else and jumping over to our
discord the fou says it isn't just
Google that has access to that data data
wants to be leaked
there are API failures which are get
abused and Garbi goes on to say
most companies purposefully obscure why
they need the access and especially for
what they use the data and it makes
sense that Google who is a data company
and an information company that is their
commodity that is their currency the
information that they're able to collect
sure right it has to be useful to them I
mean I guess maybe I'm not in a world so
to speak of living where my location is
such a big concern the one feature on
phones that actually bothers me more
than location like care if you follow if
I'm in Starbucks or Tim Hortons or
whatever my issue is when you go to
download an app it's like we need access
to your data right we need access to
your storage we need to save a file so
we need access to your storage I can't
say I give you access to my storage for
the purposes of saving a file and the
moment you turn on access to storage I
know everything on your phone that is
collected and built in apps that they
can mine that information that one
bothers me more than anything else it's
so tough
it is tough we're at this weird time
like I they just opened a Starbucks up
the street from the studio yes and I
think okay well for all the people who
have the Starbucks app installed so I go
to the Starbucks drive-through and I get
my coffee and they then see the way that
I go to work every day and they say we
don't have a Starbucks along his route
and then certainly there's one that pops
up and it's right on my route to work
and so it's like so they opened a store
just for you they did it by the way and
I am there faithfully and so I just I
just wonder is that data
right and I can say well I can see the
way that they use it to really amplify I
guess your experience in life like they
do that but they're also what I was
thinking about it well Jeff was speaking
I was thinking to myself yeah I guess if
I were to say where to fall ill and I
didn't want people to know that but I
had to go somewhere for treatments right
and now my location services is on and
somehow my life insurance says that your
heart is palpitating right and right and
then I mean if that information were to
get out then then it could have
catastrophic catastrophic but with
Google who owns that information now
what the appetising that you have but
Google doesn't care I mean they do care
because they want that data but I think
at the end of the day this really comes
down to the fact that people don't
understand what their personal
information is being usual and it's the
I it's the idea that it's not even your
personal information anymore it's your
personal life habits those are the
things that are being collected and if
people understood that you know your
personal habits are what is being data
collected and monetized and categorized
and that's how you were being packaged
as a commodity entity I think that would
change people's perspective but people
don't see it that way they've no
convenience and they go I don't care you
know they see what I see they see an
email once a month from Google Maps that
says these are the places you visited
that's and I love it it is cool we've
got to move on to the next story but
please comment below this is a loaded
topic because we don't really know what
is the answer
mm-hmm but we're gonna see it unfold
over the next couple of years absolutely
comment below let us know what you think
a cache of face book documents has been
seized by MPs investigating the
Cambridge analytic escape data scandal
rarely use parliamentary powers were
used to demand that the boss of a US
software firm hand over the details the
observer which first reported on the
story said the documents included data
about Facebook's privacy controls MP
Damien Collins later told the BBC that
he believed the documents were highly
relevant to his inquiry Facebook has
demanded there
returned the documents were intercepted
when an executive of US tech firm 643
was on a trip to London in a highly
unusual move of the House of Commons
sergeant and arms was sent to the
business man's hotel and he was given a
final warning in a two hour deadline to
comply with the order when the executive
failed to do so he was escorted to
Parliament and warmed that he risked
fines in imprisonment if the documents
were not surrendered the paper said the
firm is involved in court action against
Facebook in the US where the documents
were obtained through legal procedures
Facebook told the observer the materials
obtained by the DS DCMS committee are
subject to the protective order of the
San Mateo Superior Court restricting
their disclosure we have asked the DCMS
committee to refrain from reviewing them
and to return them to counsel or to
Facebook but Damian Collins chairman of
the Commons Digital Culture Media and
Sports Committee says that he believes
the documents which include emails
contain important information about
Facebook and other parties and how they
handle user data Facebook and its
founder Mark Zuckerberg have faced
intense pressure over the social medias
Giants use of personal data and the
spread of fake news last month the UK
data watchdog finds Facebook 500,000
pounds following its investigation into
the Cambridge analytic affair Facebook
has appealed against the fine claiming
that the watchdog found no evidence that
the UK users personal data had been
shared inappropriately and that the
penalty was therefore unjustified talk
about topical considering the
conversation that we just had right but
to think that they showed up at the guys
hotel room and said you need to
relinquish those documents that you're
holding in that their locked briefcase
or else I could go on for hours about
this one I just don't have the time
Geoff you're right we don't I think in
this scenario I mean put the paperwork
aside I think and I'm not I'm not
supporting Facebook or coming to the
defense I think they are the
an illogical whipping boy right now they
are being made an example 100%
I think somebody who has or somebody's
have gone after Facebook and said you
are the easiest target to hit on this
one because they've been so open about
it right you look at Google you look at
Amazon you look at all these other
companies and the information that
they're mining from you and they're all
the stuff that's being used to monetize
you as an as an entity and they are more
back behind closed doors about it then
Facebook was like yeah you know what we
haven't raided our security settings now
you're completely public unless you say
don't I mean they changed the whole
collection of data they were the
frontrunners on this yeah like 15 16
years ago whatever was that they came
out I think they're the whipping boy in
this one they're being taken for an
unfair shake when at the end of the day
this is a massive issue that goes beyond
Facebook yes and I do think they're
gonna can like the the political
entities amongst the world are going to
continue to hound Facebook until it
drives it into the ground hmm certainly
had a big impact on user base stock
people withdraw his facebook like it's
hot well it was the last straw for me
the Cambridge analytical scandal was
really like the that news story happened
at exactly the time I step back from
Facebook yeah it's like the food saying
about how data is just longing to be
exploited and stolen and I use illicitly
mm-hmm yeah it's I mean what happens if
one of those companies decides you know
what screw you here's all of our files
it's gone public take that world who
would do this no like but it's I mean
you want to go conspiracy theory cuz
that's what this is all about what kind
of information have you got on us so say
what say that if Google calls up you
know the US government or any other
European unit says okay so you continue
push this issue we're gonna have a hack
tomorrow
all of your account information is going
live on the dark web including anything
you've ever searched right whatever
these companies own us they own us
there's no way you're gonna get out of
it and the amount of dark secrets that
people have that they'll try to hide
because like I'll use the privacy filter
on my browser yeah okay that just means
it goes through the extra special folder
I clear my history the fact is we live
in a world that is so open you're not
gonna be able to control it I just
endeavor to be one of those people who
doesn't have anything to hide I don't
and I feel that's me right but what if I
were to happen but what if something
were to happen where then you did
develop something to hide what right but
here's the thing it's not about
necessarily anything to hide I mean you
look at I think a while ago we talked I
was telling talking about a podcast
where they they did an investigation
into Facebook and how many categories
that they have yeah and the data it was
like that we loaded my info right so but
you take that stuff and the way that you
use your device is your way you use your
technology to create profiles about you
anybody gets that information you might
not have anything to hide but your
habits and the way you do things they
can submit any way they want like the
fact is you just can't avoid it
it's that's true wow that's dark and
ominous thank you Jeff for that bit of
input sorry I'm downer the world's about
to end you can't avoid it sorry folks
but that's why I say like I think I
think Facebook's taking an unfair kick
at the can on this one like they're
getting beat up
sorry Jeff we're gonna move on Google's
making it easier to connect bluetooth
headphones to Android phones last year
Google announced fast pair to make it
easier to connect wireless headphones to
Android devices and now the company is
taking that tech step for a step back a
step further once users set up fast pair
on an Android device that signed in with
their Google
accounts other devices at that are
signed into the same account we'll be
able to fast pair as well this allows
fast pair to work similarily to apples W
chip series that also makes it so users
don't have to repair their headphones to
multiple devices that are signed into
the same account Google is taking it
even further in 2019 when it plans to
add the feature to Chrome OS perhaps
after that it will come to Android TV as
well the feature works by sending out
signals over Bluetooth Low Energy that
will then prompt nearby Android phones
running Android 6.0 a newer with a
notification that says tap to pair with
device google promises that it's working
with tons of manufacturers like j-bird
anchor Bo Bo's and more to bring the
technology to more headphones I like
that because I feel like I'm constantly
having to repair my headphones yes
really annoying yep and I can't stand it
when a Bluetooth device accidentally
gets paired with like a neighbor's
speaker system or something although it
makes a really good gag okay I hear that
one day we went to a New Year's Eve
party at the neighbor's house down the
street but actually quite a distance
down the street and Dave cast it to
their TV yes just for the the night like
some music videos and everything well
then he tried to cast to our TV and it
was connected to them and it was still
connected to theirs now it was like
hilarious and like it was just like
another music video or something but
they message Dave immediately they were
like are you trying to watch I've done
that in a hotel yeah cuz if you're in a
hotel where they've got you know like
connected TVs I've been watching TV and
had people cast to my TV they pair it to
your TV yeah they go to the next door so
I'm like nice gag folks okay so I know
they're a frequent flier of this hotel
so I'm trying to cast at the same time
because like I can connect to PLAs at
home and all that fun casting my plex
stuff to the TV and you know so it's
like no now I'm gonna cast here and we
becomes this casting battle
with bluetooth pairing and being able to
sync it to all of my devices yes I'm
getting the point like I'm building up
my plethora of Google devices because
they're just it's so handy to be able to
use my Chromebook yes and my Android
phone and interconnect them together and
I've got a nest at home well my
thermostat is a nest thermostat so I can
control that by voice operation from my
phone I can just say the term and say
set the temperature to 32 degrees and
it'll do it so surprised you wouldn't
have said said term because YouTube will
crack down on me so hard really
absolutely absolutely I think it
would've been fun to do like the whole
Super Bowl thing one day we'll do the
demonstration though and you know all of
your devices are going off yeah so be
ready for it the US Space Agency NASA
has landed a new robot on Mars after a
dramatic seven-minute plunge to the
surface of the Red Planet
the insight probe aims to study the
world's deep interior and make it the
only planet apart from Earth that has
been examined in this way the robots
touchdown ended in an anxious wait in
which it radioed home a series of
updates on its descent NASA's mission to
Commission control at California's Jet
Propulsion Laboratory erupted into
cheers when it became clear insight was
safe on the ground the agency's chief
administrator James bridenstine
celebrated what he called an amazing day
President Trump called to offer his
congratulations and the director of JPL
Mike Watkins said the success should
remind everyone that to do science we
have to be bold and we have to be
explorers insight is now sitting on a
vast flat plain known as Elysium plenty
shot up close to the planet the red
planet's equator before landing NASA had
dubbed it the biggest parking lot on
Mars the first picture of this landscape
came back very quickly within minutes
it showed a smudged fisheye view of the
robot surroundings the image was too
getting through the translucent lens cap
of a camera positioned on the underside
of the lander the dust kicked up in the
descent obscured much of the scene but
it was still possible to make out a
small rock one of the probes feet and
the sky on the horizon a later picture
captured by the camera on an insights
topside was much clearer insight entered
the Martian atmosphere faster than a
high-velocity bullet using the
combination of a heat shield parachute
and rockets to bring itself to a gentle
stop in sights first critical task on
landing was to deploy its solar panels
which were stowed for the descents the
robot had to start generating power to
operated systems and to warm equipment
in the sub-zero temperatures that
persist on the Red Planet notifications
of the panel's said it came seven hours
after landing this will be the first
probe to dedicate its investigations to
understanding Mars's interior scientists
want to know how the world is
constructed from its core to its crust
earth is one data point and Mars will
give researchers a different perspective
on how a rocky planet can be assembled
and evolved through time so cool very
cool yeah we just watched the Martian
two weeks ago oh cool so then watching
the landing while you didn't get to see
the landing but watching NASA and the
team waiting for it to land and calling
out and you just think about how spoiled
we are with the CGI effects and the
abilities of movies to show us so now of
course I'm visualizing what's happening
based on what I saw in this Matt Damon
movie and I'm thinking and I and I
turned to my wife and I said if I was to
design insight if I was the guy who
designed it well first of all it would
have disintegrated upon leaving Earth's
atmosphere but if in my head if I
actually did a good job I would have had
a secondary unit that would have
separated from insight just before it
entered the atmosphere of Mars and it
was just a camera unit that just I took
a video of it going down onto the planet
and then sent that either to the to the
unit or back to earth
because hearing them call it out 20
meters 17 meters 8 meters that's like a
texted it's just not it just yeah
there's the anticipation in the
excitement and understanding what's
actually happening right here and how
huge this is for science and discovery I
just think it's a giant step that they
put all that money into the device and
the first thing that comes back is crap
we should have put wipers on that camera
the lens cap will go that's littering
but it didn't by the time we get up
there the whole according to coin Gekko
here is what the crypto market looked
like as of 1800 hours our time eastern
time Wednesday November 28 2018 we've
really seen a drop Bitcoin has lost 1548
dollars in 24 cents USD in the past two
weeks
of course Bitcoin kind of being the base
that other currencies are based upon
we're seeing a drop across the board as
well like coin lost nine dollars and 22
cents US dollars bringing it down so
just thirty four fifty and I should say
the Bitcoin went down to four thousand
two hundred forty-one dollars so with
that said you know how's my Bitcoin
looking it's not looking that great
right now if theory um is down to one
hundred twenty one dollars and 67 cents
US dollars as of today that means it
lost sixty one dollars and sixteen cents
u.s. over the past couple of weeks
Manero is down to 63 ten oh that hurts
ah I lost thirty dollars and fifty five
cents US dollars we've also got the
small guys stellite I lost two point
five eight ten ten thousandth of a cent
bringing it down to two point five seven
ten thousandth of a cent basically
cutting it in half from where it was two
weeks ago at five point one five ten
thousandth of a cent turtle coin is down
to zero point five seven ten thousandths
of a cent losing point sixteen
thousands of assent it's just a fraction
it's a tiny bit just a fraction we'll
see that I mean you're going through
this and I'm like yeah my turn Mekons
doing pretty good no it's not Jeff no
okay what comparable yeah I mean lose as
much just remember we can joke about it
the cryptocurrency market never closes
and it's always volatile we've seen it
dropping over the past couple of weeks
and don't really know whether it's is it
people not really sure whether they can
put confidence in it is various markets
we don't know we're not going to touch
on it Jeff nice try I saw that hand
raised we can't touch on it because we
do not give financial advice on this
show but Sasha yes I would like to say
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm
Jeff Lester
[Music]
[Applause]
