we're here ready to hang out where are
you they're coming this party was
supposed to start for another five
minutes oh they're probably bringing
snacks most like that is probably it
yeah like raspberry pie anybody nobody
okay that's the on demand oh this is
freaking me out there you go so people
can watch just posting all the links
here folks very cool Oh seriously Lord
oh come on it's just like closet
you didn't Google machine always making
fun of me to my face well
so if I
oh that was the wrong link no I feel a
sneeze coming on to you this won't make
for good television okay mute the mics
why
yes got it that's awesome
all right got it okay v dot T VI / G+ oh
hey how are you just getting the links
up is there how are you Jen Samuel
Samuel do you have a mic or a camera Oh
Mike loud and clear
welcome just getting things posted here
folks this everybody gets the link boy
do they ever embed things now a at G+
like it's so tough to get the proper
links to post just to be jerks Google
being so mean so I mean oh okay I think
I just posted that twice to that that's
my dear okay
events I have to post it three times in
order for it to show the Hokey dude all
this is I know why trees are meant to
come on come on let me post it once here
we go
there what up hey got it we got it
that's what I'm talking about can you
see this light I'm shining it in your
eyes oh hey guys
give us a sign let us know what's that
we'll give a couple minutes for
everybody to kind of trickle in here
whoa hey Darrell the link for our Google
Plus is oh did they just join it's all I
posted both links so look up how's it
going deal hey how's it going good man
you ah pretty good can you hear me okay
yeah here you great
I didn't know if my mic was working last
time oh yeah appreciate the batteries
Thanks
oh is this Tennessee Frank you got him
it kind of helped to open up the box
this time around a because everything
looks so small but it's like when you
realize that's a boatload of batteries
right there come in handy this winter oh
yeah yeah man that's good
well congrats I see Jim there Jim can
you hear us all right and for those who
are watching on YouTube welcome to the
excitement the behind-the-scenes after
party where we drink water Cheers cheers
to that
people it's gonna get rough yeah given a
few minutes for everybody to kind of
party well you're already throwing
things whoa well that was fun equate the
night tonight you always have so much
going on yeah
but makes interesting show I hope I
thought that was some pretty cool
software I thought oh yeah I agree
how do you like all my jokes because
before the show you were like don't even
try Robbie I didn't say that in so many
words kind of hinted to it did not well
when I made a joke you were like I don't
laugh Rachael shoe was giving me a hard
time cuz we're selling smiles for two
bucks on her fundraising yeah so she
said so now when I see you if I tell a
joke do I have to slip you to me every
time I want you to smile yes I feel like
that percent I smiled and I said pay up
what a hoot yeah cat five dot TV slash
studio dude yeah let's see if we got
that two bucks come on guys everybody
have a toonie we're two bucks away from
1,500 bucks raised nothin nothing seems
man caba√±a wonky something's broken its
it stopped it 1498
those got 11 days though yeah to raise 2
bucks that's 17,000 men yeah it's
possible it's gonna happen I got a bit
of a sniffle happenin here hmm probably
getting cold look your way
oh man winter is on its way let me tell
ya yeah it's been a bit it's getting
there a little bit of snow last night
yeah it's coming and going right now but
it'll soon come and say we've had a
couple cold fronts move through here too
yeah yeah we're in the I think we kind
of well we've had a lot of wind a it's
been really really like almost
frightening ly windy yeah so a Sunday I
mentioned backstage pass was down
tonight I didn't mention it on the air
but we had fortunately no trees came
down this year so far knock on wood but
our server that runs backstage pass we
had a big power surge on Sunday so I
think it's I think it's kind of it's a
lot I called it a server it's like an
old old old computer that's like the
ancient antique but we had three hours
with no power at one o'clock in the
morning on Sunday so of course you know
what's Robbie doing when he's supposed
to be sleeping I'm down here servicing
all the systems making sure that the
server's get shut down in the proper
order and yet I didn't I didn't beat the
clock though UPS's didn't hold very long
generator no not here because it's it's
that we're in the basement of my house
right now right so we're we have pretty
decent UPS's like we've got all 1500
volt amp ups is I think they're all
1500s hmm yeah there's a 1000 they're an
oldie but a goodie
no backups Pro I remember that lightning
strike you said took a couple of them
out yeah we had one where the UPS's
themselves
fried but the connected equipment were
fine they were fine so that was that was
okay because I ended up I dig I dug out
some UPS's from the garage that were
just in storage from before and put new
batteries in them Wow so it ended up
costing if I recall correctly I think it
was like 60 bucks and I replaced the
batteries and to UPS's both of them are
1500 volt amps so it was a good good way
to do it I think it was an EMP from a
nearby lightning strike that took my
whole imac out you know it could have
been an EMP here because i was actually
i was standing in the kitchen doing up
the bed and lightning bolt struck just
over the perot-like not even over the
horizon but just about two blocks from
where we where I was standing
so I actually felt like the Thunder I
know on my chest does it hit into a
surge protector yeah and we plugged into
Ethernet yeah
and whitey came through that some people
don't realize but and I have businesses
that are like this you know and and you
have you've got a bunch of good
computers and they're all on good UPS's
and good powers surge protectors but
then you've got the one the computers in
the warehouse oh nobody cares about
those computers so just plug them
directly into the wall or just into
these stupid Noma things that are you
know no good for anything but Christmas
lights and and then the surge happens of
course it hits those old computers that
are unprotected and it goes through the
ethernet and it kills everything else
and at the very least it's gonna kill
the server room switch which you know in
a server environment is a good you know
thousand bucks easy
it was a blessing in disguise though it
got me on the Lenox perfect after a
rough week with Windows 8 we went to
Walmart and bought a Windows 8 laptop
and we a week and my wife got a Trojan
horse off Facebook just like that
we bought the system so Wow
we had a 15 day return policy on it we
took it back yeah I've got some old
laptops off eBay and three Lennox on
them there you go what does know what
distro are you using again right now
point Lennox oh good you enjoying it
well I love it it's good eh yeah I
pretty much stopped looking around I was
doing a lot of distro hopping for a
while yeah and I'd stopped I mean I'll
still play with one on my little number
three I got a three laptops cheap one
and I put K Weezie on it last night I
was up late with it but KDE is just way
too complicated
yeah went ahead and I put a crunchbang
on it today
just look around and that's good that's
different a we looked at that I think in
season four so in which you can actually
watch now so that's cool
ah thanks to Samuel who just brought us
up to $1500 fishing for that two box so
you hate it yeah I feel a bit better to
even number you don't kill me yeah odd
numbers no no no too bizarre for me what
is our circle name on the hangout well
if you just go to cat5 TV /g + GPL us
takes it right there okay
and it's category five technology TV as
the circle name the community format all
Robbie what's that Daryl have you been
hanging out on the point Lennox forum at
all I haven't
we loved the system but my time is
pretty tough to keep up with too many
communities so I pretty much tend to
focus on our own right I know Peter was
saying he was thinking of maybe using
Jesse for the next one way yeah he's
pretty innovative and he he seems to do
a good job of of using unstable and
making it stable like he did the same
with Weezy and it was
it was great before we Z was considered
stable so and I wouldn't mind seeing
that because it's a little bit you know
bleeding edge it's always got the the
latest so one thing I liked about point
is even though it is Debian based you
still get Firefox that's true yeah yeah
I like point yeah I've been using I've
been using it a while I actually
installed chromium though but I notice
on the show though that I do I do end up
using Firefox just out of I don't know
but as to the web the web developer in
me wants to use Chrome but I do
there's Firefox running there I'm just
so used to Firefox I even used it on my
old iMac yeah certain things about it I
love but they've kind of fallen behind
when it comes to css3 and html5 mostly
css3 they need to catch up 25 awesome
yeah I only use Chrome might as my main
browser but sometimes I use Firefox yeah
that's what I do I still have some
things that I find work better in
Firefox just because I developed you
know I'm still here he's here but he's
not here
what are we gonna talk about he's taking
a picture
nobody's snapping unfortunate pictures
of me yeah to pick the really flattering
shots of me really flattering yeah
Robbie did you get that email that I
sent you what was it the was acting
what's that
the cactii links I did yes thank you so
much I want to I want to have a good
look at that when I have the chance did
you have any success getting that going
yeah I'm actually right now oh good
that's a server monitoring software
system monitoring actually it's much
simpler than in the video it's all you
have to do is just use apt-get install
senti and then space senti - spine and
then just and then you have to install
SN PD and then just configure that and
it's all you have to do and it's the GUI
is completely through the web browser
yeah that's cool it looked a little more
bit stagnant is it yeah it's a stagnant
monitoring that updates every uh every
minute okay I just I was gonna say it
it's the same kind of premises Nagios
but yeah it looks a little bit more
refined as far as UI goes or UX so I
wouldn't mind checking it out just for
that because I know Nagi OSes pretty
it's excellent
I love Nagi O's for our servers and
things but it's it's robust but it's
difficult to administer for novice users
Zeno's is the other one that I've been
using and its really in-depth
you have a lot more control and it's
active monitoring it's not stagnant the
other one that we use here we talked
about it on the show a while ago quite a
while ago let's see if I can I'm gonna
go to search category 5 TV
was server monitoring quick search for
that monitoring your websites and
servers for free it was something ugly a
of time left robot or something like
that
I'm robot yeah I've used that it's
decent from the for testing if web
accessible servers are up yeah yes it
was about 36 minutes into episode number
231 again Hillary was on that show so
you know you know absolutely that you're
going to enjoy it
yo yeah I like that one for just telling
me like if our our RSS feeds go down
rather than having to set up Maggio's
rules and stuff just let our uptime
robot tell me that thing guild I usually
have a do it main IP ping yeah that's
what I usually have it just to you know
100% make sure that the servers are up
yeah exactly what's good I look forward
to checking it out I appreciate you
sending me the email no problem oh yeah
from Samuel here Congrats on winning the
batteries thanks appreciate it well I
can always use more batteries win it I
could always use more batteries yeah I
got three kids and you want to talk
about battery usage all those toes
that's part of why the whole
eco-friendly thing strikes me as
important because you go through them so
fast handedly my son's asked me last
night
even like last night iggle piggle
battery died so okay so there's four
double a's right there we can dance the
pickle loves his blanket
my grandson you're going through double
A's play an Xbox like up he's a little
older than mine I mean they would just
eat through batteries yeah I use them
for my wireless keyboard and mouse that
I used to for the server's if any of you
guys seen equal lines in your local
stores I haven't even looked recently I
don't think they were Oh Devon Tennessee
yeah I can find out for you
but you you can you'll you'll have them
so you'll be the first if I like up here
like I go into Home Hardware whatever in
there hey there oh yeah that's usually
cheaper I was trying to allude to it
today but I didn't want to make any
promises that I can't and I don't really
know mister they're usually cheaper than
like energizer I can talk like that
because we're on Google+ but they're
cheaper than energizer and they're
actually better than energizer they test
better than energizer oh yeah I actually
last time I was in Canada I bought a
bunch of them bunch of packs of them
cool where'd you pick them up it was
actually it was somewhere by Barry I
can't remember exactly who came to Barry
and you didn't stop in this entire it
was on business you know how that is if
man's got a ding that's funny
well that's glance yeah where are you
actually from Rambler Ohio Ohio okay
just a short little joke yeah hey
Charles Oh H it's actually first time
I've used Google applause yeah it's
horrible I like that we can do this this
is like the technology now is here to
allow us to do a hangout but the whole I
think because it's such an evolving
platform that's what makes it orrible
it's they're constantly changing it for
you just to give you an example from
abroad
Astra standpoint we have category 5 TV
like category 5 TV on YouTube mm-hmm
Linux tech show on YouTube I also have
my music on youtube and my band and
everything else and so I've got multiple
channels so then they all of a sudden
merge Google Plus with YouTube and now
okay well I had a Google+ account I had
created a category 5 TV page and I had
created a category 5 TV community when
they said pages were gonna be deprecated
and they never were and then all of a
sudden YouTube comes along and creates a
new category 5 TV page based on my
YouTube page so now we've got two pages
one of them is not administered and one
of them is yeah and I remember I
remember a couple days ago you was
talking about that on the IRC Garbi
mm-hmm yeah that's true and it's but
it's yeah that is a bit dumb they could
have planned that well I better like if
I log into YouTube it should say okay
well I see that you also have a G+
account great
would you like to migrate your you
create a new page now I've got this page
out there that I don't access and people
are adding it to their circles and
they're never gonna get anything from me
on it but technically it's official
because it's connected to our YouTube
channel it was ridiculous
I'd rather our YouTube channel be
connected to our official category-five
community would that be nice I've not
been on my YouTube page in quite a while
I lost the password oh no you couldn't
get in password whoever stole your
laptop will get it but now that I have
Google+ I can log-in yeah yeah you got
you have to have a youtube account
because you got to go and subscribe to
our channel our channels and and like
the videos each week even if you even if
you watch it live still go onto YouTube
and just like the video just cuz it
pumps up our standings awesome terrific
and what platform do you prefer to keep
up-to-date with the show so you watch on
Facebook more than Google+ or is Google+
more effective
live tonight I go on to the website and
go YouTube tomorrow I'll go back and
re-watch the show using my Roku and for
community-driven stuff and for the
updates that I post are you doing that
through Facebook Google+ normally yeah
okay they seem to be a little more up to
date with things that you post and
Facebook okay
yeah Facebook does have a big delay on
posts if you are I guess if you like
category 5 TV on Facebook then or join
the community there get so confused okay
do I like I follow I circle alright yeah
yep any questions for us you guys yeah
well we're here Hillary's here she's not
often I don't really whatever what do
you do with your spare time what spare
time yeah what spare time I actually was
here for the live show tonight usually I
always watch it after the fact cuz I'm
never home you yeah right
well it's nice to have you live I think
it's fun to be part of the live show
it's been probably a month since I've
actually watched live show yeah mm-hmm
well you've been joining in the in the
chatroom a little more often during
off-peak hours which is nice yeah I
think sometimes people don't realize
that the other people in the chatroom
even when the show is not on oh yeah so
nice to see Rafe and Lourdes in there we
go in chat and just post a bunch of
stuff even if I don't get a reply yo
most you got well then you did it today
Tennessee Frank you went on and you
posted a bunch of messages and I replied
and oh he went offline okay close and
it's like I was typing yeah I'm here
dude Garvey Garvey used to yell at me
all the time for that
I'd say hello they I would get a
response within 30 seconds I believe
there's a guy anymore
there's a fine line between being too
quick and being a lurker they just gotta
find it so or just lurk that's fine too
I just have it here at the house in the
shop I just have it my ex chat IRC up
all the time now I know whenever I get
to watch the Lennox action show which is
rare anymore because footballs on now
but it's only noon my time and um Chris
Fisher's chat room over there for
Jupiter broadcasting they'll be over 300
people yeah yeah maybe you have 10 or 15
that are actually chatty exactly then
I'm really yeah it could be a bunch of
their computers right yeah probably
probably some IRC BOTS script just load
up the channel to make it look good
but if 15 people are talking we turn
they have a pretty active community
during the show so I well we might have
between 40 and 100 people it's
everybody's there
hope it's been a lurker I say that
tongue-in-cheek if you guys know pokey
you guys know who he is
yo was j-bot not in tonight John you
mean yo yeah John I haven't seen job
today I haven't yeah I haven't seen John
at all today usual which is yeah he's
never misses a show I know had a couple
of weeks there recently but hopefully
everything's good that's like a couple
weeks ago when masterminds wasn't on oh
dear what are you gonna do yeah I
normally always try to make the show on
Tuesday yeah good me too me too I make
an effort yeah yeah I do occasionally
322 weeks
crazy so crazy hey Charles
nice to see you your mics is your muted
yes red at the top yeah push the
microphone button where it has a cross a
brother you'd hope this is better now
yeah now I can hear me god better than
the last time it's not put together
Charles sir oh yeah yeah a couple of
different ones I that's just something I
always have on the go nice but I'm I'm
building a new a newer AMD based system
so looking for lots of advice because
I've mostly been building older systems
mm-hm
I put something up on that that part
picker website that's pretty handy for
matching up making sure you don't mess
things up
but what is Google+ looking at me just a
little just a little noise the camera
looking away just the pink in my water
that's good television right there oh
riveting just riveting captivating tell
us tonight guys so everybody's
contributed in the thing yes just
check-in yeah I hear you but you know
what every bit makes a difference that's
why I you know I've said it before but
if everybody who watches the show gave
two bucks I know it's crazy honestly
well I can't believe it I mean look at
all of the years that you've been on and
and I'm surprised that there haven't
been more donations considering you know
and sitting the size of the open source
community yeah I think it you know it's
this is our first time ever doing a
fundraiser so I think there's a lot of
different variables and you know it's
not a good time of year for somebody
that wants to give a lot yeah play it on
given some to probably go probably
tomorrow cool yeah I think we can still
do it it's we're a long ways off but if
everybody was just like just a little
bit here and there and masterminds had a
neat idea where he's just given two
bucks a week and it's like that just
makes sure that there's some activity
there and it's it's really isn't a lot
of money and stick buying a cup of
coffee but yes it makes a big difference
to found it easier just giving all at
once yeah and there have been some - who
had given you know one donation and then
I guess they got their paycheck or
whatever and then they donate it again
cuz you know they get extra perks that
way or or they just want to support the
show as much as they can
just like you say Charles its we've been
doing this for so long so it's a cool
opportunity I think for the community to
come together for us it's not the same
as I know like we saw black I'm in the
chat room tonight and he was around back
when we had a break-in and we had a
robbery and you know the community came
together for that and bought us all new
hardware and replaced a laptop and the
camera and everything else and but that
was like we needed it like it was like
an emergency and everybody came together
this is different because it's not an
emergency the show's gonna go on
regardless so I think there's there's
not the urgency there but at the same
time and we need to get out of my
basement I'll spread the word to your
people people yo yeah I don't know at
the bottom if you if you link people to
the campaign and they contribute whoever
it gets the highest contributions is
gonna get an extra prize so and that
doesn't require any money for you to do
that I posted a link to the campaign
over on the point Linux forum yeah I
figured Peter should be able to let us
do that since we love King oh yeah yeah
Peter ever gives you a hard time you
send them to me right I've been letting
people know at my shop too that you've
been trying to raise money yeah cheers
man I don't know if you saw I'm on
Peters site point linux.com I think it
is it calm guys I think I think it's got
to work not org
point Linux doc yeah I just work isn't
it come to think of it yeah right on the
homepage so that's that's good of them I
don't know if you guys saw that I'll
bring it up just so that we have a
permanent record of it but that's the
point Linux website we help support
category 5 so yeah that's that's good a
Peter for sure
that's the community I'm talking about
voice oh yeah the true open-source
community the community that would and
one of the things that Hillary and I
were talking about last night cuz
hillary was here doing a video shoot
with me you guys who follow me on
twitter know that we were talking about
how you should be able just like the
mindset of being able to just borrow a
cup of sugar it's like I don't think
twice sure you know so it's like if you
need something sure that's what we're
here for
so it's kind of a mindset no there's no
demands there it's just okay Peter
wanted to promote point Linux I love it
so let's do it
we're doing a fundraiser he put a banner
up on the site it's just but I think for
open source for Linux in particular and
Linux software and open source software
alternative software the interesting
thing is that we're building a platform
that we can promote those things so if
if like we had one of the girls from the
Linux Foundation for example she
retweeted us about our fundraiser so
it's like that to me that's really cool
because we're indirectly working
together you know we're promoting their
products the array office and Linux
itself and but we're building that
platform for other companies that are
doing it that are making stuff to be
able to promote themselves I think
that's something I've noticed about the
Linux community is people are more open
to help people you know with an Apple
iMac they always want to sell you
something like anything though there's
always there are always people in any
community that will have attitude
problems or anything else and you don't
know you know who you're talking to or
what what their life is like and all
that but I think Linux in general is
it's because it's a mindset of
free and helping others and help it's
it's different different way of it like
it's weird it cuz it's an operating
system but to me it's like a way of life
I guess yeah sure ideology yeah I think
so
yeah what you pay for your operating
system no you pay every year for
antivirus yeah no hey there's nothing
wrong with that if they buy banner space
from us actually we weep at least paid
about thirty five hundred for somebody
to come in and code a PHP point-of-sale
for us so I yeah well you got a deal
that's cheap for custom code it was yeah
yeah mind you so basically what we did
we built it on top of OS commerce so
really it was no can we we'd already
designed all the login screens and laid
everything out so it was just them
coding it was like yeah I think custom
built I think he did it in about two
weeks but the great thing is because
it's in PHP you know after the guy was
done and gone we had other volunteers
that came along and could modify the
code and well how are you for time I
never wore a minute yeah okay I'll do a
couple more minutes gates then I'll get
you the Year episode up I promised Rob
Gore that I would have the episode up
before he finished his shift so that he
could actually watch it because he's
listening listening live through
category five radio oh good what a guy
what a fan
this is awkward so everybody quiet quick
put the camera on Robbie and Hilary I've
been talking for over an hour folks I
need to stop one last question
someone hit us with something it was a
question for a thought-provoking
statement Hilary what do you think about
horseback riding
it hurts that's all I can say well dot
anybody do better hey Robbie have you
ripped any blu-rays under Linux eye I
just finished ripping one and I tried
encoding it using handbrake and when I
went to play it on XBMC it wouldn't play
oh no I haven't I haven't because I
don't have them I don't I don't have an
HDTV so I don't really do anything
that's that high res hmm but we're doing
a feature pardon me sorry we're gonna
build a vortex box in a little while
have you ever heard of that no you know
it's a Linux PC that has a blu-ray
reader in it and basically it's just a
standalone device that you pop in
blu-ray and it rips it it puts it on
your server it encodes it it's real yeah
that's nice there's no interface you
just put the disc in and it does its
thing and it ejects it when it's done
and you just end up with the file so
that's called a vortex box all one word
and we're gonna be doing one of those on
the show we're just working through a
pretty busy programming schedule right
now so but you can feel free to go and
google that and see what that sounds
great I haven't really that's fantastic
thanks yeah no problem
and that'll be coming on the show as
soon as I can possibly get to there's a
a work that goes into a feature like
that oh I believe it yes yes yes well
gang so good to see you and thanks for
joining us for yeah little hangout party
here next time bring it was like let's
go say who's bringing the beer next time
got Napa 40 in the fridge I gotta finish
I'm moving to Tennessee
I'll leave I'll leave the Hangout
running I'll just turn off our camera
kind of thing so that this so that if
you guys want to continue chatting the
Hangout is still there so what do you
guys I'm saying I'm not just I'm setting
up a bunch of servers
unfortunately why unfortunately sounds
like fun no I don't want to do it but I
have to yeah I'm gonna try and stick
these babies into your system and do my
first raid boxed you do in the under 8
system no no I'm just I'm just gonna
stick them in and I haven't even checked
the motherboard to see if I got four
serial ata headers itself yeah just to
do a basic rate I'm nice I thought you I
was gonna say run rate 5 and you don't
have as much um slow down time on file
transfer I think then you still have
redone what is he yeah what I've heard
and I could be totally wrong is that
with rate five usually you need a
dedicated rate card for that
hmm Oh what was that sorry oh just what
what I read was that usually with r85
it's better to have a dedicated rate
card and I'm just gonna do this off the
motherboard yeah it is he runs that at
best with it or you have to go right
it's the first time that I'm gonna be
setting up any raids so okay from tuning
into tech snap-on Chris Fisher and Alan
gee Alan Jude's affair Canada and he
loves NFS I mean a lot better than raid
and what I've heard that I've heard too
I mean it's unbelievable that I know
that they say it's really nice it's a
lot better than do it at home or raid I
mean that may be something you want to
look into
it's a perceive redundancy or both a
little thing yeah it's gonna say a
little bit of both and from what he was
saying on the last text snap if you get
a bad sector with ZFS it'll rewrite that
sector somewhere else
so it's almost cell feeling whereas with
raid if you get a bad sector and a drive
goes down I mean that's just it you're
out you know if your your raid array is
dead
yeah I like using unwrite that's another
or free freenas it's another one that I
use but would be important with these
because these are all he must have a lot
of packet loss yeah he's good robot oh
this is all stuff that kinda new to me
anyhow but just from learning and
watching shows and stuff if that was
like centi are not senti but um and
though happy
no Cathy I never ever used it before and
I went on YouTube and stuff and started
forum searching and I figured out how to
set it up and get it running correctly
hmm same with Tom
Zeno's I figured out how to I'm not
using the recommended operating system
because it's supposed to be using cine
OS but I can't stand it I'm not a big
fan of sin o s that's like with samba
three laptops I was watching an IT pro
show and they were talking about
networking and I thought I wonder if I
could do that with my laptop so I
wouldn't have to take a USB stick to
move files around and I got on did a
little research and found Samba
downloaded it on all three of them and
linked them together so now I get Samba
share between the three of them built
never thought of that a year ago when I
had my Mac yeah I do a lot of file
sharing my whole network is open chair
between the the NASS server is all
everything that I have is on the Nasir
we're all my operating systems programs
so all I have to do is if you know I
create a new machine I just go straight
to the to the Nash grab what I got to
and loaded up
if you can't see behind me the server
rack one of them Wow
no way I could get back to the apartment
I'm gonna go ahead and hold 42 unit
server AK basically seven foot tall I'll
catch you guys later may have a good one
see ya okay okay good night all right
fine yeah I've got so well at work so I
as you might know I run a computer
recycling project and we get all kinds
of great stuff in including lots and
lots of rack mount servers and all that
it ends up being pretty cool yeah I was
gonna work for part time first a
computer recycling place but the dude
was a complete moron
I went like he said he hired me you know
he's gonna hire me he was gonna have me
come in and take a look at the you know
his facility I get I show up he's
nowhere to be found
I call him on his cell phone he's like
please remind me you know he didn't even
realize I'm like okay never mind dude I
was and I show one in the job today
because with you know getting the easy
access to getting free servers and you
know even if they're pieces of crap you
know I could build you know rebuild them
and make nice machines but that didn't
work out my issues many people and it's
a it's a not-for-profit volunteer
organization and so there's just so many
people to come in and some people have
completely no skill at all and there are
some with lots of skills but they you
know they just I don't know what to say
they they just don't seem to be able to
apply it so there's people that have a
lot of skill but you know I guess you
know going in light they're going in 50
million different directions and can't
finish one job not me
when I sit down and tear down a machine
it's
gets tore down to its complete
bare-bones and then it gets rebuilt yeah
yeah we've had some pretty neat stuff
come in and you know some of it I've
just given away to volunteers we had a
complete Stila con graphic so to come in
in this pristine case there was actually
like a square carrying case from Sun and
everything with this this machine I
already bought one of these things many
many years ago so it wasn't of interest
to me mainly because I you know I I hate
work with the machine and it doesn't use
doesn't use the same cd-rom type format
that that you would have for a normal
see wrong so when you're burning a CD
you have to do it on the command line
with certain options in order to really
burn something that is going to be
readable by pirates and so I just said
hey you know you take this and good luck
to you
pretty neat little machine but yeah yeah
I've been using right now I just
actually purchased two new Dell
PowerEdge 26 50s they're older machines
but they're reliable I mean we have we
have a couple there and we have some
2050s and those for Atlee using for the
bigger the bigger atom so I work for a
not-for-profit that does more than just
computer recycling they're mostly job
search oriented and they use though that
nurses like a hundred and fifty
employees through different
organizations
26:50 is a nice machine mm-hmm even even
that it uses SAS 10k you know hard
drives you know it's still I mean that's
what ten of the servers that are in this
rack are and I use them as virtual
virtualization machines then actually
the top ones my firewall that make a
nice firewall machine still yeah I've
been trying to convince our assisted men
we got in we got in eight of these
storage array
and they're all there five terabytes
each their fiber channel hard drives and
he won't use them he's afraid
I think to do the research I mean
they're massive right there there yeah
they're debating politics you yeah yeah
well no no they're for you there are
only two you actually really but all the
drives like you know there's okay yeah I
know it's like steam drives yes I was
doing Drive mounted whatever channel we
had them donated by a good source and it
was like holy crap and they told me you
know the East Third fantastic really
reliable drives it's just that they
require a lot of power and they give off
a lot of heat all we have to do is use
one or two of these and it would solve
all of our storage problems like we're
running into storage problems a little
all the time and I don't know I think
he's thinking that just going out and
buying a you know off a four box and ass
box or something on you know I'd use
them which the fiber channel or the Nast
boxes fiber channel yeah it probably a
lot faster too yeah well absolutely else
Oh Edward oh go ahead no you go ahead
I was gonna say them fibre channels are
probably three times faster on file
transfers then a regular Nast box would
be well that was my thought too but you
know I don't know the guys a little
stuck in his way so I've got eight of
these things sitting there now two of
them are missing one drive in it but the
rest of them there's over five terabytes
in each each one so wonder which one of
them way oh I lifted them they're about
80 it's 60 to 80 pounds I was like
because I know the the 2650 weighs 66
pounds oh yeah this is more than the 20
6:50 it's got some weight to it but not
not by it's not as deep as those are its
oh you know I don't know it's kind of
hard to show on a webcam yeah it's
probably about a half of a little more
yeah a little bit more than half of the
26:15 yeah yeah yeah I know what what it
feels like to have one of those
seven-foot tall
Oh brains just slipping oh I did mine is
tail
we had a donation of a great big cabinet
and we could it took seven of us to get
it down the stairs I got a friend that
have you ever heard of cox
communications it's a internet and TV
provider that's like for the whole
Midwest I'll Google at um I actually
have a friend that's a t3 technician in
there backbone that works there and he
was telling me some of the equipment
that they have to carry in that place
and they're in the hub that he works in
some of them some of them servers are
full full 32 unit servers server racks
of just one piece of equipment of
switches that weigh close to a thousand
pounds apiece I'm like oh my god I
usually have to deal with one before you
servers max maybe once in a while a
six-year but biggest I usually go as
four yeah we've had a couple of compact
6u systems come in but you know older
stuff like p3 pentium 3 ya oldies but
goodies yeah well III benchmarked a
couple of things we got in one Dell
looked like a workstation and had a
couple of Zeon pros
I think it was in the 2.8 gigahertz
range we put in four gigs of ECC ran and
I can't remember what hard drive but I
benchmarked it and it was worse than a
couple of dual cores ooh yeah so I'm not
not quite sure why I mean it had dual
Xeon in it I don't know I didn't check
the drive that well so maybe it was you
know some bad sectors or something on
the drive but yeah it could have been
I've been running a number of different
tests just to benchmark everything and
trying to get different comparisons and
now I'm finding marketing business that
oh it just isn't a great way of doing
things because I benchmarked a raptor
drive using one test and it came out on
top and benchmarked it using another
test and that was kind of
middle-of-the-road compared to some
other drive so yeah I've heard good
things about Raptors but I've heard bad
things about them too yeah I know we run
it in one or two systems where we meet a
little bit more speed but that's what
SSDs are for now right yeah solid states
of pure speed but I don't really trust
solid states yet they're too still early
I haven't bought one yet myself either
I haven't either I refuse to use them
until they're at least a couple years
old well I think I'm gonna go out and
get one for my wife just so but all
experiment on her it's not a cheap and
experiment but I guess it works well I
mean I think what 120 villegas haven't
checked the prices late lately eighty
nine hundred bucks I think
hold on I'll tell ya I'll look through
my actual vendor and see what I guess
unless you get a good one I've heard
some of us there's certain Samsung ones
that are pretty good
look here yeah I'm looking through my my
um yeah the somebody is 100 here's a
hundred and twenty eight gig internal
STR sata3 six gigs a second for one
hundred and thirty three dollars at yeah
man I had good it ation 120 bucks that's
that's here in Canada I'm just about uh
Oden an hour and a half west or south
west of Robbie ah yeah that's that's the
drive here I have a big up to Canada in
a while well I've never seen a show live
and actually I have my parents they
actually live in Barry so yeah you know
there's really no excuse other than the
fact that I'm working Wednesdays and you
know I just can't get up there in time
you know I mean that really wouldn't be
that hard for me to get up there I mean
all I gotta do is do a little paw and
jump across Lake Erie and then I'm in
Canada where are you
Ohio Ohio I live 20 miles from Lake Erie
oh nice so what's that RAC doing behind
you then when you run off the rack
uh there's a 24 port Cisco Linksys
24-port smarts wit gigabyte Smart Switch
most of its networking stuff right now
arm
there's the 2600 of the 2650 that the
has pfsense on it which is a firewall
yeah open-source firewall mm-hmm um then
there's an
they're Dell PowerEdge 2650 that has
turnkey lamp server on it that's running
my test forms then I actually got to go
over and look I just meant
what are you running on machines oh it's
all in it yes yeah like web servers
yeah web servers SQL a couple teamspeak
servers then some game development
servers that I have that I'm testing for
friends of mine that are devs just some
local network stuff mine a server just
basically most people's stuff that they
have in their house
most tanks yeah well nothing like that
but got XBMC machine yeah okay so that's
the XBMC machine and connected up to our
television gear and that almost looks
like quite a pewter screen here I'll
actually give you a nice little peek
view of there's OOP there's one screen
there's one screen there's my screen to
my right there's a 32-inch that I'm
seeing you on and then there's another
19-inch and then I have three more that
go up top well yeah I'm very screen I
love my screens this is just one 42 inch
television a little wild to get
everything set up the way I wanted but
pretty good setup now yes I plan on
actually moving
thirty-two and hanging it up on the wall
and then running eyefinity three screen
on the bottom and then having three
separate and just have all my monitoring
and stuff on my main my main 32 up on
the wall so I can monitor my network and
all my machines yeah now I Finiti that's
that's fairly new for me that's only the
DisplayPort I fin it yeah I know
eyefinity is where you take on
multiplayer means
yeah multiple screens and stretch it as
one yeah um I know with these Zeus
Radeon HD 777 70 million car ditz you
can do it through because it has two DV
is a DVI I and a DVID then it has a HDMI
and a display port and you can actually
run three screens through any of the
ports so you can run you know two DV
eyes and an HDMI to HDMI then a display
port HDMI or whatever you want is your
DisplayPort and then a DVI yeah I
remember doing I did dual monitor way
back when with red at 9.1 and I can't
remember what they called it at that
point but was nothing like Eyefinity I
was running them on off a 15 and a 17
inch CRT and you had you had to edit the
one of it I think it was X it wasn't
even ex-ored it was the other one before
X or they can't even remember what x11
dot-com or something hey I still rocking
the CRT in the server rack cuz when I
bought my I'm freaking I'm rocking the
CRT because my I pull I bought off of
ebay I bought one of the DOE pull out
you know screen keyboard pull outs well
got it
keyword work good monitoring was
like a 15 inch monitor we're good for
about two days and then it pooped out
I'm like screw this took the monitor off
drop the freaking 19 inch CRT and I'm
like it'll work fine for now until I
need to move more equipment I guess you
could always you know open up that
monitor and check for bad caps or
something I suspect that's probably what
it was oh I see read away I didn't I
took it to the recycler I didn't care I
only spent like 20 bucks on it
I wasn't out much I spent more on a
remote control for this little son
Sierra Tia got a long time ago many
years ago I bought a son Enterprise
Server on eBay and I got it for 20 $20
plus $20 u.s. shipping and that's
actually about what it costs to ship it
because when the thing came in at
weighed 50 some pounds so you know I
probably got the most honest guy on eBay
because the shipping was almost as much
as you know almost exactly what it would
have really cost him to ship it and so I
bought this machine for 20 bucks and
then I sent it the sunk about 450
dollars in parts in it and then
eventually I gave it away oh it was like
um yesterday I bought a 24 port another
24 port Cisco leaks is 24 port gigabyte
Smart Switch 40 I think it was like 40
bucks
free shipping I'm like you know it's
Cisco lifetime you know warranty you
know it doesn't matter you know even if
it is it's worth the 40 bucks you know
one way or another towards 40 bucks even
if it is a piece of crap and it doesn't
work when it gets here but it looked
like you know it looked like it was a
really good condition from the pictures
so we'll see I've had good luck and bad
luck on buying stuff from eBay yeah I
think I only had one bad experience but
I haven't bought anything in you Bay in
years but and it really wasn't a bad
experience
sigh I bid on something and the bidding
ended and I won the bidding and the guy
never followed through with it which
wasn't a big deal because I think I I
won like 70 sticks of RAM for 99 cents
or something something crazy and that
was like son server RAM right and so I'm
sure the guy intended to you know
intended to have a minimum bid and he
never did and so I mean I really didn't
yeah he was not gonna I'm not gonna put
a black mark on the guy's reputation
just because of that
yep I'm actually gonna tomorrow I'm
actually going to look a guy that I know
that works at the local hardware store
he said he had a bunch of son servers in
his storage unit that he wanted to get
rid of that he has no use for go over
and take a look at them and see what
what they are if they're actually son
servers or not or if they're blades
I'm like are they regular servers are
they blades I'm like there's a big
difference between blade servers and
regular servers I'm like if they're
blade servers I need the chassis you
know yeah I might get 10 bucks apiece
for the servers you know buying them
from you but if their blades are useless
without the chassis yeah yeah yeah I
know this actually I said enterprise
server it was actually an enterprise
workstation but though the listing two
had listed it with 64 Meg's of RAM which
they knew wasn't possible and it's the
minimum Ram was 128 and as it turns out
with this particular machine it has 16
banks for RAM and one of the in one of
the it goes by 4 so you have minimum of
4 sticks in it and as it turns out he
had 8 sticks in but one of the sticks
was popped up so pushed it in and I had
128 Meg's of RAM
which was funny because I mean it was
initially it was a single CPU 200
megahertz Sun Enterprise to server and
by the time I was finished with it it
had a couple of gigs of ram in it and do
all CPU now unfortunately with that
particular server the only way to go
64-bit was with a particular version of
the motherboard and it wasn't that
version it was a holier version and so I
thought that's that's how it is with the
with the Dell Pires 2650 it's 32-bit
it's not 64 I was mad as heck what I
freaking found that out because I didn't
know you know I didn't know that it was
32-bit I thought you know most servers
are 64-bit except the really old-school
ones and I got thinking a mic I came
home got it went to load freaking what
was it it was a boom tube 11 point or
nose 10 point for whatever LTS server 64
bit popped it in is like blah blah blah
is not compatible with your CPU mic ha
not cool
oh well well I should head out good chat
with you and yo I'll see you're probably
the next time yep ok good night night
