hi everyone and welcome to new every day
this is Carrie and this is Jen and on
today's show we are going to talk about
par 5 / 5 shattering loneliness and when
I responded so stay tuned we will be
right back
this is new every day with Jenn wagger
and Carrie Webb
[Music]
thanks everyone for tuning back in to
new every day so glad that you have
tuned in again and we are in part 5 of
shattering loneliness Jen we've walked
through Psalm 139 we identified what it
is like within ourselves that we have
this needs to be with other people be
with someone significant and that's a
god-given whole like like gal said that
there's a Scott shaped hole in our life
that only the Lord can fill yes and I
think he put that there
yes two draws to himself well because
one of the things we often forget is
that sin separates us from God like
right from the beginning when Eve ate of
the fruit and then her husband Adam ate
it separated them from God the same
thing has not changed like when we
choose to willfully sin or even when we
choose not to willfully sin but we
sinned anyways about knowing it it
causes separation from God God the one
who created us who knows us who actually
meets and fulfills all of our needs and
so when we talk about the God shaped Hut
hole in our heart soon as we try
stuffing it with things and people and
never feels right because it's not
lasting so what is it that actually will
shatter the loneliness that we are
experiencing God God and God alone
pursuing a relationship with God
Almighty yes and we talked about how God
is all-knowing he really knows us and
there's that hunger inside of us to have
someone within our life to bear witness
to our life who says oh I really know
that person and then we talked about how
God is all-powerful and all press and
all present and we desire to have
presence with other people to have
someone significant in their life and
the Lord is the answer to that so
whether you are single or married
whether you are just in a new
relationship or not yeah the Lord is the
answer - shattering loneliness and so at
now we're already at verse 19 in Chapter
in Psalm 139 yes and it almost seems
like there's like a change in gears here
gen like the wording is very different
yes so we go from talking about how God
king
even who wrote the song says how
precious are your thoughts about me Oh
God they can't be numbered I can't even
count them they outnumber the grains of
sand and when I wake you're still with
me no I'm still with you I mean yes or
say you are still with me
oh that's two different things it is as
we both look down to our Bibles were
like the way this second wait but if I'm
with you you're with me do I have to
talk about this later okay well think
about that
alright every day an anomaly something
that we can't speak interesting so read
from your version Jen
all right team 224 if you would okay if
only you would slay the wicked Oh God
away from me bloodthirsty men they speak
of you with evil intent your adversaries
misuse your name do I not hate those who
hate you Oh Lord and abhor those who
rise up against you I have nothing but
hatred for them I count them my enemies
search me O God and know my heart test
me and know my anxious thoughts see if
there's any offensive way in me and lead
me in the way everlasting even if you're
reading those I kind of like it like
this it's almost like I feel I just want
to skip over those bursts because they
seem very acidic thanks and it's like
well we're supposed to like love our
enemies and everything's cool and you
know just be loving and yes we're
supposed to be loving but why are these
verses in here and you know what's
really interesting about these verses is
as I prepared this passage for my
congregation I spoke on this passage and
sometimes I like to get a video
representation of the passage like a
spoken word mm-hmm none of them that I
looked at had that passage right yes and
I'm like you can't skip over the Word of
God like you can't say oh I don't like
that part so I'm not gonna put it in and
but some there are some scriptures Jen
that I feel like I don't like that fair
enough
and I I'm there we just go WOW and I've
even said I get way
visited a lady in the hospital and I
read her Psalm 139 and I even said to
her I don't know why David put this in
here but I can't skip over it so I'm
gonna read it anyways and we'll just let
God do what God is gonna do like because
I don't know and so I as I memorized
this passage I just said to the Lord
would you teach me what this means
oh that you would slay the wicked away
from me you bloodthirsty men do I not
hate those who hate hate you and lo
those who rise up against I hate them
with perfect hatred I count them my
enemies I know like behavioral people
and so what what where'd you land well I
guess two places first place would be
because we've just traveled through God
you are all-knowing God you are all
present thank God you are all-powerful
do they not get it like these people are
rising up against you like like just get
rid of them cuz they don't get how
amazing and awesome you are Isis oh that
you would slay right like get rid of
them I think David is crying out to them
cry out to God saying get rid of these
people who don't get you because he's
he's starting to understand who God is
right so it's like and then he's like
away from me you bloodthirsty man
because he doesn't want to have anything
to do with people who don't know God
like yeah I can see the goddess and in
contrast to how amazing he is evil and
sin looks truly evil like we can't have
you can't see night without the day and
just similarly you can't understand evil
and wickedness unless you have a holy
God to compare it to yes so when you see
how awesome and amazing he is it makes
the other thing seem so disdainful and
terrible yeah my commentary here says my
zeal for you sets me against all your
adversaries David reflects jealous
impatience with God's patience towards
the wicked but leaves judgment to God
interesting and mine says this
a sense of awe leads him to consider the
wicked and to reflect on himself the
Lord as the examiner of all people
judges the wicked for the destructive
acts and speech thus the psalmist prays
that he will not be among them yeah
because at the end it says search me O
God and know my heart yeah test me and
know my anxious thoughts point out
anything in me that offends you and lead
me along the path of everlasting life
yeah so David when he says like away
from me he he knows his own heart and it
says bad company corrupts good
it says lead me not into temptation so
when we hang out with people who don't
know God the odds of us being drawn in
along with them increase yeah and so
David realizes that you know just like
and I don't know when this passage was
written if it was written pre or post
Bathsheba but it seems like his life
began to fall apart right after that
incident but he realizes what happens
when we allow sin to happen so he could
also be saying like I know what happens
with sin and I don't want anything to do
I don't want anything to do it and get
everybody away from me who does like sin
or would lead me into sin because of the
way it wrecks lives and so there's like
this righteous indan indignation that
rises up within David to say like Lord
take care of them like don't allow their
influence on people to pull them away
from you right cuz where it says they
speak of you with evil and ten your
adversaries misuse your name so there's
this idea of of God's enemies those
bloodthirsty men actually draw people
away from God and David is like I don't
want that because they miss out on on
who you are
so I think it is this righteous ignant
indignation that rises up within David
yeah and so he wants all the wicked
people to be gone so you don't stop
people from connecting and interacting
and having a relationship with Jesus
yeah and also I think Jen that if we're
gonna say that something is good mm-hmm
we have to be able to say that something
is evil yes and I feel like sometimes
the church in the name of Tolerance says
will not be quick to say something as
evil but there's a first in scripture
that says then the last times people
will call good evil and evil good yes
and that is wrong and and it's hard to
stand up and say no you know what
actually
that is wrong mmm-hmm to kill an unborn
child that has been fearfully and
wonderfully made and knit together in
someone's body yes is wrong and is
murder and I almost feel like because
this is here in contrast to what David
has already said it shows how it's okay
to speak in contrast to something mm-hmm
you know what I mean I remember sitting
in law class and we had to debate and
our topic was abortion yeah and I felt
so compromised because they said
basically it said believe you cannot
pass a law that says abortion is wrong
because what about this and what about
this and what about this and I'm just
sitting there going but God created that
little baby inside of that mom whether
it was in the wrong context or the right
context or a horrible context God still
chose to bring life to that baby and so
I'm sitting there in law class and
listening to everything going around me
because it was based on the mother and
how she felt which is fine and I'm not
I'm not saying that's wrong to consider
someone else's feelings but all I could
think about but god knit this baby
together and just because it's not
convenient or wasn't birthed in love
because we have this idea that babies
should always be birthed in love
sometimes they're not like I have never
been in that situation so I can't speak
to it but all I could think about was
but God created that baby but God
created that baby and you're right it is
because we don't want to offend
or hurt we just sort of stand back and I
had a lady ask me on the weekend she
said well well what about other people
and other religions are they not going
to go to heaven and I was like aha nuts
here we go and I said well jesus said
jesus said I am the way the truth and
the life no one comes to the Father but
by me and she looked at me and she says
I agree
yes but the fear rose up and Meeks I'm
like if I draw this line in the sand and
said well actually know the Word of God
says okay
like I our job is to proclaim truth yes
our job isn't to try to explain away
what God is saying right because there
is a right way and there's a wrong way
yeah there's a way that seems right to
man but in the way in the end it leads
to death yes and so when we don't get
something and this goes back to what we
talked about last week when people are
formed in ways that don't meet the norm
and we have to surrender it to God like
whatever situation we find ourselves in
we have to surrender to God and so many
people will say to us about sex outside
of marriage we yet but we love each
other right and it's like I have no
problem with you loving each other but
God's not going to bless your sin and
people don't want to hear that because
our culture says it's all about you it's
all about you yes and that right and
wrong is a matter of personal preference
Yeah right so according to that that
mother or that couple or whatever their
personal preference is to do a B and C
and it seems right but it leads to death
and I heard a speaker talking about you
know moral relativism and and the nature
of truth any sin you know in some
cultures people love their neighbors and
in other cultures people eat their
neighbors now which do you prefer yes I
think there's something written on our
hearts that says that ultimately some
things are good and some things are bad
yes and that God has put that there and
the Word of God helps to illuminate that
and I think that Psalm 139 helps to
illuminate the nature and the value of
you
being created and that helps us to have
a response to things like abortion or to
when when people are being devalued or
when people are murdered this is saying
it's wrong yes
and so here we are if only you would
slay the wicked Oh God because everyone
have these problems if you would just
get rid of the wicked we actually
wouldn't have to worry about all of
these issues that are rising up and
they're misusing your name they're they
they have nothing but evil intent
towards you yeah and you know do we have
that kind of hatred do we abhor those
who rise up against God and the thing is
we have allowed ourselves to be thinned
out when it comes to that like and and
I've said it I said it on this past
Sunday I said when you watch a YouTube
video and out comes they taking the
Lord's name in vain and you don't even
hear it anymore or you say well maybe
the rest of the video won't be like that
instead of just turning it off yeah it's
easier to persevere through blaspheming
the name of the Lord and yet if if you
were to sit beside someone and they were
to bring down all sorts of curses on
your life or your husband or your
children you wouldn't stand for it you
would stand up and you say no that's
wrong I'm not in agreement with you and
yet we're so easily pacified with oh
they don't really know yes or I'm
showing I'm extending grace well Jesus
when he identified then he actually made
you know he took a whip and cleared the
temple yes so we need to pause okay
where as you can tell we're getting
passionate about this and Kari and I
talked about this actually quite often
so think about what your response is to
blatant sin and we'll be back right
after this whether you shop on ThinkGeek
gearbest B&amp;H Photo Video eBay or Amazon
or even if you want a free trial up
audible you'll find the best deals and
support the shows we produce by simply
visiting the shopping sites you already
frequent by using the links on
website visit category 5 TV slash
partners for the full and ever-growing
list and help us create more free
content like this show thank you for
shopping with our partners and thank you
for watching hi and welcome back to the
new everyday we are so glad that you
were watching today and we left off with
some very passionate of responses to
this passage in Psalm 139 and before we
get back into it we need to say thank
you to our partners for partnering with
us and making this show possible to help
us tell other people about how much God
loves them and how he has plans and
purposes for them no matter what he's
there no matter what they're thinking
like god knows about it and still
desires to have a relationship with you
so we we are so thankful that we have
this platform to share this so go to the
website which is new every day TV check
out the partners page and if you need to
get something I can guarantee that you
would find it there and so here we are
we're talking about shattering
loneliness and part of shattering the
loneliness is allowing God to permeate
every single area of our life and that
includes the good and the great and then
wonderful but it's this bad and the ugly
that sometimes we struggle with and the
question that we ended off with was what
is our response to blatant sin because
that's part of that the bad and the ugly
that God still wants us to give over to
him yeah and so what is our response
well it it's just very interesting how
David after he's acknowledged that Oh
God would you destroy the wicked Oh
would you just get rid of my enemies and
I you know I hate those who who hate you
I think that when you see sin and I know
for me it's I'm like I can point it out
now I can identify it and the word of
God here has given me permission to call
it out but then what about the sin
that's in my own heart and I know we we
go back there so much gen but it's true
and
it says search me Oh God mm-hmm and know
my heart test me and know my anxious
thoughts
I love how David invites God to do the
searching because if I did if I do the
searching it's pretty superficial yeah
and to be honest Jen I I think I need to
do this more routinely where I invite
God to do it and then actually wait for
him to bring it to mind whatever you
know you might identify point out
anything in me that offends you test me
and know my anxious thoughts
well my anxious thoughts aren't good
thoughts because they're not trusting in
him point out anything in me that
offends you and leads me along the path
and lead me along the path of
everlasting love and just as I was
saying like it's so easy to be like oh
there's sin in that person their sin in
that person but instead we need to turn
it around and look at our own heart if
you read Romans chapter 2 well at the
end of chapter 1 God is talking about
the shameful things that the wicked do
mmm-hmm and talks about how people will
be like lovers of themselves lovers of
money they won't listen to their parents
they'll invent new ways of sinning you
know all these terrible things but then
in verse in chapter 2 it says you may
think you can condemn such people but
you are just as bad and you have no
excuse when you say that they are wicked
and should be punished you are
condemning yourself for you who judge
others do the very same things hmm
Thanks and even in my heart I know
that's been true for me you need if
you're a Bible word circular you need to
circle in verse 24 mine says see if
there is any offensive way me what does
your say point out anything in me that
offends you okay anything any any say
with me out there in internet land and
any like that inclusive is it is pretty
inclusive see if there is any offensive
way in me or see if there's anything in
me that offends you is very clear that's
like our response to Psalm 139
if we truly want to shatter our
loneliness we have to surrender every
area that in our lives to God so he can
actually come in to every area and so
that we will experience the knowing that
we are seeking it really comes down to
intimacy like are we willing to be
intimate with God with every area of our
life and that's one of the reasons why
people can be so lonely is because
they're not willing to be intimate like
they're not intimacy is not just about
being naked in sex like it's being
willing to be naked in conversations and
so often people will come to me after a
service and just go WOW like you shared
this morning because I'm learning that
people need to have the freedom to say
what's going on in their heart and to be
real that I struggle with this and I
don't know about this and this is what I
did this weekend because as soon as you
allow God into that area open yourself
up for intimacy it says the darkness has
got to flee as soon as the light comes
in the darkness has to flee so I believe
that we can bring we can shatter our
loneliness by choosing to be intimate
with God because the darkness which we
talked about in one of the previous
shows isolates us we choose to be
willful isolation willful loneliness
when we do not surrender to the Lord and
it was interesting because I as I've
been thinking about this I was thinking
like well and not that I'm banging on
all the time with Alumnus but I find
when I start to feel alone I just start
talking to God hmm so I'm not alone
anymore like this is really interesting
how he meets with me when I start to it
like God where are you and he comes and
he meets with me it's like he shatters
the loneliness because I'm willfully
choosing to hand it over to him so we
encourage you this week to surrender
everything to God and if this is the
beginning of the journey
then you surrender the next step dear
God I don't even know who you are but I
want to try this out yes because I
recognize that there might be an
offensive way in me that's keeping me
from accepting
in saying what I need to experience what
you have created for me to experience so
Lord let's go one step at a time
one step at a time one step at a time -
shattering the loneliness and and yes
Jesus came that our sins would be
forgiven he is he paid the price for our
sins but the the other side of the coin
is the fact that he reunites us with God
so when we recognize our sinfulness and
that Jesus came to to pay the price for
our sins then we are reconnected with
God and the loneliness is shattered yes
like yay God it is good news it is good
news and then he equips us to be able to
love and serve in community yes which
also shatters the loneliness amen can I
pray oh yeah I'm gonna do it lord thank
you that you have provided a way for us
to know you and have a relationship with
you and that you've also equipped us
with for everything that we need for
life and godliness and to live in
community with other people I pray Lord
that you would help us to stop and
reflect that you would teach us what it
means to let you search our hearts and
to turn away from things that we know
are wrong and to walk in a way that
honors you because you love us and your
plans are good and I thank you for that
god bless our viewers and our listeners
this week and it's in Jesus name I pray
amen thank you so much yes for that
reminder and thank you for tuning in
we'll see you here next week same time
same place yes I know every day
catchin new episode of new every day
every Friday morning and new
day TV we're also on Kody Roku Plex
YouTube and Facebook or if you're in
Southern California tune in every Sunday
morning at 6:30 Pacific on channel 33
television for the high desert
