welcome to new every day right here from
beautiful Dundas driving park I'm James
I'm Shelly and my name is Jen and on
today's show we're going to talk about
what does it mean to actually prefer one
another so stay tuned
and welcome back to new everyday and as
you can see once again I am joined by my
good friends shelley and james and on
last week's show we talked about how we
had gotten together to go for a hike and
out of that height came a story that
change was sharing about how when we let
God guide and direct our times really
well things happen now in the midst of
that conversation James mentioned this
verse about honoring and preferring one
another and so I just want to read that
that is from James 12 and it says be
devoted to one another in love honor one
another above yourselves and we actually
went for lunch and we thought oh we
should we got talking about honoring and
preferring one another and what exactly
that meant and so I said James can you
tell us how you taught your campers over
the March Break how to honor and prefer
one another so can you share with us
that story yeah well we kind of as we
mentioned last week are our focus was on
the medieval times and and chivalry
really so we we kind of after we found
out that they were considerably younger
than we anticipated you'll have to go
back and listen to that story but after
we found out they were considerably
younger than we anticipated we had to
kind of reef atria configure that
curriculum to to their understanding i
guess to their level right so what does
that look like right so then every day
we would go over kind of the rules right
right and how did we honor and prefer
each other what does that look like in
real life you know you're sharing right
so when we were making our swords and
shields it'd be like oh you know I'm
done my sword I said well are you
helping everybody else finish theirs
right or you are you helping them first
and then you know I'm feeling convicted
because we want it we want to put that
out and put that out there we want them
to understand that at a young age that
you know putting putting yourself second
isn't always you know putting yourself a
step behind right putting it putting
others first often not only fills your
love tank but also can fill there's
right it can
shows somebody that you care when you
take time out of your day to pour into
there's kind of thing and yours and
you're saying it from like it just
naturally came to James to say well are
you helping someone else and that's a
learned thing like that's something that
we have to actually I want to say
encourage in ourselves to say okay am I
willing to actually go and help someone
else and and I had just finished reading
some one of CS lewis is writing and he
talks about the difference between what
it means to be unselfish and what it
means to have charity or to practice
charity and he said the issue with being
unselfish is if you say to yourself well
I'm being unselfish and doing this but
it's like it fills it builds you up in a
very prideful way so really the blessing
that I want to say that comes from that
is dampened by the pride that is
associated well I'm being a good person
because I am doing this for them so in
my case well I'm going to be unselfish
because I'm going to take the garbage
out so Carrie doesn't have two puffs up
right it's like look how good I am so
Carrie versus just naturally doing
something not even thinking about the
repercussions basically like just you
know if somebody says hey I need a ride
then you meet Lee it'll be like okay
I'll give you a ride without even
stopping to think hmm okay how does the
inconvenience me or how does that fit
into my schedule kind of thing right
right I think even with honoring and
preferring that a way that I kind of
well I guess what really in this past
year um it was really Illustrated to me
funny enough through my chickens like
I'm not even kidding you I got I got
some chickens last spring now we're just
gonna pause here because I want you to
notice now James is wearing plaid not
because it's in and not because he looks
good in it but because he genuinely in
his heart and in his actions is a farmer
and loves the farm loves chickens cows
pigs farming tractors like this is who
he is so you might be thinking wow like
nice hipster and it's like I'm
ironically hip yeah magic eyes out
has that Jack was actually my great
uncles and I found a picture of him with
it on the tractor from like 1996 so the
jacket is is literally 10 years old wow
it's back in style so so I joined your
grandparents Chloe I want you to just
know he says he's talking about his
chickens we're talking about like real
ya know chicken so tell us the story
yeah I'd never had a rooster before and
I had ordered three laying hens and a
bunch of meat birds but as the laying
hens matured I noticed that one of them
wasn't acting to Hesh and it turns out
that one of them was actually a rooster
what you know great for me because now
I've got three chickens this year right
but yeah so this run another show
actually talking about roosters and
chickens and how that happens continue
one but anyways um so every now and then
you know they feed they free range
they're a hundred percent free range
they get to choose when they go to bed
they get to choose when they wake up
they get to figure to go on the field on
the road apparently the neighbors say
but they do whatever they want and I'm
totally okay with that but my rooster
protects those hens fervently and
viciously like if you're not paying
attention he may just attack you and I'm
totally a hundred percent okay with that
because they're protected right now two
stories actually of the epitome of
honoring and preferring when I find
something every now and then I'll go
outside and I'll you know flip a lot or
flip a board over a rock or something
and they'll be you know crickets or the
worms or stuff right and I know the
chickens really like to find those
things so I'll throw them on the
driveway or something and the rooster
will come and he'll make this
vocalization and he will pick it up and
drop it down and he'll wait for the hens
to come they could be on the total
opposite side of the property and hens
will come running and he will not eat
that thing that tastes way better than
the feed that they're finding or I'm
feeding them he will not eat that until
his hens have come and and eaten that so
he will not partake until they're come
first because he prefers that me honors
and he puts
first before himself another time I was
working in the garage and I heard him
crawling his head off like just crawling
his fool head off never heard him
vocalized so much before I'm like what
is going on right so I go walk out of
the garage and I see the hands are
tucked under a pine tree and he's out in
the middle of the yard crawling his head
off looking up at the top of the tree I
look up at the top of the tree and
there's a hawk there also he's literally
put himself in the gap he's he's
standing in the gap for those hands
protecting them he's tucked them away
and he's standing there showing how much
he cares for them or in protecting them
and I just those two things really kind
of hit me deep I'm just like wow am I
willing to do that like my chickens are
working yet but am I willing to do that
has been challenging actually so think
about that as we take a commercial break
are you willing to stand in the gap for
someone else hi I'm Robbie Ferguson and
I love being a vimeo pro member as a web
broadcaster i need an affordable video
hosting platform that this flexible is
me a pro membership lets you upload up
to 20 gigabytes of HD video each and
every week with no additional bandwidth
restrictions that means if you produce a
show that uses even up to 20 gigabytes
of storage your limit resets itself the
following week so you can do another 20
gigabytes and keep doing that week after
week now category 5 with all of our
shows use roughly 10 gigabytes per week
from there vimeo automatically generates
all the files that you need to provision
your RSS feeds and roku channel website
media player or even video downloads in
multiple bit rates with no limits on
your bandwidth usage or how many people
can access your files what's best the
price is astonishingly affordable and
for a limited time friends of the
category five dot TV network
will receive a whopping twenty-five
percent off the annual price all you
have to do is go through our link cat
five dot TV / vimeo and sign up today
for your twenty five percent discount to
top it off you get 30 days to try it
risk-free if you're not happy with Vimeo
Pro you pay nothing the deal is only for
a very limited time go to cat five dot
TV / Vimeo
welcome back to new everyday and as you
notice we've had a scene change because
during our commercial break our battery
died so we had to reconfigure things a
little bit so welcome back and we were
just in the process of talking about
what does it mean to honor and prefer
one another and James was sharing his
story about his chickens with us and as
he was sharing the story all I could
think about was that passage in the
Bible where it talks about how during
the Last Supper Jesus washed the
disciples feet I had heard a really good
story about that this week the fact that
it is quite possible that nobody was
there like the servant wasn't there who
would normally wash the feet and so
Jesus just immediately got up and did it
got up and did it and I was like moving
boys didn't think twice just immediately
just got up and wash the disciples feet
and the disciples are shocked they're
like what are you doing like you do you
know who you are and Jesus like it
doesn't matter who you are that's not
what the kingdom is about the kingdom is
not about you know this person is higher
than this person is higher than this
person but it genuinely is about what
does it mean to love God and love others
and so the fact that you know Jesus
stepped out of heaven to came to come
and reconcile us to him you know is a
couple things one tells me how much it
we are worth to him but secondly there
is nothing that he wouldn't do to help
in that relationship Oh Shelley you were
saying that yeah you you did have a
story to talk about so want to share
that with us yeah I was thinking about
how putting others before me how that
was instilled in me and how my family
and just meant the community of people
that I grew up with how that kind of got
in because I grew up very with I'd say I
grew up with three moms because my
sisters are a lot older than I am wow I
had the mentality of the only child
syndrome mentality is what I call it
when you kind of think you're the center
of everything and everything's done for
you and if you can't do something then
the older ones kind of like take that
lead so I think growing up and just kind
of seeing how that mentality is kind of
shifted over the years because
of all the exchange students we've had
that were my age and younger how do I
share my space with other people and
living with foster kids as well my mum
did that for a while and just kind of
living in that environment and just
having to put others before you because
you're welcome to me you're walking
welcoming them into your home and living
with them and sometimes I'd have to walk
them to school or walk or drive in the
school depending on if we're in high
school or if they were in elementary
school and I think that really helped me
grow up in that sense and putting others
before me because they were helpless at
times like they came to this country so
unknown and we had to kind of Shepherd
them through how we do school here and
how life is here in Canada so I think
that was a really cool thing that I got
to witness growing up and just we've had
over 30 exchange students come I think
throughout my life from grade 9 to grade
12 and various ages to some in high
school some in elementary school so it
was really neat just kind of seeing that
we are so far apart like some from
Brazil and some from Germany and China
and Japan just like all over the world
and just kind of seeing how different we
all are about the same time like when
you invite someone into your home or
you're living with them yeah your whole
mentality has to shift and I think
that's been an acceptance thing for me
too because it really kind of
diversifies the way that you look at
people in a sense so I think that it's
like living with different people has
helped me kind of I want to say overcome
that whole self centered kind of feel
because I did have to live with other
people all right i mean there's tons of
stories within that but that alone just
living with different people is kind of
well and that's it's interesting because
i also am the youngest child and like
there's a nage gaps of course being the
youngest child there's some perks that
come with that and so I grew up you know
and yes my world can tend to center
around me so a few weeks ago we had a
huge snow and Shelley actually because
the roads are so bad shall we stayed
over at our place and we got up the next
morning to shovel everybody out and I
look over and here
Shelley helping the next door neighbor
shovel and I'm like what are you doing
you don't even live here you don't even
know who that is and and his show he's
already done shoveling he's like clean
up shoveling making sure all the little
bits are off but I was like that really
spoke to me about honoring and
preferring others like the fact that you
just jumped in and did it and the thing
is she did it with zest like it wasn't
like I guess I'm gonna go do that it
literally was like hop hop like you
totally engaged and that taught me a lot
about what does it mean to honor and
prefer others like you just and that is
what we talked about a little bit that
hole at the difference between being
selfish and and being charitable and
that jet like you we talked about this a
little bit at lunch that caught what is
all in on your heart what has happened
the heart that are behind it yeah yeah
yeah and it's I it's totally learned hey
I think it becomes more of a natural
habit and something that comes naturally
after you've been doing it a few times
and then it's your automatic thought is
how do I help how do i address a
situation and make it better or worse
help it along to move faster because you
know you can take care of your own kind
of stuff depending on what the situation
is but you know you can do things on
your own but they can't do something on
their own so you're adding to which is
interesting because you've both said it
so James mentioned that in his camp but
they were teaching the boys to teaching
the campers how to honor and prefer one
another and Shelley just said it again
she said you know it's something after a
while you get used to doing it and so I
want to encourage you today if you're
struggling with honoring and preferring
others if he's just if you're saying
well I'm just not like that and that's
just the way I am as soon as you start
laying that card well I'm that's just
the way I am like you need to take that
card back and repent and hand that over
to Jesus and say God you need to help me
to honor and prefer one another because
as in both of these examples that we've
had it's not necessarily how a lot of us
are wire like I'm not wire that way I am
I'm having to learn how to honor and
prefer others genuinely like I've just
and it sounds so poor to say this but
I'm learning to say okay I need to be
unselfish in this
okay well I'm learning how to be
unselfish so nuts let's move from
unselfishness to charity where it's just
a genuine as you said James like what is
in your heart and I want to genuinely
give and love others well because that's
what Jesus asks me to do so I don't know
how you're doing with that but we're
gonna pray for you now did you have a
verse that you wanted to share yeah kind
of on the same note um as I kind of
unpack this after they watch my chickens
honor and prefer better than I've been
you know I I kind of started unpacking
it and going deeper in and and one of
the things kind of stood out is it it's
a Matthew 6 verse 3 it is but when you
give to the needy when you give to the
needy don't let your left hand know what
your right hand is doing hmm because
honoring and preferring is so much a
heart thing right are you doing it to
elevate yourself or you're doing it to
elevate them so you know for me the
challenge was well when I do good for
somebody do I feel like I need to tell
their tell everybody so that they think
I'm a good person am i letting my right
hand know what my left hand is doing or
am i doing it in private you know what I
mean that can be unpacked all over again
I know that's good that's good so we've
run out of time for today's show so we
want to say thank you so much for tuning
in today please take a moment to go to
new everyday TV check out our partners
page if there's any way that you could
support us either in prayer or
financially we would totally appreciate
that thank you to Robbie Ferguson and
category 5 TV for putting our show
together and thank you to you for
watching may the Lord watch over you and
keep you safe making
may you give him permission to change
what is going on in your heart and to
stir up in you self unselfishness and
charity that you would truly learn how
to honor and 44 others have a great week
see you back here next week bye-bye
you
