it's Tuesday August 30th 2016 and here
are the stories were covering this week
a successful experiment has transferred
an entire DVD wirelessly in less than 10
seconds over more than 30 kilometers
opera's password sync database has been
compromised and they're urging us users
to change their passwords Google is
going to start penalizing websites who
use pop-up ads and a piece of software
allows a standard unmodified USB flash
drive to transmit data covertly to a
nearby system even if the systems are
air-gapped these stores are coming right
up don't go anywhere now here's another
great way you can support the shows you
love from the category five dot TV
network by shopping gear best that's the
right Jeff cat5 dot TV / gear best it's
an online store for the geek streak in
you or the loved ones well of course I
mean especially your loved ones right
because cat5 TV / gearbest quite frankly
has all of the greatest tech gifts that
you could ever hope for at rock bottom
prices did they have cell phones you
betcha cat5 TV / gearbest has a wide
assortment of unlocked android cell
phones and tablets what about compute
consumer electronics those make a great
gift absolutely from high-tech watches
to action cameras headphones even
virtual reality headsets cat5 dot TV /
gearbest has you covered they literally
have it all Jeff literally really it's
like a super store right from the
comfort of your own chair add your
computer through the interweb yeah
I there's no way they have it all true
that's just a bunch of a random
electronic Sesame what about clothes yep
both men and women fashionable apparel
at rock bottom SuperDuper prices kinda
like this well look at this coat what do
you think it's a slimming mock leather
jacket I love it it's available for less
than thirty dollars plus free shipping a
cat5 TV / gear best yeah all right you
kind of got me there Wow any other
questions for me Jeff ah now that the
winter is past flying season do they
have any good deals on say you drone
copters oh my goodness well check this
out dude they have everything check out
over 500 various drones and not only
that they're available marked down by
about 32 up to 63 percent off the
regular price love it what's website
again while you're gonna find your best
on our partners pages for any of your
favorite category 5 TV shows like new
every day category 5 technology TV the
pixel shadow but of course if you want
to shop absolutely right now and you
want to go straight to the site all you
have to do is visit cat5 TV / gearbest
so that's easy catch five dot TV / your
best that's right happy shopping I'm
Jeff Weston here the top stories from
the category 5 TV news room transmitting
the contents of a DVD in under 10
seconds by radio transmission is
incredibly fast and a new world record
in wireless data transmission with data
rate of six gigabits per second over a
distance of thirty seven kilometers a
collaborative project with the
participation of researchers from the
University of Stuttgart and Fraunhofer
Institute of Applied solid-state physics
iaf exceeded the state of the art by
factor of ten the extremely high data
rate was achieved by the group through
efficient transmitters and receivers at
a radio frequency of 71 276 gigahertz in
the so called a band regulated fort or
terrestrial and satellite broadcasting
only in this frequency range of
millimeter waves are required the high
effective bandwidth available and the
enormous data rates can be realized I'm
pretty sure I messed up that sentence
some difficult it and it's really fast
that's a very small wavelength is very
very high frequency 76 gigahertz no Meg
megahertz bigger no not megahertz King
gigahertz no wow it did some
cancer-causing yeah it did something
with that thing at that place to the
other plane hurting ourselves you heard
it here that's right all right the
difficulty is weakening the signals over
larger distances though the transmission
has to be especially powerful and the
amplifiers have to be efficient now the
next generation of satellite
communication requires an ever
increasing data offload from Earth
observation satellites down to earth
supplying the rural area and remote
regions with fast internet is possible
as shown in this trial this is a cool
story I remember reading a news story I
don't remember if it was on the show but
about looking at doing satellite
internet to remote areas yeah so if this
is what they're going for and this is
the way they're testing it it's pretty
cool you could get a lot of broadband
internet on those kinds of speeds yeah I
mean from a single signal going up to a
satellite and back down to earth how
many people could actually piggyback on
that connection that's cool very neat
that's very cool all right ah pros web
sync feature lets users synchronize
their browser data and settings across
multiple devices now opera is now
warning users of the browser that an
unknown hacker has managed to gain
access to its sync system potentially
compromising the data of around 1.7
million users the region company said in
a blog post some of our sink users
passwords and account information such
as login names may have been compromised
following the hack
and encourage users to reset passwords
for third-party sites now although
operas only stores encrypted or hashed
and salted passwords in the compromised
system they have reset all of the Opera
Sync account passwords as a precaution i
don't think i've ever used opera so i
think i'm probably safe operetta maybe I
don't think I've used up right he missed
it gwg gets me all right you know I felt
like an opera like the music I've never
been to it nope never been to an opera
alright I de Paz for a sec I've been to
the ballet but never the Opera alright
yep alright okay from opera to google
google google is going to be penalizing
websites that feature intrusive pop-up
advertisements it's updating the
algorithm algorithms used to rank its
search results so that offending pages
are more likely to get lower placings
google makes much of its money from
placing ads on the mobile web one expert
said that the company wanted to give
users one less reason to use ad blockers
or search within apps instead for its
part google said that the move should
make using some of its results less
frustrating the change is due to come in
effect on the tenth of january so you're
gonna have to wait a little bit but it's
coming researchers have developed
software that turns unmodified USB
devices into covert transmitters that
can funnel large amounts of data out of
air gapped pcs the USB so named because
it behaves like a bee that flies through
the air taking bits from one place to
another is that many respects a
significant improvement over the NSA
developed USB exfil trader known as
cotton mouth that tool had to be
outfitted with a hardware implant in
advance and then required someone to
smuggle it into the facility housing the
lockdown computer which was being
targeted the USB by contrast turns USB
devices already inside the targeted
facility into a transmitter with
no hardware malfunction required at all
modification about our nation's a lot of
these devices require them to like
somebody to actually hack the device and
read it on tight but no not so much now
right out of the box now the researchers
say we introduce a software only method
for short-range data exfiltration using
electromagnetic emissions from a USB
dongle unlike other methods our method
doesn't require any transmitting
software since it uses the USBs internal
data bus the software works on just
about any storage device that's
compliant with the USB 2.0 specification
some USB devices such as certain types
of cameras that don't receive a stream
of bits from the infected computer
aren't suitable USB transmits data at
about 80 bits per second fast enough to
pilfer a 4096 bit encryption key in less
than 10 seconds hmm this is uh kind of
crazy you think you're safe with an
air-gapped computer we just say the
computer is not connected to a network
it's not connected to the internet it is
air-gapped right but someone can plug a
USB flash drive into their or give you a
flat or use just any USB flash drive to
now transmit what's going on on that air
gap computer to another system nothing
is safe conspiracy theories the pound
yes he and again as I'm reading the
story I think of a Tom Clancy novel
because of a big Tom Clancy guy there
was something done like this with USB
devices there you go tom clancy's in on
the NSA conspiracies he does have scotts
a conspiracy about conspiracies which
isn't the same thing that's true yeah
unfortunately he passed away but almost
a year now but yeah he did have special
like secret security clearance with oh
yeah wow yeah so he may have been in the
know you never know you never know took
the secrets with him alright big thanks
this week to orange ban roi w dash and
our community viewers for submitting
stories to us if you found a new story
you'd like to send email it to newsroom
a category-five TV
for all your tech news with a slightly
linux bias visit the category 5e new TV
news room at cadiz room category five
dot TV we gotta go five dot tvnewser i'm
jeff last I just like to throw tongue
twisters in there for you Jeff yeah you
know what it's it's getting there
you
