welcome to episode number 317 of
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
October the 15 2013 great to see you I'm
Robbie Ferguson I'm Krista wells welcome
welcome so let's get right into it folks
coming up in the route newsroom tonight
if I could pronounce that correctly so a
new wireless pacemaker is less than a
tenth of the size of usual and is
approved in the European Union a secure
email service is going to be developed
in Brazil Ford is working on text it
takes over your vehicle in event of a
pending collision exciting a frightening
exploit has been found in dl link
routers stick around these stories are
coming up later in the show speaking of
right it's so appropriate for you know
mid-october but there is a frightening
new virus that's making its way around
the internet and we felt it very
important tonight we're dropping format
we're going to tell you all about it
this is the worst virus that we've seen
in modern computing over the past you
know ten fifteen years so we're gonna
actually have adam pajama joining us
from malwarebytes in just couple minutes
it's going to be a great show i'm
looking forward to it and certainly it's
going to be exciting to learn all about
some great stuff we've got some viewer
questions as well don't go anywhere this
is category five this is category five
technology TV
starring Sasha dramatis
Hillary rumble
christo wells
in our kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
at eco alkalines we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference eco alkaline scom
broadcasting since 2007 category 5
technology TV has grown year after year
faithfully bringing viewers hundreds of
one-hour episodes focused on helping
with their tech questions assisting with
the migration to Linux and other open
source alternatives presenting new and
interesting tech products and providing
insightful interviews and demonstrations
all this is provided free of charge we
are now in our 7th season and it's time
to improve the viewing experience make
the show look and sound great we
continue our focus on fun educational
broadcasting stand with us as we build a
brand new studio for category 5
technology TV bringing category 5 TV to
the world with better visuals full 1080p
video and a permanent sound isolated
studio we have big dreams and we want
you to be a part of them please support
category 5 technology TV visit cat5 TV /
studio to be a part of our crowdfunding
campaign for a limited time with
contributor perks brought to you in part
by category 5 technology TV back to
nature compostable garbage bags eco
alkalines environmentally responsible
batteries free play human powered
devices nettalk duo to with free calls
to the USA and canada and no monthly
phone bill and the android-powered
rikomagic mini pc we thank you for your
support please visit
five dot TV / studio today this is
category 5 technology TV I'm Robbie
Ferguson your host I'm crystal walls so
good to see you that is always hey Ben
oh you know good and stuff keeping busy
good good yeah and yourself excellent
yeah definitely busy dad that's just the
nature of the whole thing just busy here
we go folks it's an exciting time for us
for sure good stuff mm-hmm well as most
of you know category 5 is a member of
the tech podcast network tech podcast
network if it's tech is here and the
international association of internet
broadcasters all right and you can check
out our mobile websites get my code m
dot cat five dot TV you can listen live
view the show live and that is our
mobile website available to you on your
mobile device m dot cat five dot TV ok
folks well there is this nasty virus
that's going around is called
cryptolocker and we've been seeing a
growing amount of this making its way
around the internet and so I've asked
our good friend Adam kujawa from
malwarebytes to join us on the show and
thankfully able to be here tonight Adam
it's so good to see you thanks for
joining us a category 5 no problem gotta
be here so we're going to talk a little
bit tonight Adam about this cryptolocker
Locker virus and what it means to the
viewers I think what it boils down to is
that this is probably one of the most
destructive viruses that we've seen in a
very very long time perhaps you could
shed some light on what is so I guess
frightening to the end users when it
comes to cryptolocker sure thing so a
lot of people have probably heard of
what we call ransomware which is just
malware that the FBI ransomware is the
biggest one in lost on the desktop makes
it impossible for the user to access
their files or even sir many and then a
pound to remove it by going in safe mode
or very subtle methods cryptolocker is
different and that it doesn't
necessarily lock out the desktop instead
Chris on the personal files of user
which means their documents their images
things like that and encryption dooley
with
with two different types of attention
first locally crunchy with the key that
it creates that in there with aes
encryption and then it pulls on a key
that's randomly generated from a command
control server and puts what is already
encrypted with RSA encryption without
that particular key that's only located
on the remote command and control server
it's virtually impossible each files
back so now viewers think okay well
encryption that's a good thing right you
think so so consider that here's a virus
that in fact encrypts your data with
encryption that you cannot decrypt so
there's this big problem Adam and that
is that when your computer becomes
infected with this cryptolocker malware
virus whatever you want to call it I
would call it a virus at this point with
the way that it's behaving the antivirus
products even the the highest you know
the best and well graded antivirus
products they'll remove cryptolocker but
the problem is is that it's too late all
of your files are now lost and so that's
where this you know it becomes one of
the most devastating viruses that that
we've seen in a long time is there
anything we can do when our files have
been lost to cryptolocker well we know
whatever advises to pay the fine no
namida security community will advise to
pay the fine that propel our locker
charges the users in order to get their
files back multiple reasons one you know
while you know feed the beast and the
other reason is that it's not a
guarantee which feature files back in
fact cryptolocker has a timer art if you
don't pain within I think it's 48 hours
the fine then the key to on print your
files is deleted and so it's gone for
our bird and there's no way possibly get
back mm-hmm so I think that you know
we'll talk a little bit about what we
need to do to prevent data loss an event
that we get infected and and people will
think okay well you know I run linux or
whatever but fact is most people have
one or two windows computers especially
if you're on a business network
and that's something that's really
frightening is the cryptolocker will
actually go out spidering through mapped
network shares and actually encrypt
network shares on your network so
companies who have for example a single
folder shared to all of the computers
you know they may all have what they
call their p drive or their q drive or
whatever and that's where everybody
drops their company documents and Excel
spreadsheets and they share those files
one of those computers on the network
gets infected and suddenly nobody has
access to those files they're completely
gone there's no way to get them back
exactly that's a really real threat
that's very very scary stuff so I'm
careful I've got the latest antivirus
app how could i get cryptolocker crypt
lockers is distributed via exploits
drive-by exploits um mainly as in most
malware these days is so we talking
infected files or an infected website as
an infected website that you might visit
if you're not using a up-to-date version
of java or flash something like that i
see what ever wonder this has a
vulnerability in the site kim the page
can exploit your browser or that
particular application like java if it's
a given wrong or firefox safer than
internet explorer it's really a tossed
in the air i personally say i like to
use chrome firefox is have its own bugs
and they're explorers always has come a
long way and it's much more secure than
it used to be but i still recommend
using to the micro okay but it really
comes down to just the extensions you
use there are the add-ons things like
that if job is installed for your
browser regardless on the browser right
and it's an older version you may be
susceptible to exploit mmm now do we
need to remove Java do we need to remind
us able I mean you have you have Java
running on your operating system for
instance I want to place minecraft you
have that run Java to play Minecraft
that's on your operating system
inside your browser is an extension to
use Java and that can be disabled my
firefox usually disables it
automatically okay so we can disable
extension rather than the actual program
come there's a known vulnerability and
there's no pass for it means it's best
to just disable entirely and honestly
you don't need it all the time got it
they're specific keys when you might
need Java browser we enable it to use it
otherwise you could look at youtube or
do everyone you have to worry about it
right gotcha okay um well as many of you
know where a linux-based kind of show
here so now all our linux viewers are
curious to know if they're safe but then
there's lots of other platforms as well
out there for example I'm a Mac user
primarily so linux users Mac users and
what else are we safe are we not right
now you are right now this pattern time
I've been as we see over the last few
years of Apple product Apple operating
systems have been targeted a lot more to
her yeah you know it's it's almost it's
just not much of a target as it was I
mean it puts become much more retarded
people use Apple box or even Linux
products we've seen Linux malware we've
seen Apple malware and just a matter of
time for this style of malware makes it
over but cryptolocker itself is a
windows only problem at this point
burner yes I see okay in general what
can we do to protect ourselves against
this type of thing is there something
that we can you know obviously you're
with malwarebytes and you know i use
various antivirus from ESET and the fact
is no matter what antivirus you're
running it's it's still able to get
through which is a very very scary thing
and as i was mentioning at the beginning
of this interview it will detect and
remove the virus but by then it's too
late because your files are already
encrypted I'm not a viral programmer so
I don't know how that's even possible
but it's it's very very scary so what
can users do and is there something that
you are doing with malwarebytes that is
more effective than say just our
antivirus in and of itself well those
two main methods of texting yourself or
something i cripple
Walker firstly is using antivirus any
malware type tool one that that uses a
proactive approach that prevents
execution of the malware DeMuth yeah
even we have a product our vines and
exploit other AVS have similar products
that block exploits people executing on
their system icy comets today way to
stop it however new variants who made
all the time of different kinds of
malware especially something I
cryptolocker so while today all the AVS
might protect against one variant
tomorrow they may not that gets that one
yeah so the best thing to do honestly to
stay safe from this particular threat is
to use backups backing up to something
on a network is obviously not a good
idea then using something like backing
up to to a cloud service or even this
using system restore for Windows is a
great way to keep your files safe and
you may not get the most recent version
depending on when your backup is sure
but you can still get the back
regardless you know that's a very honest
answer and I greatly appreciate that on
behalf of our viewers back up and back
up your backups I think is really the
only way that you can really protect
yourself from this I actually you
mentioned about windows restore and it's
one of those things that you know
sometimes we turn that off because it
takes up space on our hard drive but I
did find the cryptolocker was unable to
touch volume shadow copies which is an
exciting thing because windows 7 out of
the box is going to have a volume Shadow
Copy enabled for what your documents
folder and because of that if your
documents get corrupted in the documents
folder you can in fact revert to a
previous time stamp by right clicking on
the folder going properties going into
previous versions and you'd actually be
able to recover those files after you've
used your antivirus product to remove
the the infection so that is effective
but where that goes wrong is like you
say what if you your volume Shadow Copy
is out of date or what if you know
you're running low on hard drive space
and so Windows allocates very little to
your volume Shadow Copy and you've got a
massive documents folder then that's a
big problem so
backups definitely off-site backup some
of the off-site backup solutions and
I'll put some links in the show notes
for episode number 317 but they'll
actually offer incremental backups which
means you can choose a date before the
infection took place and actually revert
your files which is a fantastic way to
do it amaro bus has get a secure backup
solution as well anyways or as long as
it takes them off of your system tourism
some less secure like I said doing it
all network even having a a USB Drive
you back all your files upon if it's so
plugged in it's acceptable game it's
gone and with you we've tried to
reiterate to our viewers as well Adam
that a raid one architecture for example
as a backup solution is not actually a
backup solution it's it's a fail-safe
against a failed hard drive yeah
cryptolocker is a real wake-up call to
us in that if you get this infection
both of your drives are corrupt you have
no access to either of your raid one
drive because the files are gone there
they're destroyed you have no way to
decrypt them so and also you know there
are situations where people are taking a
drive and backing up once a night kind
of thing and taking it off site which
sounds like a good plan but I've seen it
happen where so then you know the
infection takes place five o'clock the
night before manager comes in the
following morning plugs in yesterday's
backup drive and it over right sit with
all corrupt data sir then again you end
up with absolutely nothing so it's got
to be something that cannot be touched
and as Adam saying cloud backup
solutions these days are fantastic and
as long as it is read-only as far as you
know ken the virus access it no so
Dropbox pogoplug all those things are
fantastic but if they're mounted as a
mounted network share on your computer
say you know pogoplug gives you a pea
drive well guess what your p drive is
now wiped and destroyed and all the data
that's on it is destroyed that's a very
real threat so does mallory virus was
that we have to dust off your old zip
drives maybe that's a scary thought boy
oh boy i think they're about time for a
comeback just say i like this
I love floppies that kind of stuff and
that's the other thing too I mean
thinking about zip drives and you know
tapes tape backups and things it's very
time consuming to recover a large backup
if you're working on a network that is
you know large-scale business even a
small to medium business it can take a
lot of time and it can result in a lot
of down time and a lot of loss access to
files if this infection takes place
because the backups take a long time to
transfer over and to restore so that's
another thing does malwarebytes
currently protect against this iteration
of cryptolocker and our pro version does
okay and that's because it has a product
it prevents malware from execution our
fleet vision was just a scanner and
won't do any good I mean it removes the
cryptolocker virus Bauer yeah you're not
printed everything but we don't we don't
proactively protect unless it's with our
probe is IC so we're looking at the
difference between you know malwarebytes
the free version as being able to
recover from you know any other kind of
malware that just yeah it is removable
and then you're back to operation but
here's a situation where it's it's your
files are gone if you don't have that
active protection place unique it's a
scary stuff so good to hear the Linux is
immune right now and we would get our
windows viewers we want to get you
hooked up with a copy of malwarebytes
anti-malware pro Adam thank you very
much for providing that for us for our
viewer tonight we're going to give away
one copy tonight basically you know this
is a big threat and I wanted to take
time tonight to discuss it for the sake
of our viewers especially those who are
still using Windows on some of the
machines you know the question will come
up is this a threat to virtual machines
and i'll let you tackle that and you
know what's the scenario as far as you
know virtual networks and people are
using linux as the host and and windows
as a guest for those who are not quite
understanding what that means what is
the threat to those users uh well i mean
if they're using a windows system in a
vm presuming that and and they get
infected with cryptolocker presumably
they don't have a shared drive that's
just constantly open to the vm they
should be okay but that shared drive
even it's on a Linux system is connected
to the window system than the p.m. and
like we're going get to to those styles
and encrypt them so let me it's really
just about what what follows store where
and if it's running all these illness
from as the average is complete so we're
talking if a user has like a network
attached storage or Nastor I've on their
network somewhere that has Samba sharing
to their virtual machine then the
virtual machine can become a conduit for
this cryptolocker tip if you something
like VMware and just use a shared drive
I mean I usually set it up to have so
that you're the ho song I've even your
home your home folder Linux is connected
to your vm through the chevron it's
always open and if you get that dip the
locker to the windows has access to that
should drive in that home folder so if
you have any documents or images in
there it can still crack them it's it's
whatever that however letters doesn't
always like to use file extensions so it
might be sick it depends I guess a
reboot this thing will corrupt ODT files
and you know Excel you know all the
Libre Office spreadsheets everything so
yeah it's it's scary stuff so if you
have any kind of network shares then you
gotta be wary of this so yeah if you're
using a vm to do any sort of you know
sketchy searching around on the internet
you know doing things like going places
the youngest silly trust sabaki passaic
drive mm-hmm connected to it or even
have it connected to all you know
unsecured network yeah we're going to
see this coming through infected
websites do these have to be malicious
sites i mean people sometimes say oh
well you've got this infection you've
obviously been surfing for pornography
or something like it's not always the
case there's diff types of infections
vectors out there one is called mavar
ties months basically it's just bad guys
hijacked the ad service for any sort of
legitimate
as the as the site modes as from yet
service it could be overtly redirecting
or executing malicious code system okay
so it could be any site really that's
out there and yeah it's kind of to the
system administrators of those sites to
keep them up to date and make sure that
there aren't the exploits and that's one
of the reasons that we got away from you
know bulk source code that's available
everywhere because that's so easily
exploited and something you've got you
know all this kind of malware happening
through your own website so that's a
whole other topic all together but Adam
thank you so much for your time tonight
we're going to give away a copy of the
software I don't know if you want to
stick around for that but I know Adam
kujawa is joining us in the chat room at
category 5 on freenode so if you have
any questions about malwarebytes about
cryptolocker specifically how that
affects you what kind of scenarios I
mean certainly run them by Adam run them
by myself and we'd be happy to to assist
you with that but it it has to be taken
seriously folks this is a really really
big threat and it is going around Adam
what kind of scale are we talking about
as far as the the largeness of the
infection radius is growing yeah and and
this particular now where is just a
start I mean it's honestly it was easy
enough for them to create this then it's
just a matter of time before the source
code freeze of this malware or other
styles come out and we start seeing Gary
it's all over the place you the same
thing it's obviously affecting windows 7
windows 8 so it's not something that
it's not specific to older computers or
anything like that do we think that
we're more susceptible with say XP that
is going to be losing support in April
oh haha oh yeah XP is going to regularly
support or yeah the biggest problem is
that the third party applications that
run you don't like Java and explore they
only use older versions of my XP yeah so
those are more susceptible to infection
as well as XP itself but yeah in any
operating system if it isn't yet it will
be yeah okay so if you're running
windows XP be warned that it is going to
be a base
expiring come April and when that
happens there is not going to be any
security support so it's almost as you
know you wonder if there are hackers
lying in wait with a whole bunch of new
malware just waiting for their
opportunity they just wait a lot of them
have actually already switched over to
seven or eight they looking for the
bigger targets yeah there's less and
less uses every day of windows XP will
everyone like they were listening to
this is probably telling all their
friends and family why are you so using
mesquite Yeah right okay animal thank
you so much for your time we're going to
give away a copy of malwarebytes
anti-malware pro so draw bot is in the
chat room here we go folks let's see
there are your names loaded up from the
chat room i am boris karloff Carly Eric
1212 Jim Gregory Dave may do good luck
everybody
sansa riff and sprint cowboy this is for
a free copy of malwarebytes anti-malware
pro this is the proactive version that
will protect you against these kinds of
infections on a Windows PC and it will
work in your virtual machine I presume
to it hey Adam like you could install
this on your virtual machine so that it
then protect you yeah very good dreamer
and Dennis Kelly Reb D genk Oh wouldn't
be ironic if Adam Kajal want one just
saw your name fly by there I mean that's
funny if that happens we would read rock
good guy in garb Ian Napa polar bear
flying through the names bill 777 gwg
guru of the matrix we go things are
speeding up again this is a free copy of
malwarebytes anti-malware pro what's
this worth to us Adam what is the retail
value on this product when T five
dollars yeah very good is it a lifetime
license do we need to renew it once a
year it is a lifetime license very good
speeding things up going through all the
names
Opie and Paul are 8
we go I can sense its get end come on
drama get one it's drama come on does it
offend any like I gotta show everybody
it's only fair I've seen Adam Katawa
about 40 times there I think he's gonna
win just feel it and the winner of
malwarebytes anti-malware pro is rd boy
gratulations congratulations rd Blair
all you have to do is email us and just
claim your prize I'll send it over to
you by email Adam Kujawa great to see
you again and always nice to have you on
the show thanks for being here oh and i
just realized i've got you up on green
screen there we go always nice to have
you here thanks for being on a show and
thanks by the major cheers and thank you
for all the knowledge that you share as
well where can we find you where can we
find more information about about you
know basic security essentials and all
the stuff that we need to know well our
website is more about side work and we
actually have a blog that you post on
multiple times a week of all of our
security experts do and then some it's
blog down malwarebytes org nice and easy
very good okay i'm actually having a
blog post about cryptolocker right now
anybody so we asked what I thought about
here great okay well what we're going to
do we're going to actually track that
post down and we're going to put a link
to the direct post in the show notes for
episode number 317 here at category five
dot TV that way you can just get all the
information that you need to protect
yourself from cryptolocker again Adam
always a pleasure thanks for being here
and having a fantastic night alrighty
thanks thanks this is category 5
technology TV i'm your host Robbie
ferguson i'm crystal balls frightening
stuff this October mm-hmm but hey it's a
good builder yeah you know it's serious
stuff and I've seen a few infections go
through and it's it's not easy to
recover from well folks I love that we
are still seeing loads and loads of new
registrants on our website just want to
give a quick share
out to everybody we're gonna tackle this
list we've got God knows 00 joining us
chachos tattos like nachos and tacos
together oh nice touches with cheese oh
how did I end up that's yours 1 go we
systems tech uh-huh um sir hey Mulaney
wences Senor Senor Senor wences see I
help you did help I did JH 5375 nice to
have you joining us here at category 5
and Gavin trex welcome welcome welcome
Gavin tricks nice to have you here hey
if you'd like to be a part of our
community it's absolutely free triple w
category five dot TV just click on
register up at the top there and you'll
be a part of the show always nice to hi
um thank you to all the viewers to send
in donations to us this week it's an
exciting time for us as we gear up to
build studio D and to see your donations
coming through that just means so very
very much and is just you know it's not
just about you know building a studio
and everything and there's more
information about it at cat five dot TV
/ studio but it's about you know we're
going to have a soundproof area which
you know is there are times when you
know the children upstairs they do make
a little ruckus them and you know it'll
just be it'll be nice for the viewers
but I think also for the for the crew
here it'll be wonderful to have our own
permanent space so right now we're still
in limbo and it's been about a year yes
so you know being in this temporary
space it's worked well for us but going
to be really nice to have our own space
well it is time through that time again
oh that time at which time the news time
the noose the noose or as my use da da
da did I am I I don't even have to make
music but no you don't cuz they're just
music
there you go take it away everybody all
right so miniaturize wireless pacemaker
that can be inserted into the body
without invasive surgery has been
approved has been given approval for use
in the European Union okay so it can be
inserted into the body but it's
non-invasive exactly that sounds like an
oxymoron find out out okay Delta
developed by us startup and nano two
nanos Tim nanos temperature the device
is designed to be implanted
intravenously intravenous all I can't
talk cuz intravenously there we go
directly into the heart all right as I
than ten percent of the size of a
conventional pacemaker and uses a
built-in battery so i hope that battery
works also so it's pretty small yeah
they call it non-invasive but they're
gonna jab it into your heart just inject
other hope it works well but but you
know no wires so yeah it happens when
they have to change my battery I don't
know is it one of those lock it for
seven years and they just figure no
maybe there's a button outside somewhere
where you have to test it you know like
you test your smoke detector this is
this wireless so maybe it's like
communicates with maybe it's Bluetooth
Oh looking at I've only got forty
percent battery life left clear that's
how you charge it ya can't use a little
roller coaster this week too low that's
true that's true yeah brazil's
government can I do one oh well I wasn't
even done mine oh you're not done he's
so pushy well I'm sorry thought you were
I thought you were done I wasn't fine
you know that's fine so as I was saying
before expert said it was an exciting
development by at a very early stage the
pacemaker has yet to receive full US
Food and Drug Administration approval
hmm now you may go how I may thank you
so kindly well okay as I was saying
before I was so rudely interrupted right
brazil's government has confirmed plans
to create a secure email service that
follows revelations of cyber security
techniques used cyber surveillance
techniques rather used by the US
the UK president dilma rousseff posted a
series of tweets over the weekend saying
that the move was required in order to
prevent possible espionage she added the
country's federal data processing
service or sir pro would actually be
charged with developing the system do
you think it's possible encrypted email
like legitimately and you know it just
seems as Erik would say fraught with
peril could it actually happen like
would it not have been developed but I
think it's gonna cause if like I think
it would cause more problems than it
would fix yeah that's why I think you're
gonna have to have the decryption key
for the encryption and of course that's
gonna be the first thing that's gonna
get exploited well we just go back to
snail mail that was fun it was fun it
took a while everyone likes getting
nothing like sending mail to the same
city that you live in and it takes four
weeks that's exciting it's always nice
to receive something but it's always
obsolete by the time it gets there Oh
biggie biggie alright know you're
excited for this okay so let me guess
the caption here okay all right so new
car holographic projection imagery
triggered by the gas pedal now available
from high-end a holographic imagery yeah
a guy acting a person rejecting a guy so
it froze you basically the read your
toes all the time that there's a person
yeah so that you can practice running
down people aliens yeah good okay was I
close no well no alright so back to like
what it actually is but good guess thank
you yes so a car that takes control of
the steering wheel when it detects the
risk of a collision is being tested at a
research facility in Germany for it said
the obstacle avoidance system first
warned the driver of danger and then
took charge if they did not react so it
gives you a chance and then if they go
then they take the wheel it's a guy in
front of you yeah yeah exactly and if
you don't do something what happens then
they take control of it for you
interesting yeah yeah so the system
scans
200 meters ahead by using three radars a
number of ultrasonic sensors and a
camera which are all installed in the
vehicle mm-hm sorry hopefully what if
it's dirty or something no you can't
quite see and then people are just like
just like seeing women something the
thing just keeps on swear there's a bug
on your camera what would it think of a
fly was flying toward it never drive
this thing up in Muskoka folks you'd be
swerving into the oven under the rock
cuts huh huh it says an additional
built-in display shows a warning sign
and sounds a chime how nice then if
necessary it applies the break scans for
a gap in the road ahead and steers to
avoid a crash alright according to barb
samer summer z SH I give you all the
hard name I know you do a vice president
of product development up for the
European division obstacle avoidance can
sense a pedestrian or object coming
across the path of the vehicle if it
doesn't sensi responding accordingly by
break where maneuvering it will take
over the firm showed off the tech at the
facility on the lamella Belgium last
week Krista cool i like my idea better
yeah it just keeps projecting people out
there so if you were like really
desperate like Robbie I'm sure you could
start up your car and project all your
little friends and they can have friends
around you you have like a you would
always have her friends you have a trunk
party pop the trunk turn on the
projector just having beers with a bunch
of holographic friends six pack is all
you need even though there's 30 people
it's great alright and exploit i should
say an easy-to-use exploit back door has
been found in seven different models of
domestic routers made by d-link and
Planex the back door if used would
actually allow an attacker to take
control of a router and a modem and spy
on a home users internet usage d-link
has acknowledged the existence of the
exploit and said that a fix would be
available by the end of October so far
the back door does not seem to have been
in the wild the back door was discovered
by security researcher Craig Hefner who
reverse engineered the software used to
control the dlink dir 100 router deep
analysis of the code revealed that a
string of letters if used the right way
could unlock remote access to the gadget
a string of letters it's called a
password 1234 yeah it 1111 explanation
aren't password yeah that's kind of
scary because I mean you don't really
realize but your router is kind of the
it's the entranceway to your home
network right so we're hearing more and
more you know as we're kind of on the
topic of security tonight we're hearing
more and more about hackers if you will
maliciously using remote desktop on
Windows PCs to access the users computer
and install Trojans and install malware
to allow them to access other systems
and and even you know create botnets and
things like that so having access to be
able to control your router that's
pretty serious stuff it gives them
access to every computer on your network
they could open up ports SSH to your
Linux box and start brute forcing it you
never know unless you've got CSF
installed so that is scary it is not not
nearly as cool the story is the car
though true i'm justin is just a router
yeah i know a bunch of hackers pictures
Navon is cloning away at it that's all
right though yeah but if you're
interested you can get the full stories
at category 5 TV / newsroom this week
the category 5 b's newsroom was
researched by roy w nash and had we had
contributions by our community of
viewers if you are interested in a story
that you think of is worthy of on-air
mention you can email us at news room at
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm crystals thanks Krista this is
category 5 technology TV and you'll find
us online a triple w dot category five
dot TV I know that you've sent in your
viewer questions this week yeah you go
and part me and go to cap five dot TV /
asked to do so you can also send them in
through the chat room through email at
live at category 5 TV I'll do
going to pull up some of the emails that
we have received this week and we'll
just get through as many of those as we
can sure appreciate you sending in your
questions folks that's what the show is
all about and that we love having your
interactions so thanks for that all
right so here's a question from bill 777
hey Bill 777 he says I had submitted a
question asking how to find a fine wine
I had installed in point Linux but after
checking some it said that I only had a
helper installed maybe a better question
would be how do i install wine in point
Linux okay so you're probably thinking
says he's also new to linux oh okay so
you're likely thinking okay well let's
have some wine I'm some wine where do
you get the wine where is this 5 I've
learned that all these kind of names any
food is ridiculous so I'm starting to
learn huh okay so what I'm going to do
I'm going to bring up my computer screen
here there we go and we're gonna go into
synaptic package manager two packages
really that I need I don't even know my
password its password password Oh more
solid than that password one capital p
yes I have an at symbol as a a it's
fantastically secure yeah now everyone
knows it yeah okay wine just do a quick
search you'll see that there are two
packages that I need first of all wine
and wine tricks that's it I've already
got them installed wine wine tricks done
so you select those mark for
installation select that mark for
installation I already have it so it's
all good so then what's going to happen
is you're gonna say okay well where do I
find it I don't see it all I have wine
configurator and wine uninstaller but
where do i go to actually run a wine
program so what we need to do is first
of all go to terminal I'm thinking out
in my head whether I've got a windows
program that I could actually use to
test this with to show you and I don't
really yeah imagine that on Windows
application handy but go to your
terminal okay
and I do have a Windows application
running because i'm actually using
desktop presenter in order to stream my
desktop to you right now this is a
windows program and I'm actually using
this to stream my desktop and we've
covered that on the show before but with
wine all you do is you've got your
executive also say it's notepad.exe so
you just proceed that with wine and it
will run it with the windows application
layer so then you'll be able to run that
application as as if it was in Windows
but you're not let's see if I have any
installed dot wine drive c program file
no windows let's see if there's anything
in Windows there might be like a notepad
or something when help is there an exe
regedit there is no pad okay so see like
if I tried to run notepad like it's just
you know there's no way to do that so
what we do is we go wine notepad.exe and
there it is that's notepad okay so I'm
just using that as an example because I
happen to have notepad right on my
system perfect so let's say notepad was
the application that you wanted to be
able to launch so now to create a
launcher for that I could create a right
click on my desktop go create a new
launcher and we're going to call it an
application and we're going to call this
notepad we know it's a windows program
we're going to browse to it all the same
and you know what I can actually do I've
got it here I know that it's in my the
path is irrelevant the path just happens
to be where my notepad is wherever
you've put the executive all file that
you want to run c / windows notepad.exe
so then perceive that with wine okay and
then should be good to go so now I've
got a launcher on my desktop called a
notepad there it is and if I double
click on that it did nothing
that's so exciting it's put extra
quotations around it
maybe we need a path to wine user bin
it's probably on Ben let's try low key
where is wine it's in ya user slash bin
slash wine ok so let's edit that user
slash bin slash wine let's get rid of
the till done let's actually use slash
home and Robby dot wine drive see
windows notepad.exe have I done that
right there we go so it didn't like that
I had a tilde instead of my actual home
folder so you notice now when I
double-click on notepad it runs just
like a windows program it is in fact the
windows program it's an executive will
file Exe this is obviously a wine
version that they've created it's like a
clone but it is as you saw there it's an
executive ille file and it is running
just fine and you'll be able to run
quite a few things and as I showed you I
am running desktop presenter which is a
package from telestream and this is this
is a Windows application it's not
designed to run on went on Linux what it
runs just fine so we're able to actually
show you the desktop because of that so
wine doesn't really have a menu item as
such you have to kind of run the windows
executive all file by using the wine
command preceding the the file name so
if you've got like a setup.exe you would
go into the folder in terminal or you
quite often you could just double click
on it and it will run it with wine I
think that's probably going to be the
case in point Linux you can try that but
if that doesn't happen you can always go
into terminal and do it that way hope it
helps wine pardon me and wine tricks and
wine tricks is a tool that from the
terminal you type in wine tricks or hit
alt f2 and type in wine tricks and it
will allow you to add packages configure
wine a little bit easier and and that
can be very very helpful to have so hope
that helps let us know please or i can
always remote in with teamviewer as well
good stuff
so here's a question from David David
says Robbie could you please give
instructions for doing the DD terminal
command to copy and boot up an ISO with
specifically bridge Linux lxde can I
give instructions on using DD to copy
and boot up an iso and I so is a
different if file a different hard file
system type it'sit's iso 9660 or
whatever so you can't I mean you can't
boot from something that you've d deed
from an iso file and you can't really DD
from an iso file not sure I follow you
because it's it's a different
architecture its like if you just
directly copied a CD the contents of a
bootable CD to say a hard drive or say a
flash drive and tried to boot from it
wouldn't work because it's a different
architecture you need to actually
convert it to a format and DD wouldn't
do that d D is for creating an image not
a bootable one that is for / files like
the type of architecture that it is so
hard drive is a hard drive is a hard
drive a CD and I so is a CD it's an iso
file you can't interchange the two
because they're not compatible so you
can't just an iso something as a
bootable hard drive so can you clarify
that for me because i'm not quite sure
maybe i'm just missing what it is that
you're asking and I apologize for that
but love to have you clarify that for me
okay then here is a question from rob
gore hey Ron core oh I have set up a
piece pc with windows 7 and Linux 00
window seven and Linux ok just won't
give a heart attack you got to be
careful man you gotta say I set up
winning the gamut I 70 and by the way i
happened to also put windows on there
for games or something i don't know
where you use three games or something
yeah okay that's what I was
in Windows 7 I want to be able to
disable all USB ports apart from one
that will be used for the USB receiver
for the keyboard and mouse I know that
you can edit the registry to disable the
USB but I believe that will disable them
all to know if any way that you can
select which USB ports to disable any
program available that you know of yeah
you could use specifically you could use
endpoint protector from endpoint
protector CA we had bugged an oros on
the show and we talked about it it
specifically allows you to shut down
parts of your computer USB ports for
example specifically whether or not
that's necessary I love to know a little
bit more Rob gore is Rob in the chat
room by any chance um here's the thing
is it so that people can't plug in an
external hard drive because you say you
want to still be able to use your mouse
and that's the problem if you and I just
put it up a virtual machine here so
we're going to take a look if you were
to disable all your USB ports guess what
you can't enter your password to log
into the computer anymore because you
have no keyboard if it's for hard drives
for example that's probably the scenario
here correct me if I'm wrong you don't
want people to be able to plug in a
flash drive and copy files you don't
want them to be able to install stuff
from a flash drive or plug in an
external hard drive and things like that
if that's the case then we're going to
take a different approach we wouldn't
just remove specific ports or we
wouldn't turn off ports we would just
turn off the drivers that allow USB mass
storage and that is a registry key but
it's extremely extremely simple i want
to show you how easy that in fact that
is i'm just booting up this virtual
machine the back end i created a little
while ago it's an image of the laptop so
we'll just see if that still works that
i can actually show you this rug or it
wants me to activate windows i'm not
doing that cuz it's just for the test
but it is going to let me in so forgive
the fact that it is showing as a an
unlicensed copy it's not those of you
who watch the show know that it was
there just as a test
but let's go into our reg editor because
I don't want you to be afraid of doing
this because it's it's super super easy
always back up your registry Rob gore
and any viewer who's watching this file
export he says here just quickly on its
to disable the flash drive and USB Wi-Fi
device okay Wi-Fi is a bit of a
different ballgame see how I just
exported that but here's what I want to
do and I seem to be I'm just exporting
so that you see that yes that's the
first thing that he did was export his
registry okay looks like I'm already
there local machine then system groom
control set control no I want to go to
services and in services you'll see one
called USB store this is how we're going
to get rid of the storage driver and
this will actually work quite quite well
for you I'm going to post all the info
in the show notes for episode number 317
USB store there it is okay so there is a
particular key here called start and
that is you know when somebody plugs in
a drive what do you want to do three is
the default it means basically it's
going to mount the drive for is we're
going to disable the ability to plug in
USB Drive so now if I hit okay now if I
actually reboot my computer now if i
plug in USB mouse it's going to work
just fine if i plug in a USB flash drive
it will do absolutely nothing it's just
as simple as that so Wi-Fi i'd have to
look into because of course it's a
different device that's being detected
you can disable USB ports in the bios
but then again it's going to be a case
where your keyboard and mouse are not
going to work anymore whether windows
can be specific enough i think only if
you knew the device or if it's real
security issue like if this was a
business and not just a personal
computer i would say yeah get endpoint
protector dot CA go there and in fact
you know what actually I would still
suggest you check it out Rob Gore if
that is a concern for you for your
windows machines check out endpoint
protector CA there is I just I just
remembered
a personal version of the software and
if you could get that and install it on
your computer then you would have the
ability to shut down all those kinds of
services and it would be at a price
that's reasonable for an individual user
good if you don't see it on their
website contact them off of the website
tell them that I sent you and III know
that they'll help you out so endpoint
protector dot CA thanks for the question
Rob gore here's another question from
orange man hey orange man it says dear
Robbie and host I wrote to you last week
about getting skype working on my Zoran
I think you may have may have understood
what i meant i was using the cheese
program to test the sea of zora and
responded to the video camera then
closing it down and then right running
the skype program on its own okay it
works with audio only in the video is
not working I did this with both systems
since I have a skype system using Zoran
and my parents use my old laptop with
Iran on it I did look into the options
of video it seems that the paths of the
video is pointing to USB camera in skype
yeah dash or / dev food / video 0 okay
since I'm not very confident with using
Zoran at the present i still use windows
it seems to me that the problem is that
the camera is working on the laptop via
cheese but not responding when using
skype maybe the path is not right on
skype so i think i may be misunderstood
is right that's our thing yeah which is
not altogether impossible I was trying
to put my head around it because it
sounded like they had two webcams and
we're trying to figure that out let's
bring up i'm going to show you one last
thing that i can show you here orange
man it was orange man yeah and and that
is because you say cheese is working
let's bring up cheese this is going to
turn on oh you know what I actually have
skype loaded here I'm going to quit
skype now sounding video cheese it's
gonna bring out further tiny little
webcam here hello okay so from there
what I want you to do is go edit
preferences because we know that the
camera is working in this scenario so
here we are in g's and it's working so
now look at
vice and just make sure that it is what
you're expecting in in in skype so if it
says / dev / video 1 then we know that
we need to change skype to actually use
a different path for the device itself
because it's very possible that skype is
just defaulting to whatever the beef
like whatever the first thing is and
that could be any device right so try
that then go into skype once you've
closed cheese once you've got skype pop
go into the settings for skype which is
options and video devices and you'll see
that dev / video 0 is selected if it's
anything other than what was selected in
cheese then you want to change it there
so make sure it matches what cheese said
what cheese said that's what cheese said
but oh I made it funny I hope that that
helps in if it does not if your webcam
still is non-functional then I think
that the best thing that for us to do
would be to have me use teamviewer to
log into your system and take a look
that would be really the easiest thing
for us to do so you let me know and just
tell me if if that fixed it like if that
helped all right otherwise I'm kind of
shooting in the dark a little bit
because trying to figure out what it is
that you're experiencing and and I just
hope that we're of some help to you all
right and here's one from rick van leash
out it says here is a picture of a setup
watching the live show nice let's see if
i can bring this up for you there it is
like that oh he watches in the dark
that's cool she got backstage pass up
there watching us from behind there's
the intro who's that guy who's that that
bald nerd calm and the chat room cool
and you need more screens I think bigger
screens would probably be a good idea um
I could just mount them on your wall
like a life-size Robbie head right there
oh that's gonna scary yeah watching us
in life science oh thanks for sending
that in I'll give you a hundred viewer
points let me know what your user name
was and I'll check your email as well
just to verify and if I see it
registered I will give you a hundred
viewer points nice yeah thanks for the
picture very cool do we have time oh
that's all we got anyways that's perfect
perfect chat room thank you so much for
being here tonight Krista you have fun
oh I have fun all the time except when
you insult me before the show before the
other person it puts a dapper during the
show so insane I'd be a lot more fun if
you're a nice to me but it's nice to be
here I am a hard guy to work with I tell
you it's difficult you put up with me in
it just smile that's that's that's all
you're gonna give them that's it you're
just gonna leave it at that like that
I'm you can't say the ninth Street money
no don't say anything at all ah boy oh
boy hey this has been a fun week so far
we've had a couple of late nights
getting things ready for the for the big
fundraiser cat5 TV / studio thank you
very much for the graphic work that
you've done there it looks great I think
Krista's done a fantastic job branding
it and making it look nice so please do
check it out cat5 TV / studio all the
details of their don't need to get into
it right now but that is all the time
that we have for tonight i believe next
week eric kid is going to be joining us
and the topic that we were going to look
at tonight before this virus hit last
week is is looking at how to use entropy
to increase the security of our
passwords we're gonna be doing that with
Eric next week so make sure you you
stick with the stick around Garvey yes
unfortunately and we've never really
mentioned it on air but it's in my blog
space fish passed away yes very couple
weeks ago so
informations there in my blog but such a
wonderful little he was with us for
about two years a little bit more than
two years I think so and it was actually
when you first started on the show we
had a feature where we were naming space
fish and it was a lot of fun so major
tom it was and that's it it's not me
that's the end of my cat five career as
well no absolutely not no it's better
easier it's just less work to tend to so
there you go all right folks have a
fantastic week see you next Tuesday yes
we hope you enjoyed the show category 5
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
