welcome to new everyday episode of 156
it's just me I would like to say that
Pastor Lawrence is here but he's not
took some vacation that's okay it's
summer we're meant to relax enjoy the
nice weather and so that's what he's
doing so today you've got me we're going
to be talking about the vine the
branches and bearing fruit and what that
means for our Christian life I'm sure
you've heard part of this message before
we're gonna take a look at another
perspective that for me was an
eye-opener kind of changed the way that
I live my life
don't go anywhere this is new every day
with Jeff listing and Lawrence Cruz
[Music]
welcome to new everyday so glad to have
you here you may have noticed right off
the hop it's just me running solo this
week and believe it or not next week as
well summer hit and hasta Lawrence is
like I'm out of here going on vacation
so that's what's going on so it's just
me this week but that's okay we've still
got a lot lots going on lots to talk
about lots of good things coming up
there's lots so you don't want to miss
it a few things we're just gonna get
right out of the way if you have missed
some past episodes of year every day you
want to catch them you can see them all
on demand we've got them Kodi Plex Roku
Facebook YouTube and on our website new
every day da TV I'm Geoff Weston I'm
gonna be hosting this week and we're
gonna be talking about a few different
topics all jumbled into one because they
are related and we're going to start
right off with our key scripture for the
week and it's John 15:5 8 I am the vine
you are the branches if you remain in me
and I in you you will bear much fruit
apart from me you could do nothing if
you do not remain in me you are like a
branch that is thrown away and withered
such branches are picked up thrown into
the fire and burned if you relate remain
in me and my words remain in you ask
whatever you wish and it will be done
for you this is to my father's glory
that you bear much fruit showing
yourselves to be my disciples so we're
gonna be centering the message today
around that and that's where it's all
going to start off is with the idea of
the vine and the branches now if you've
been in the church for a long time
chances are you've heard a sermon around
the vine of the branches and the whole
concept is pretty simple to understand
you've got the vine which is Jesus and
the branches which is us and when you do
any sort of gardening and you run across
vines you know that you can cut off all
the branches that you could find but as
long as the the roots and the the core
of that vine are still intact everything
is solid everything is healthy and it
will continue to grow and so it's kind
of a lot like our Christian life in that
way and that's what Jesus is talking
about in the scripture is that we are
the
branches and as long as we are attached
to the vine which is healthy then we
will be healthy and because Jesus is the
vine he it is through that conduit that
we get all of our spiritual nutrition
just like regular branches get their
nutrition through the vine he is that
conduit for us and so that concept in
and of itself is not hard to understand
it makes sense if you grew up in the
church if you don't grow up in the
church and maybe you're seeing this for
the first time you're like what what are
you talking about Jesus is a vine and
I'm a branch last time I checked I'm a
human being and that's true and a lot of
cases in the Bible use Jesus will use
symbolism and you will use parables and
stuff like that and so in this case it's
symbolism to give you a real-world
picture to help you understand better
the way that the Christian life works
and so if you've got that concept you've
got the idea that you know I am a branch
I am attached to this vine Jesus and he
is my lifeblood he is what keeps me
alive he is what keeps me growing then
you understand the whole concept of
salvation and what that means for
eternal life and so the other side of
this scripture is when you've got a
branch that doesn't produce fruit it's
cut off and so that's leading to the
idea of you know those who aren't
Christ's followers who end up in hell
and that's a whole another topic that we
can talk about but as far as today goes
we're going to be talking about the
living branches those branches us the
Christians that are producing fruit and
what that means and so if you are a
Christian that views yourself as a
branch from a vine think of a garden my
wife and I we've been doing some
renovations in our garden lately taking
down a bunch of trees that we don't want
and we're going to be doing a bunch of
landscaping and there is this vine that
grows all throughout these trees and as
we're trying to take down trees we're
having to separate the branches of the
trees from the tangled branches of the
vines and so with the concept of our
spiritual life being that we are like
the branches
it doesn't matter what goes on around
those branches are strong and they can
hold on it all it takes is a simple
grasp and that branch can continue to
grow and grow and reach to the top of
the tree and it will infiltrate
everything and that is the way our
Christian lives should be if we are a
healthy productive member of the body of
Christ we should be infiltrating
everywhere around us to influence those
for Christ makes sense it does to me
hopefully does to you if it doesn't send
me an email let me know comment on our
webpage comment on our Facebook YouTube
and we can have further discussion about
this but I want to move on to the next
concept in here and that is the whole
idea of the bearing fruit and so that
seems to be the part whenever I hear
messages about the vine and the branches
and the bearing fruit the bearing fruit
is the part that seems to get left out
and so what I'm thinking about I'm going
what does that mean to bear fruit
what is that fruit what is it that we
are expected to produce as Christians
that shows how healthy we are as a
branch and really there's one scripture
that tells you and it's in Galatians
it's 5 22 to 23 but the fruit of the
Spirit is love joy peace forbearance or
patience kindness goodness faithfulness
gentleness and self-control against such
things there is no law and so with this
main scripture that we were looking at
before in John he says if you remain in
me you will bear fruit and so what that
means is a very good litmus test of how
healthy you are as a Christian and how
healthy you are is a branch connected to
the vine of Jesus is what is the fruit
that you bear and so to take a look at
that scripture in Galatians and go the
fruit of the Spirit is love joy peace
and continue through that list how do
you do in that area that is the test of
your healthiness as a Christian so let's
take a look at the first one love
everybody knows what love is so much of
the world is seeking love it's searching
for love and in a lot of cases what the
world thinks it finds in love is not
real love
it's infatuation it's endearment it's
many things but it may not be that true
agape unconditional God driven love I
mean you look all throughout scripture
you'll be able to see exactly what love
is and how it is unconditional and how
sometimes love is the thing that breaks
through when everything else crumbles
around and as you look at your your life
as a Christian how is your love how is
that fruit of love are you bearing any
are you producing tons of love what does
that look like is it just simply being
kind to somebody or is it loving them
unconditionally
is it despite the fact that they
somebody may have harmed you or wronged
you that you still show them love and
that that that love from God that goes
beyond hurt beyond our limitations as
human beings to say it doesn't matter I
still love you there's joy do you have
joy are you producing joy all of these
fruits that we're talking about are
wonderful things they're great but
there's one part of fruit of bearing
fruit that seems to be forgotten and
that is the fact that fruit is not for
us if we are the branch on a vine and
we're producing fruit it's no different
than say an apple tree and if an apple
tree produces fruit it doesn't produce
apples for itself it produces apples to
be eaten that's why God created the
apple tree is to provide fruit for us
you look at orange orange trees lemon
trees any type of tree that bears fruit
or plant the berresford and the fruit
itself is not for that plant it is to be
consumed by others and so the fruit that
we produce as Christians
is meant for others it's not meant for
us and if you can wrap your head around
that concept that who you are
and what kind of life you live as a
Christian and how you produce fruit is
not for you it's for somebody else it's
for maybe someone in your church
somebody in your family but I would
venture to say that chances are the
biggest market for your fruit is the
non-christian our fruit is meant to draw
others to Christ and we're gonna dive
into that a little bit more when we come
right back after this break stick around
for more for new every day
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high-quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap v dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cat5 dot TV
slash shirts
welcome back you're watching you every
day and if you're just tuning in maybe
you're watching on kpgb in Southern
California and you're going isn't there
supposed to be two of them yes there
should be Lawrence's away on vacation
for the next two weeks so I'm running
solo and that's okay
but if you are just tuning in let me
catch you up to speed we are talking
about the vine being Jesus the branches
being us and the fact that if we are
healthy branches attached to the vine we
should be bearing fruit and that fruit
is the fruit of the Holy Spirit as
listed in Galatians and so we're
starting to go through that concept and
just before the break we talked about
the fact that the fruit is not for us so
many times we hear that you know you
should be producing the fruit of the
Spirit you should have love joy peace
patience are you feeling patience yeah
it's one thing to say this is how I'm
feeling and this is what I seem to be
you know struggling with in that area is
to make more patience but at the end of
the day the fruit that we bear is for
others so the question then becomes are
you loving others do you have joy for
others are you patient with others we
can go down the list and when you look
at your life you need to do a self
assessment and you go how am i doing how
is my fruit bearing I know that I'm
regulary regularly assessing this
because I work in a very people-oriented
job every day it's it's either phone
calls or emails or meetings with people
that in a lot of cases are frustrated
they're upset they want something to be
done to fix the situation that they're
in and so I have to be aware of how I am
exhibiting myself and how I'm
interacting with others but even not in
work maybe it's at home am i showing the
fruits of the spirit to my family our
families are so often the first ones
that bear the brunt of our bad side
because they are the closest to us they
get to see us at our worst because
that's what we're most vulnerable is at
home in
safe environment and so if you're at
home and you're watching this look
around at your family and kind of take a
self-assessment on how am i doing am i
showing love joy peace patience that's a
hard one for parents sometimes I know
before I came here today my kids were
driving me nuts it's summertime and we
wanted to have a bit of a you know
family day but the kids just kind of get
stir-crazy it's the excitement of
there's no school what are we going to
do and then they have breakfast and I'm
bored well that's the way it goes and so
it's like wow why don't you go do this I
don't want it why don't you go to this I
don't want to at that point I could feel
my patience falling off and so I
regularly have to assess how is my firt
how am i dealing with my family how am i
dealing with my friends it's it's easy
to always exhibit the good side when
you're having a good day but what about
when you're not having a great day when
stress is through the roof or maybe the
finances just aren't there and you've
got to make sense of the world maybe
you've lost your job you're sick I mean
we've had a past episode where Lawrence
and I we're talking about what ifs
what's happened and what if God could
fix that situation it's kind of the same
deal here is what are you dealing with
and what if you chose actively chose to
exhibit the fruits of the Spirit in a
meaningful way to those around us what
about to your enemies and I know to say
enemies I don't believe I really have
enemies I like to think that people like
me and I like other people and we
generally live in a society where nobody
really deems themself to be an enemy or
to have enemies but there's people we
don't like there's people that don't
like us and what do we do with those
people I know that there's people that
grate on me I would rather not be around
they might be you know for lack of a
better phrase the life leeches you know
that kind of person that just sucks the
life out of the room when they show up
how do you exhibit the fruits of the
spirit with that
do you show them patience and kindness
what about your relationship with God
and I realize that if you're attached to
the vine you are a healthy branch you
have a strong relationship with God but
in those tough moments how do you relate
to God do you have joy in those tough
times do you have patience when God is
working something through in your life
the fruit we bear is meant for those
around us I've already mentioned that
but God is included in that He loves us
He loves us so much he wants to be with
us and so often if we are struggling
with some negative fruit it gets in the
way of that relationship with God it
gets in the way of our relationship with
our family members and our friends and
our co-workers and so you want to take a
time to assess how you're doing how is
your fruit bearing and if you think
you're doing great
go ask your family go ask the people
that have some influence in your life
that will give you an honest opinion I
could tell you I give myself a great
scorecard all the time and then I
regularly check in mouth with my wife
how I doing pretty good okay what about
the not pretty good well you know
there's times you could do this better
or there's times I wish you would you
know show more kindness in this area or
be patient here and I go okay thank you
I need to be able to learn to be a
better version of myself and produce
better fruit and I realize I'm making
this sound very spiritual and all that
but at the end of the day it is if you
allow the Holy Spirit to influence your
life and to be thoroughly connected with
God in a strong relationship where your
daily talking to them you're reading the
word you're going to church you're
worshiping you are being obedient you'll
have a super healthy relationship with
that vine and as a branch you will have
a very strong grasp to the vine you'll
have a very thick
stock that will reach all across your
life and influence so many others with
really potent fruit so as you go into
the next week ahead I want to encourage
you take a moment in every situation
before you react and go how can I show
some of the fruits of the spirit how can
I show love how can I show joy how can I
show peace how can I be patient and
continue to go through that list and if
you need a reminder take a sticky note
or you know print off that scripture put
it on your mirror put it on the fridge
maybe put it on your car seat so that
when you get in the car and you have to
face rush-hour traffic where you want to
flip everybody the bird and yell and
scream at them because road rage kicks
in then you take a look at that and go
God give me patience give me peace
around my enemies those who want to see
me fail God would you overflow me with
love and love that makes no sense to
those around other than the fact that
it's not for me it's something more God
let my fruit draw others to you and if
that's your prayer as you go through
your week I know that God's gonna be
faithful and he's gonna answer that he's
gonna help you out because the fruit we
bear is meant to bring others to Jesus
and especially those who don't know him
and for those that do know him or may be
going through a hard time
it's a refresher it's revitalizing that
faith that they've got and if you know
that every aspect of your life and how
you show yourself to others is to bring
them closer to Christ then that's gonna
change the way that you live because if
that's your thought process in
everything you do you will take a very
intentional approach to the way that you
interact with others a very intentional
approach to the way that you do
everything in your life because if you
are a fruit bearing branch
you are connected to the vine and by
receiving that fruit those around you
are going to receive the goodness of
Christ so let me encourage you in the
week ahead to self identify those areas
where you need to produce better fruit
and those areas where you're rocking it
on the fruit front keep it up
send us an email let us know how you're
doing and you know if you want some tips
some tricks some help even somebody just
to pray with contact us Lawrence and I
would love to be able to connect with
you on it anyway thanks for being here
have a great week catch a new episode of
new everyday every Friday morning at new
every day TV we're also on roku kodi
plex youtube google play music podcasts
and news book or if you're in Southern
California tune in every Sunday morning
at 6:30 on kbdb TV channel 33 television
for the high desert
you
