here are the stories recovering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom the
US federal government has just
authorized its stop to shoot down any
drone they consider a threat Google Plus
is shutting down after it was revealed
that Google covered up a data exposing
bug default passwords such as admin and
password will be illegal for electronics
firms to use in California from 2020 and
Hyperloop transportation Technologies
Inc unveiled its first full-scale
passenger capsule offering the world a
peek at the future of travel these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
it's like Linux Bias Jeff Weston
gentlemen you're building a brand-new
beautiful website what are you you're a
terrible actor what this where acting
comes into play you're supposed to act
ok I'm building a really cool website
are you building a really cool website
just because Jeff is confused doesn't
mean you have to be visit cap 5 dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host I'm
Sasha Rickman and here the top stories
we're following this week the US federal
government has just authorized its staff
to shoot down any drone they consider a
threat the provision was added to the
routine reauthorization Act for the
Federal Aviation Authority the FAA the
watchdog that deals with America's skies
and has invited the ire of civil
liberties groups who are unhappy at the
blanket nature of the shoot-down
authorization under the proposed laws
preventing emerging threats section a
new part has been added that allows a
wide range of federal departments to
disable disrupt or seize control of any
drone that is thought to pose a credible
threat to the safety or security of a
covered facility or assets the key thing
here is a wide range of departments not
just the military the Act lists a range
of increasingly harsh measures that can
be taken against an unauthorized drone
ending with use of reasonable force if
necessary to disable damage or destroy
the unmanned aircraft system or unmanned
aircraft the provision is of course
entirely understandable the increase in
the use of and sale of advanced drones
does pose a potential threat to
government facilities after all it
doesn't take long for somebody to think
that it was a good idea to mount a gun
on a drone it's not clear what limits
and oversights would work best
certainly a requirement to get a warrant
is unlikely to work given the fact that
drones can
here at anytime and unexpectedly but
limiting the grounds for witcha drone
can be disrupted or destroyed would be
one starting point or granting
protections to legitimate drone usage as
it stands as soon as the president signs
the bell your flying machine can be
taken down by a huge number of federal
government employees and there will be
pretty much no recourse that's what gets
me is what do I do if they shoot down my
drone thinking that it's malicious just
because I'm flying around right I mean
how do you know right okay so I can
understand a facility like a government
facility okay yeah don't fly your drone
up to the door of the White House that
makes sense
super common sense sure right but what
about like we live close to a base a
military base and they do
I don't excursions they're probably not
call this crew exercises suppose we'll
say in the community like they come out
and they fly around and they do things
right so say I'm just locally in a field
and they fly they drive by and now I my
drone is in their space but they've
they've encroached on me I haven't acted
on them they could shoot me down sure
they could I mean they could if we
didn't live in Canada where this law is
not the thing you're right
but yeah yeah so this is the thing
that's the problem so it seems a little
bit to blanket shoot down the drones
sure and you know that's exactly where
it goes right right oh yeah well it's
and I I thought immediately of two
scenarios first scenario is when some
guy thought it was a good idea to be a
citizen journalist and fly his drones
over the the wildfires and firefighters
started spraying it with the hose Oh to
shoot it down and and it was news at the
time and yeah it's probably a good idea
that if you're gonna shoot drone footage
with your drone that you stay the heck
out of the way of the fire department
that's trying to battle a blaze right
right so be crazy yeah there are times
when I think yeah you're you're you're
not being smart here but that drones
a tough thing because how do you
regulate something that is so freely
available in the consumer market right
that I can learn to fly on a twenty
dollar drone and then buy a $500 drone
and be flying a big heavy thing that
could kill someone if it hit them yes
you know it's an interesting technology
because it feels like it's drones are
faster than the law right now sure right
yeah scrambling to catch a same thing
shoot it down okay except that it seems
like in this news story
anybody can in anybody in the federal
government can shoot down a drone yeah
pretty much
and c128 he makes a good point that the
folks in regards to the flying over the
the wildfires we're flying in a no-fly
zone so maybe that's what it comes down
to is hey if you're flying in a no-fly
zone if you're flying too close to an
airport yeah you know what you're gonna
get shot down right because I would much
rather your drone get shot down and take
out a passenger aircraft so as long as
there's clear signage I mean there's
clear signage for things like no smoking
and there's or no parking where do you
put a sign no ash put aside when you're
entering the area okay right put a spot
put it somewhere kilometer out saying
you're about to enter so that when
you're driving into the spot where
you're going to start launching your
drone you know okay right you're you're
again thinking of the military base
where as you're approaching it it's like
watch out for landmines don't hike in
these woods
but think about a drone that can fly six
kilometres out all right how am I gonna
see those signs if I don't know so have
maybe an app can augment a'dreea
would have to be a part of the drones I
just feel it's unfair to have it can be
so because that that brings me to the I
said that there were two scenarios that
I was thinking of in the second scenario
being our very own Henry Bailey Brown
right who flies commercially as a
professional drone pilot and so when he
flies he's filming videos for his
clients so I know that he would stay
away from no-fly zones yes
but in this particular scenario I mean
you fly over some military personnel's
backyard when they're having a barbeque
they have every right to shoot you down
and these drones can fly miles from
where the where the controller is it's
tricky it is well I mean you think about
even I'm just like as you're saying that
I'm thinking even like say that there's
a scenario in a city like there's a
standoff of some sort right and a news
company goes and flies their drones over
and there's police say on the ground do
they not have the right to just shoot
that drone down if they don't want they
do if they have and once this is signed
yes considering they have to be able to
say yeah we thought it was a credible
threat a threat to whom at that point
well anyone right today
they say the buildings or whatever you
know the buildings being the people
within the building it's a little dodgy
I wish I def were here yeah he'd have
his opinions to share a great service
they feel like it's a little tricky yeah
and I think it's one of those it falls
back on how do you teach people to be
wise with their decision making like the
person who mounted a gun on a drone
right was not thinking about the
repercussions
they were just thinking hey here this is
cool I live in America I got a rifle I
can connect it to my drone and write and
and used it for target practice not for
anything more they probably put it on
YouTube but they did and they got sparks
ideas for the malicious individual right
one step further you probably 3d printed
that gun a massage yeah the thing is you
can't you can't just sweepingly throw a
law on all drone users when most drone
users are good law-abiding citizens that
perhaps are in the air besides something
that they didn't even write like yeah
what are your thoughts I mean are you a
drone pilot who is going to be affected
by this new law once it comes into
effect we'd love to hear from you
comment on our website
or below if you're watching on YouTube
that would be wonderful definitely
follow up on that Google+ is shutting
down after it was revealed that Google
Google covered a new company Google
covered up a data exposing bug a
security bug allowed third-party
developers to access Google+ user
profile data since 2015 until Google
discovered and patched it in March but
decided not to inform the world when a
user gave permission to an app for a
foreign app to access their public
profile data the bug also let those
developers pull theirs and their friends
non-public profile fields indeed 496
thousand 951 users full names email
addresses birth dates gender profile
photos places lived occupation and
relationship status were potentially
exposed though Google says it has no
evidence that the data was misused by
the 438 apps that could have had access
according to an internal memo the
company decided against informing the
public because it would lead to us
coming into the spotlight alongside or
even instead of Facebook despite having
stayed under the radar throughout the
Cambridge analytic a scandal now Google+
which was already a ghost town largely
abandoned or never inhabited by users
has become a massive liability for the
company the news comes from a damning
Wall Street Journal report Google+ will
cease all its consumer services while
winding down over the next 10 months
with an opportunity for users to export
their data while Google refocuses on
making G+ an enterprise product Google
also will change its account permission
system for giving third-party apps
access to your data such that you have
to confirm each type of access
individually rather than all at once
Gmail add-ons will be limited to those
directly enhancing email functionality
including email clients backup CRM mail
merge and productivity tools since the
bug and subsequent security holes
started in 2015 and was discovered in
March before Europe's gdpr went into
effect in May Google will likely be
spared a 2% of
Global annual revenue fine for failing
to disclose the issue within 72 hours
the company could still face a
class-action lawsuit and public backlash
I'll say I love that their defense was
well we covered it up because you know
we didn't want to like take the
spotlight away oh yeah we want to take
it away from what Facebook was doing was
wrong and iris lesser wrong oh my
goodness I have a question okay so Wow
you're one of the three people three
people the only reason I actually know
still but I have Google+ or had Google+
is because I tried to delete a birthday
that is like some day I went to school
with like 5,000 years ago and I'm like
why is their birthday still showing up
on every calendar I don't know my mom's
birthday without checking yeah so that's
why I've alerted so I clicked on it and
I was like your friends on Google+ like
she was on my Google+ sir oh I didn't
think I had Google+ as I don't have it
on my current phone because I am cool
like that and thought it's not on my
phone I probably don't have it but we
don't installed it on my phone turns out
I've had it this whole time now what
sounds like you didn't really use it no
so the shutdown is not going to affect
you okay
I mean you're gonna lose access to the
thing that you just installed it you
just are like whoa look at that I have
this yeah big deal to you right yeah but
what happens to the user that has been
using Google Plus from we joke I mean
you know Google Plus had some people had
some had some failure and was it it has
been winding down for more than just now
as far as Google is concerned right but
for those of you who have been using
Google Plus or maybe at a time posted a
lot of great information on Google+ what
is gonna happen to all your data right
like maybe you posted blog entries or
things that are really special to your
whatever pictures and things like that
address yeah well everyone has access to
that now well let's take a quick look at
how we can in fact
recover okay our file so before Google+
shuts down wouldn't you love to be able
to back up your stuff yeah can we take
the time to do that I know I'm
encroaching into your show now yeah but
let's take a look so let's jump back
over to category 5 TV here and jump onto
my laptop and if I go to my account
google.com so you're not gonna find this
feature in Google Plus you need to
actually go to my account google.com and
then if you click on control your
content you'll see right on the first
screen create archive and when we click
on that we can choose which archives we
want to create so just scroll down
scroll down scroll down there's a lot of
stuff that Google has on me all right
where are you plus plus plus google plus
plus I don't know where they couple it
but this is where you're gonna grab all
your information from yeah so I imagine
that it's G sweet know Google help
Google my business Google Play Music
Google Play Store they've got everything
else but I had to download it special
did yeah yeah I thought I would find it
right in here and I hadn't looked before
as you can tell posts on Google that
sounds promising
but check check through the list and see
if you can find it maybe you're gonna
find it a little better than I how's
that that's good thank you
well so I'm not really concerned I did
post on Google+ there for a while I had
like four people and I think one circle
yeah like I feel like we tried to launch
category 5 on Google+ when I first came
out yeah it just wasn't a big turnout I
think you might be one of my four people
actually I think so there's like you and
my brother and like alright well let
them know yeah I'm gonna have to find me
on discord now
default passwords such as admin and
firms to use in California from 2020 the
state has passed a law that sets higher
security standards for net connected
devices made or sold in the region it
demands that each gadget be given a
unique password when it is made before
now easy to guess passwords have helped
some cyberattacks spread more quickly
and caused more harm the information
privacy connected devices bill demands
that electronics manufacturers equipped
their products with reasonable security
features this can mean a unique password
or a start up procedure that forces
users to generate their own code when
using the gadget for the first time the
bill also allows customers who suffer
harm when a company ignores the law to
sue for damages many recent cyber
attacks have taken advantage of the
default and easy to guess passwords on
the devices found in millions of homes
and offices in late 2016
Twitter Spotify and reddit where among
sites taken offline by an attack that
took advantage of poor passwords on lots
of net connected gadgets including
webcams and other so-called smart home
hardware an attack by malware known as
VPN filter is currently targeting home
routers and is believed to have infected
more than 500,000 devices yikes yeah
yeah super yikes except that I feel like
criminals will get smarter like okay so
there's a small group of people who use
admin or password or password one two
three like there's got to be just a
small group right or like one one one
one I see what you're thinking Yeah
right but most people change their
passwords I would think all right so
you're you're taking it you're thinking
along the perspective of the consumer
yes who when I sign up for Twitter I'm
using a good strong password because I
know I don't want my account to be
compromised
right now the ISP the local Internet
service provider yes calls me up and
says we've got a promotion going on
we're gonna increase the speed of your
internet
we're gonna install a new modem for you
it's gonna make your internet five times
faster would you like it yes yes I would
and then when the person shows up and
installs it for you yeah they just do
that they just do it yeah
do you at any point say okay how do I
change my password no I don't write okay
that modem that modem is your this is a
very good example because this is like
VPN filter wax away at these things
right so I as a user would never use
something stupid like password as my
password but an astronomical amount of
these devices are created with the
username admin and the password password
right
think about your router or your modem
and you get online and you say and you
type in the the type of device that you
have
I gotta type wrt54g so that's a Linksys
router okay and I'm just gonna jump over
to this to show you so I'm gonna do a
quick search for wrt54g default password
I'm just using that as an example for
all versions of the Linksys wrt54g
router the default password is admin
mm-hmm okay so if I have that device my
password out of the box is admin admin
so if I have now installed that device
and this is an older device and I'm just
using it as an example because it's the
quick one that came to mind but your ISP
comes in with the new modem and and has
a stupid default password on there and
if anyone does a search for the device
you model number they'll find the
default password on google try it with
your devices
what's the default password and so we
connect that Internet connect connection
and never think about the fact that it
has a built-in interface that allows the
internet service provider to login to
the router but it also allows anyone on
the internet to also login to that
router if they know the password but
it's a default dumb password like admin
or password exactly I get it because I
but yeah I changed my passwords for
things that ice for things yeah things
that you know and see and see but a
remote on your router your Wi-Fi you get
a modem that has built-in Wi-Fi and they
tell you what the password is for your
Wi-Fi that's true that has recently
happened Wow okay alright so keep that
in mind right now California companies
can be sued if they don't follow the law
that's where it differs from your
original thought process of the consumer
choosing and men as a password so this
is now saying okay if they're gonna
manufacture a hundred thousand new
modems that the ISPs are gonna come and
install every single one of those
devices has to have its own unique
password now it's still you know it's
still knowledge of the person who
installed it it's on the sticker or
whatever anyone who sees the sticker on
the back of the modem can get it a great
way to get access to Wi-Fi it places
where you don't have access to Wi-Fi is
to find their modem and look at the
sticker on the back because it's
probably the default password right but
the at least they're gonna say it can't
be the it can't be the same on a hundred
thousand exactly it has to be unique
that's where this difference actually
because California is a pretty big
producer of trend it's just the start
it's just one state so let's set an
example ripple effect yeah it's good but
is this also a little bit of a wake up
call for us to say hey ok my modem that
my internet service provider installed
my router I I think I know the password
but have I personally set that password
to something strong is my Wi-Fi a
password that I have personally set
right is there a second Wi-Fi in my
router because sometimes the rivers that
they install will have something as a
Wi-Fi SSID and then something - 5g right
right so you can use the 5g as well well
that one has a default password as well
so have you set those up maybe it's time
to just think that through just do a
little self audit do a little self audit
on your stuff at home you
or at work and because what if somebody
gets in through that basic password
which they can just do a search on the
internet for any ddw any wrt54g router
blind one hack it now they have access
to your entire network they can access
your files in your network they can
access your printers they can access
they can install ransomware which will
encrypt your files they can access
remote desktop and be able to bring up
your computer screen install crypto
miners they can turn on your webcam and
spy on you on the laptop that's sitting
on your bed stand like these kinds of
things are real and they actually happen
and it starts with those passwords being
left as default on the entry points to
your home Wow
thank you you're welcome Hyperloop
transportation Technologies Inc and
veiled its first full-scale passenger
capsule offering the world a peek at the
future of travel the capsule 105 feet or
32 meters long and weighing five tons
was shown in Spain and will be moved
toulouse france for an additional
assembly before it's used on on one of
the first commercial tracks the
california-based start-up known as
Hyperloop TT said in a statement a
statement names the Quintero one the the
product is made almost entirely out of
composite material Hyperloop is a
technology that gained popularity after
Elon Musk touted it in 2013 prompting
several companies to join the race to
build a high-speed transportation system
it in vision envisions moving passengers
in capsules at speeds of more than 750
miles or 1,200 kilometers per hour
through low pressure tubes in order to
reduce friction the technology will be
able to propel trains faster than
existing methods such as the Magli which
uses a levitation technology to lift the
train cars above a track to eliminate
surface drag the Los Angeles area is
emerging as a Hyperloop center
home to competitors arrival and virgin
Hyperloop one Musk's boring company also
has a base there musk who also runs
Tesla Inc and spice Exploration
Technologies Corporation first unveiled
his idea for a Hyperloop a tube based
system to move people from Los Angeles
to San Francisco in half an hour in a 57
page white paper in 2013 because he was
disappointed with California's plans for
a high-speed rail system in July
Hyperloop TT set up a joint venture to
build a test system in a mountainous
Southwest Province in China billionaire
Richard Branson's Virgin Hyperloop one
held discussions in India aiming to
offer passengers in the futuristic
technology fares that are cheaper than
local Airlines in February Branson signs
a preliminary agreement in Mumbai for a
broad Hyperloop framework and mu mooted
a Mumbai Pune system that would shrink
travel time to 25 minutes and save about
three hours it's actually happening
Hyperloop for passengers is an awesome
idea in my mind I thought Hyperloop was
going to be like cargo only I don't know
why I like but I really want Hyperloop
in Canada because Canada is vast at
those kinds of speeds do you need a
deflector dish that's what I want to
know like how strong with the g-force
truly be at 1200 kilometers an hour
that's brutal
nuts they have to have something to
counteract yeah that's just like brace
yourselves folks yeah brace yourselves
you're gonna be like in that do you
remember the fair rides where you stick
to the walls yeah the UFO and stuff like
that yeah where it spins around and you
can like get yourself kind of in a weird
position and you stick forever on that
whoa yes yeah that's right I like I just
I think to myself like it takes it's a
five-hour flight to the west coast from
here let alone getting through customs
get through the airport everything else
yeah I love the idea of Hyperloop I feel
like Elon Musk now has some free time on
his hands so it may be he'll just be
spending some more time doing Hydra
loops that I am so lost on the logistics
of how this could even be possible here
in Canada like how would it be possible
with the great Canadian Shield and
everything else like you're boring
through Rock and I think of the original
Total Recall and how on Mars they're
digging through with these boring
machines and it's like that's all I can
picture don't don't think it will can't
happen
we did a railroad in Canada somebody
laid actual train tracks at some point
across all of Canada before there were
there was any other mode of
transportation right we can do a
Hyperloop especially now that we have
the technologies we technologies they're
these billionaire folks backing it
it's a skywriter 64 se and that's the
speed of sound is that for real legit
like it does make me think of the car
Concorde aircraft and the way that you
know people are like flying in this
thing and it's like this past the speed
of sound yeah an amazing it's experience
my mind is melting a little bit because
I never thought Hyperloop would ever be
Mach one people I never thought I
thought like it's like put your parcels
in here order something from Amazon
we'll throw it in the Hyperloop like I
just pictured it would be there you go
and it sounds like something Amazon
would would do for you but now it's
people would you ride in a Hyperloop not
I mean the chatroom is going crazy yeah
not the first time I wouldn't be the
first volunteer but maybe after it's
been running for five years but can you
imagine like North America is huge could
you imagine getting from here to Florida
how could that even be possible though
like we need to focus on transporter
technology at this point because I just
can't see how could they build the
infrastructure for that with all the
buildings and stuff and how do you bore
under Los Angeles I just don't
understand how that's even policy could
you just
I don't can you lay it in the ocean I
feel like that's easier might be easier
to lay a tube in the ocean and draw the
water out somehow I feel like that my
limited knowledge about Hyperloop can
you get inside a Hyperloop above the
ground does it have to be in the bore in
the in the boring in the boring earth in
the border I I don't there are many
questions I love it a lot yeah I want to
see where it goes yeah even if they're
short journeys even if they're shorter
journeys just to get you from A to B
through a busy commute exactly if we had
a Hyperloop Jeff could be here right now
exactly from Hamilton to Barry in three
seconds before one miss Ong big thanks
to Roy W Nash Garvey and our community
of viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a suite Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sacha Rickman and I'm
Robbie Ferguson thanks for joining us
this week
[Music]
[Applause]
