welcome to episode number 297 of
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
the 28th of May 28 though it may
thirteen hey gang are you doing I'm
Robbie Ferguson your host and I'm Eric
Kidd and you know what I'm gonna tell
you what's coming up in the newsroom
right now right now next thing you know
your fantasy football team will be
coming to Linux whoo and biting their
thumb at all those who said QR codes are
dead mercedes-benz has found a way to
use QR codes to save lives do you know
your facebook friends do you know who
they are because they might be a
criminal gang out to kidnap you
seriously an 18 year old student yes has
built a device that charges a dead cell
phone in only 20 seconds you should
stick around these stories are coming up
later in the show boy oh boy that'd be
spectacular which part 1 and then
kidnapped or the or the phone that was
charged my second in 20 seconds yeah my
hi I'll call you back in 20 seconds the
phone's dying yeah okay I'm back oh if
only I could charge me up that quickly
when that'd be awesome hey on tonight's
show we're gonna be having some fun
we're gonna be taking the old are you no
fun at all sorry I didn't realize that
there was a rule no fun tonight the new
a new that's also known as the
wildebeest to new the GNU image
manipulation program the GIMP is a free
graphic editing software al a kind of
like Photoshop or something like that
but we are going to show you tonight how
to add digital depth of field to your
photos to make them kind of pop out of
the screen pop out of your prints you're
gonna love it let's stick around don't
go anywhere we'll be right back this is
category 5 technology TV
at eco alkalines we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance the rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference Eco alkalines calm
this is category 5 technology TV want to
say greets to everybody who's joining us
in the chat room tonight I see Brazil JP
jot our Keolis uh you out what hey Jim
Hagg emoto nice to see ya hey Jameson's
are a yes nice to see ya and Dennis
Kelly as well awesome hey if color goes
on romper room you know she'd look into
that magic tennis racket I see Andrew
Jamison I see a gamoto and Dennis Kelly
yes I also see let me swing cuz this is
modern romper room right you gotta swipe
so we can swipe swipe oh I also see you
al cool dude nice to see you Oh pirate
rock and damn may do and good to see
y'all okay why this party's getting
rough oh I know but while I've got my
mobile device in my hand get yours out
scan this mystical code there it is ibis
82 m dot cat5 TV which has got live
video streaming allah youtube if you
want to watch category 5 technology TV
live on your mobile device but if you're
driving can't possibly do that oh you
can possibly but it's not recommended
it's illegal it's dangerous yeah not
rented by we could ruse a viewer if we
recommend
don't want that to happen folks so use
the listen live feature which is also a
feature of the mobile app m cabinet
they're just listening they won't get to
make fun of the bright color of my shirt
and the shininess of its Lori and
describe the right color of his shirt
and whatever those of you who are
listening on radio category 5e on TV
will say his shirt is so vibrant it is
like the son I am weary glad I'm wearing
safety green and here let me stand up oh
oh we have look at the Astor Spock yes
how's that we've converted me a
converted him he is indeed an erdling I
am a new nerdling okay yeah I'm so proud
of you man well and this is why we allow
the bright green on the show yeah those
of you who are listening he's wearing a
Spock shirt and it is 60 green really
bright I'm squinting looking over you
yeah you figured this you know and I
even figured out the thumb is not in it
the phone yeah he's been like no man
like this no no ask Leonard Nimoy the
guy who invented it practically and he's
the guy who's it okay this is what we're
gonna do is Balkans so yeah live long
and prosper folks peace hey did you know
the category 5 TV remember the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
and the International Association of
Internet broadcasters Dave may do it is
very yellow this shirt I thought it was
safety green is it safe to yellow it's
like okay it is so bright it's like mean
it's like the the highlighter on the end
of a highlighter like before you write
on the paper desaturate sit a little bit
but when you like look at this good
iridescent to it absolutely yeah it's
grad to dim the lights folks the studio
lights are actually off all the lighting
that you see is from this shirt actually
we should have like a radioactive one
actually maybe it is radioactive it's
actually a white shirt it's just been
Dennis yeah yes ok enough of my wardrobe
malfunctions here
big news for category 5 viewers fans of
Abigail Smith I don't know if we're
keeping the Smith or what's happening
but Abigail got married on Saturday
we're very very happy if you saying
she's off the murders oh he's off the
market sorry guys it sorry fellas all
right guys yeah I was I had the honor
and pleasure of being there we had the
photo booth set up and it was it was
really really cool we built this photo
booth back on episode number 28 okay he
says really cool but I can see some of
the pictures yes yes it worked though it
was fantastic and it was a hit yes
actually I'll tell you so there's
there's the Ferguson clan you know lots
and lots of fun the bridal party all
kind of crammed into the the photo booth
and then like a clown car more people
decided to join and I don't know how
they fit that many people into a little
five by ten booth but there you have it
it actually worked and of course the
wedding party and Abigail Smith but one
of the things that was really really
neat to realize with the photo booth is
that it was so dead simple to use that
even a baby can do it oh my before jury
during well got it about here got the
picture with that USB button from USB
button calm that is nice pretty cool
that is nice yes you photo booth was
such a hit that I've already started
receiving requests for people to rent it
that we're at the event the world a
wedding reception which is pretty cool
we never really thought about that we
joked about it on the show that you know
now that we've invested in the hardware
and the ability to do it yeah I just
rented it well it's kind of cool church
a thousand bucks number next ten years
ago yeah maybe a little longer golden
but every table had those little cameras
were you yes female the camera back and
they'd thank you your pictures yeah or
or is what we i I don't I think it was
my wedding I'm pretty sure was that we
did you remember your anniversary date
I'm just trying to get them in trouble
here no I I do and do it but I'm trying
I'm pretty sure it was our wedding but
it may have been a like another family
members wedding but I do recall the
disposable
yes on the table i think it was us it
was cool I you got a lot yes picture
totally us yeah so then everybody took
pictures around the table so you got all
these candid shots no it was my
brother's wedding because they were in
kilts and I remember some particular
photos although that will not ever leave
the family way to go bro so
congratulations to Abigail Smith and her
new husband Kyle page as well so if you
would like Abigail has given you the
viewers of category 5 technology TV and
exclusive behind-the-scenes view of the
ceremony itself go on to her bile a
category 5 TV you can actually watch the
wedding ceremony if you care to and make
sure you send your greetings if you'd
like to send in a card or whatever our
address our mailing address is at the
bottom of the website category 5e vegan
just send a greeting card or congratula
tory note or whatever you like to do or
simply an email at abbey at category or
Abigail pardon me at category 5 10 you
do what I typically do is I forget about
it for so long it just seems
inappropriate to sender yeah a message
and I'm horrible I'm a horrible person
uh oh yeah your granite day was three
weeks ago happy birthday hey you know
what I user episode 297 right yes it is
I was here for 295 to yes cuz he's
having trouble with co-hosts these days
am i well you know I know they are
difficult it you know are dealing with
let's see Hilary got married last year
was that true yeah no Abby have a Gil
yeah I think somebody'll Krista just got
away into slams on the last episode of
carry five yeah here we go okay all
right we want to welcome our new viewers
tonight who have registered on our
website category five dot TV who have we
got we have naked cook and I can tell
you from experience that is a dangerous
thing to do when you're frying bacon
definitely is it make a cook or naked
kook I think it's a book I think that
would do kook with a cake all right but
well just one anyway all slicked oz
tough well there's a couple of eyes in
the middle and geeks or seeks will say
yes on clothes Marie awesome all right
zip I'm going with as if as if is easy
thanks Holly going zip nice to see ya
sparks all right and I'll go cypher
excellent or is a happy fun i'll go
super good planning on the you know the
third last syllable rule you know that's
why you get you know folks like radio
netherlands at two in the morning you
know you hear words like controversy
because the rules suggest isn't that
right job okay well i don't want to
start any controversy here so let's move
on indeed all right well tonight we are
going to show you how to use the gimp to
crow is our feature feature yeah right
we talked all about the gimp we're going
to show you some tricks and we're gonna
show you a way to add depth of field
your photo in what 15 minutes no in like
15 seconds ah so have to pay attention
the GIMP is a free piece of software you
can get it at gimp.org i'm gonna bring
up their website just to show you around
just really really quickly here alright
gimp.org there you go we've got
downloads over on the right-hand side
find it all about it and this is for
linux this particular version they've
got all different versions of linux that
are accessible you've got a boon to
debian open suse whatever and then if
you want to run this on windows there is
a windows version all you have to do is
go to gimp dash win dot sourceforge.net
don't whatever type the I know origin it
quick they used to have the windows in
the mac version also available in their
downloads page I don't know why they've
changed that I know its third parties
that create these installers but there
it is for windows gimp dash win dot
sourceforge.net and you'll be able to
get the installer for gimp for windows
you can download that version now that
is for any version of windows that you
okay so so you can get chinese
simplified croatian danish that's the
help files but can we get the help for
in comes with English know is that 11 no
that's not what are you talking about it
you can just give me a hard time I'm
just giving your heart so i'll give you
a hard time back yeah okay yeah all
about the GIMP and okay I'm not going to
comment about what you're acting like
I'm happening hey check out my cup is
even start I know you are like the bomb
tonight like geek guy awesome there's a
language missing there I'm helpful
you're gonna make me say during Klingon
yes it's gotta be you gotta translate it
if you want to donate your time okay
well I mean that we were talking to you
yeah yeah the translator last time yeah
well that was one usually been 95 all
right bingo fix it you can but he
digresses yeah mwah yeah all right I'm
gonna bring out GNU image manipulation
program on my computer i run linux so
I've just simply installed it using the
synaptic package manager you can install
it with apt-get or whatever package
manager program that you're using so
here we go GNU image manipulation
program 2.8 is the version that I'm
currently running and there we go I'm
running in multi window mode which I
prefer especially because most of the
time when I'm working in a Productivity
environment I have multiple monitors so
I love to have my work on one screen and
my tools on another screen because it
just freeze up the space and it gives me
a clear working space basically so I
like that there is a single like a
single windowed mode as well that's a
little bit more comfortable for I
suppose that I've seen your
windows-based sometimes asteroids on the
other woman yeah yeah but that may be
more comfortable for you if you want to
put it in single window mode if you're
like a Photoshop user just to get you
kind of into using the game that can be
done by simply clicking on Windows and
then single window mode that will switch
things around so I've got some pictures
Eric you mentioned that you were on the
show back on 295 right so let's grab a
picture from that
we'll open it up in the gng so is
wearing a little different colored green
that yeah there you go these photos of
course are available in the in the show
notes for episode number 2 95 through
our new gallery system and what we want
to do is we want to you know typical
camera what it does is it makes
everything generally in focus so if
you're looking at a grand vista with a
couple of people in the foreground
doesn't matter it's all going to be in
focus and so you don't get that kind of
sense of depth of field so we're going
to actually create that in our studio
here what happens is that you know the
back wall is so close to us that it
doesn't create a depth of field so we
don't get that so the first thing I want
to do in the camp is do something that's
kind of unique we're going to create a
very very simple vignette and the
vignette is just a way to bring our
characters are our focal subjects of the
photograph forward so that it looks like
they are really the focus of the
photograph it really draws your eye to
the person or the the subject Viet a
bird or a flower whatever it is a
vignette will really help to draw the
eye to one particular thing so in this
case we have two subjects it's Eric and
I so I'm going to use a round you know
elliptical marquee here and simply
create a circle that's roughly a little
bit bigger than my head that's a big one
oh yeah well then the same thing for
Eric that's a bigger one and I can go
like that i can actually with the gimp
see i can create to marquis by doing
what I'm first when I click I just drag
and drop let go and I can move that
around and I can here's one of the nice
things about the gimp i can actually
resize my marquee can't do that with
photoshop and then to create a second
one I can holding my left shift key and
then click and drag and create the
second one and now I can in fact move
just the second one without affecting
over and the first one so now I can make
that so that it works a little bit
better with Erics noggin okay so now I
want to do something that is going to
make it so that things are not stark
because now if I were to fill in a
vignette it would have a very definitive
line where that mark
ends so we're going to create what is
called a feather on that selection so
I'm going to go right click and go
select feather and we're going to
observe the dimensions of our image this
image is you know 20 200 pixels wide by
1300 pixels high so this particular our
first feather we're going to make this
rather huge and again this is something
you can't do with Photoshop we're going
to make it 1,000 pixels which sounds
crazy but this gives us something really
really neat watch what happens here so
now I'm going to now that I've done that
we're going to right-click and I'm going
to go select invert and then create a
new layer transparent and fill that with
black and you'll see that what I've
effectively done is simply darkened out
the entire photo but you can see even on
your screen there that my face and
Eric's face are just ever so slightly
brighter more more prominent in the
photograph so everything else is
darkened right up can't really see the
photo but we can see that our faces are
there so now that we've created that
really massive 1000 pixel vignette so
this is a almost a gradient of blackness
into lightness so so much so that it is
absolutely fluid there's no edges to it
or anything like that so now that we've
done that we're going to again circle my
head circle Eric's head and it can be
rough it doesn't have to be close at all
like just you know roughly our heads and
I'm going to right-click and now i'm
going to change the feather i'm going to
create a new feather and we're going to
make this one quite a bit smaller we're
going to make this 250 pixels and i'm
just going to cut and you'll see what
that is done is it's really brought out
our heads so now that we've got that
form of a vignette we can play around
with the opacity of this layer advice
you know you notice that i actually have
that layer selected and to show you what
that layer in fact looks like it's
literally that so i'm going to drag the
opacity of that layer so that we can
change how much the background is
affected by that there we are
and we can change even the mode to just
simply dark him there we are and we can
just continue to bring that down bring
it up however we want but you notice our
faces never change its only the
surrounding areas to create that really
nice vignette to draw your eye more
toward the the subjects of the photo so
now to create that kind of
three-dimensional effect that we're
going for i'm going to temporarily
disable that layer and i can just make
my canvas just a little bit bigger here
so that i can get it onto the outside
edges and i'm going to use the this
marquee up here that's a lasso and that
allows me to drag my mouse and so with
the gimp what i can do is i can click in
a single spot and then it gives me this
line and once I've clicked there now I
can click click click and I can go like
that or I can hold in and I can actually
just trace around notice that i do not
have to be anywhere close yeah you want
to be kind of you know close to the ship
clip middle is there buddy well sorry
we'll fix it okay so I don't need to be
precise in any way because remember
we're doing what I'm showing you tonight
is the world's easiest fastest way to do
this and I'm also going to grab the the
edge of the eco alkaline sign there to
complete our effect so now I've got that
Marky and if I right click and select
and now feather and again we want this
feather to be a little bit smaller than
the last one we're going to make this
100 pixels keeping in mind that this is
all relative to the fact that our photo
is 2200 pixels by 1300 pixels so if
you've got a photo that is 640 by 480
obviously a thousand pixel feather is
going to be ridiculous because that is
actually better than your photograph so
relatively speaking the first feather
that we did was approximately a half of
the pixel width of the the document the
image the second one that we did was
roughly a quarter no an eighth of that
and now we're doing it just you know a
very very subtle kind of feathering here
so with that feather of 100 pixels which
I've done okay so now i'm going to right
click and go select invert and i'm going
to copy and paste ctrl c ctrl v and then
i'm going to right click and go layer 2
new layer just so that i can show you
what i've actually
done now I've actually copied the wrong
thing see what's happened there so with
GIMP I can control Z control Z control Z
but here in canada we say it'd sure make
sure that I copy the right thing invert
that again copy paste layer to new layer
turn that off and you see that the
people are gone the man around stays
okay the operation so that now has
created this extra layer here all right
and now what I want to do is I want to
actually blur that layer but before I do
that here's the trick I want to make
sure that it doesn't blur over top of
our faces over top and I remember that I
made that mark ii and then I feathered
that Marky so it has a nice soft edge so
what I actually want to do is I want to
tell it that I don't want it to go
outside of the transparency so I want to
lock the alpha channel on this
particular layer lock alpha channel okay
so I've just clicked that button up
there so now if I right click and
whatever I do to this layer let's say I
fill the whole thing in with black watch
what happens it just fills that layer so
it gives you a perspective as to what is
actually happening there so now I'm
going to right-click and I'm going to go
filters blur Gaussian blur and this
gives us a nice little close-up preview
and you can drag around and just change
that to a reasonable amount of blur to
give you that depth of field that you're
looking for what's driven so it goes and
burn some of the others that you might
use well each one is is using different
kind of filtering techniques right so a
Gaussian blur you imagine that is like a
like a beer goggle kind of everything is
diffused okay but it's it's even across
the whole image something like a motion
blur for example you as the name would
entail is something that would have a
bit of a stretch to it where a Gaussian
blur is literally just a blur on the
image almost as if your camera were out
of focus so that's what i'm doing here
is i'm actually creating that out of
focus effect on that background because
that's exactly what you would do with
changing your f-stop on a high-end
cameras blur the background to give you
that depth of field look we're having to
do it digitally after the fact
okay so by having change the horizontal
and vertical blur radius I've set mine
to 10 you can see the difference there
that's what it looks like normally and
when I let go that's the preview so now
if I hit OK you'll actually see that
things have in fact changed and there is
a bit of a soft blur on the brick so now
reorder my layers make sure that the
dark vignette is on the very very top of
the image and now I turn on that layer
and I end up with that now that's a bit
too dark for my photo so I'm going to
actually bring down the opacity and
again this just brings out our our faces
a little bit and that gives us a real
kind of perspective that where the
subjects of the photo the background is
is slightly blurred and the vignette
creates this effect that gives us that
kind of pops us right out of the photo
very nice literally as simple as that so
how quickly can we make this effect well
let's start over we're going to bring up
that photo so I'm going to just
demonstrate for you how quickly this can
be done let's go back your own show to
money from 0 to 95 photos okay so with
that photo open here's what we're gonna
do we're gonna highlight my head
highlight Eric's head start again there
we go I like my head there we go okay
feather
we're doing like half of the proper yeah
thousand I'm going on down two thousand
yeah half of the pixels of my the width
of my image or so doesn't really make a
difference okay and then select invert
remember I've already shown you how to
do this but I'm just showing you how
quickly you can in fact create this very
same effect so we're taking a photo and
actually enhancing it quite a bit making
a look pretty nice feather this time
we're going to 250 pixels or so in my
particular image there we go get er down
around 40 before than you yeah well
whatever going to use you you get the
feel just by looking at the photo and
get in that sense of how you want it to
look alright sorry your time and me
we've been about what 30 seconds so far
careful with that nose yeah careful
up and around down click and Collect and
then shift to select my second mark ii
left shift key there we go select
feather 100 pixels invert that selection
so that i can copy the background paste
it and create a new layer from that
pasted layer and I've done it again did
the OP convert wrong thing yeah oh
that's right I didn't need to invert no
that's right which one if I got right
now edit there okay that's what I
actually want there we are okay perfect
let's make that alpha channel locked
we're gonna blur it gaussian blur I'm
gonna make it a little bit heavier this
time than our first example is then yeah
just so that it's a little more apparent
to you at home watching this if you're
watching it on a smaller screen there we
go we're going to pop right out of that
picture so now we've actually created
this effect look at Eric how he just
kind of pops out of that picture and
I've been really really sloppy with it
just for the sake of the demonstration
you can get in a little bit tighter you
see how you know part of Spock is still
in focus but you can get in tighter and
actually fix that up but for the sake of
the demonstration you can really see how
that very subtle blur and that vignette
has kind of popped Eric out of that
photo let's look again at that with you
know let's just use air because the
example because I think he's the better
example between the two of us on that
particular sample so there he is let's
turn off all the effects that's how flat
the photo did look see how everything is
in touch won't i handsome looking for he
is you know there is turn back on our
effect there we go nice and simple and
all done using free tools the GNU image
manipulation program you can download it
a gimp.org check it out you can download
it today right there gimp.org for linux
and again i'm going to put the link in
the show notes maybe we can post it in
the chat
chat room as well GIMP dash win dot
sourceforge.net that's where you'll get
it for microsoft windows there is a mac
version available as well unfortunately
i don't have the link to that but i'm
sure you can find that fairly quickly
they are a resourceful bunch of yeah and
it's open source it's free and it's
available to you right now so all right
why don't we go to news sounds good all
right well football manager is a
football management simulation game
where players by cell built and train
the ultimate football team and play them
against others in various tournaments
and come with a ma tante op the game is
made by Sports Interactive and published
by Sega and is a continuation of the
championship manager series started in
1989 by the same developers the game
developers have announced that the next
incarnation of the popular simulation
will support linux nice thanks to steam
the game will be available to buy on one
platform but install and play on all you
won't need to buy it again to play on
your Mac or Windows machines the Linux
release will also support connecting
with and playing against Mac and PC
users football manager 2014 is expected
to release sometime around October very
cool now I won't pretend that I'm a
sports guy you know you would have
probably even pretending oh sorry but
now i cant pretend that because i can
get you know that awesome application so
but what what I think this does with
football manager is it it shows again
windows users Mac users that all of a
sudden linux is a viable platform for
their favorite games because this is a
popular game I mean fantasy football and
being able to track your teams and play
against other people that's a pretty
popular thing and so now to have it on
linux and being cross compatible with
mac and windows and then all of a sudden
people start to realize hey this is this
is viable well because i think gaming is
a big thing that holds people back from
trying out linux and steam is going to
make a difference is already making a
difference
I think people are already starting to
see that and and here's another one nice
to see the sort of developing for the
linux platform i don't i'm assuming
we're talking soccer I don't know not
not American folk is it is it yeah they
kind of look like soccer tonight I think
it would be like British football yes as
opposed to well I mean the rest of the
world football as opposed to what's with
that a speaking of Miss for NATO I mean
they actually hitting up the ball with
their foot in real football that makes
sense see as opposed to this pointy
thing that you have to cat looks like a
rugby ball is a little pointy gives what
camps well I'll tell you the QR code is
not dead and in fact may help save lives
nice Mercedes Benz is adding QR codes to
help emergency workers save car crash
victims black and white square bar codes
are designed to help firefighters in the
paramedic critical information needed to
save car crash victims the QR codes
direct smartphones to a web page showing
how to cut into each type of vehicle to
free its passengers the firm said it had
waived the right to patent the in the
innovation so that others could use it
free of charge until now Daimler said if
a vehicle was damaged beyond recognition
emergency workers might have to call in
its registration plate to obtain the
necessary details that could take extra
time certainly good precious time a
press release said it informs about the
location of the airbags the battery the
tanks electric cables high pressure
cylinders and other components in the
case of hybrid models the location of
the additional batteries and
high-voltage cables too that's a neat
idea that is an excellent idea I was
looking at the photo and wondering how
exactly this works that's actually the
the gas door like that where you refill
the diesel ok so it's easily excessive
in there yeah which is kind of clever
I've always liked QR codes and we have
one here at the show to take out of our
mobile site I think that it's a great
solution and this free right so might as
well utilize it but cool to see that
they're using it for
like that well so I bring up the car
specs that'd be cool for like auto
mechanics will not be neat yeah they
said of having today you know you could
have the shop manual on your on your
computer or on your handheld device and
like a how do you change the flying old
anger on the narrow if all that was
listening if all that is listening you
know here's an opportunity for you to
tap into QR codes what do you say
greater yeah that would be neat a 13
year old boy who was kidnapped in the
Pakistani city of Karachi after being
lured into a meeting via Facebook has
been rescued he is reportedly the son of
a senior customs official in the city
police say that the criminal gang
masquerade is an online gaming friend
and abducted him after arranging to meet
him last week the gang demanded $500,000
ransom the boy's mother made an
emotional plea to other parents to
supervise their children's use of social
media saying this is my request to all
the parents to never let their children
make friendship on facebook you know
that's wise words like I mean making a
friend on Facebook very very dangerous
because you don't or any social media
platform you just don't know is I mean I
know people who have met folks on
Facebook they've gone on and getting
married lived happily ever after high
however my wife on icq yeah free msn
days but there's a lot of scary stuff
right there too there isn't these days
and here's the thing this lady says you
know be don't let them make friends on
Facebook but what happens you mentioned
something to me before the show which is
a little bit scary look what happens if
somebody we've talked about fish we've
been friends a long time we've talked
about phishing scams what happens if
someone pretends to be somebody that you
know I have had three friendship
requests on facebook in the last couple
of weeks they go out and they take your
picture I had a Robbie Ferguson friend
request we've been friends a long time
yeah if I and Andres copy Ferguson my
mom but they'd even copied some of your
you know the fact that you like pie okay
some of your information from your bio
they
boro that too they bird your picture
flight at conchords reference and I'm
thinking you know why is Robbie sending
me request I've just been reading some
of his updates sure and then I went back
to check to make sure that may be here
still fun i friended me on by i was
gonna say by accident but even on
purpose and then changed his mind but no
he was still in my friend list so yeah
and i had it happen with another friend
Steve because I don't need much last
names but I've had three of them in the
last couple of weeks so be careful and I
get it to like so you're on Facebook and
this person pops in and says you've got
a friend request from and it could be it
could be your wife it could be someone
real close to you could but if you're
not already friends with Robbie Ferguson
and you get that you're gonna say oh
click sure you know and then who knows
what here's the thing if they can friend
you so let's say this guy whoever it is
and it's you know who is it right who is
pretending to be me on Facebook Ads Eric
kit as a friend because there's
obviously a connection here and they can
figure out that ok if I get them as a
friend so now if you fell for that you
accepted that what happens is I get
access to your friend list exactly so
now I can go out and I can say okay also
hahaha Hilary Rumble Rachel shoe Abigail
Smith all of these people plus everyone
else laughter all the young women
although people who work for the show
old right because they're connected to
you now that we're friends i can see
their files very very easily so by
fretted by you accidentally friending
that fake friend you've opened it up for
all your other friends to be compromised
as well and who knows how many peers a
12 year old 13 year old boy who was
kidnapped yeah on account of this stuff
with a ransom and it you know thank God
that he's okay that's serious stuff so
we need to be a careful folks really and
how many people actually do know all
their friends I mean I've accepted
friends request because well being a
musician quite off y'all send out hey
I've got a gig man talk moans this
friday night if anybody's in the area um
but i'll send that sort of thing i'm
sending the people who aren't maybe my
besties sure what uh but then you get
requests and i'm thinking
I don't know if I even know this person
right but you know if its name you know
it's a little thing I recognize that
name maybe it's somebody that I know
they are friends with all these other
people that I know exact because they
already fell for it all right my
goodness to mess what I takes care of
stuff yeah okay california teen has come
up with a way to save you from a dead
phone in just 20 seconds flat wow that's
impressive eesha khare an 18 year old
high school student has put her
impressive chemistry knowledge to work
by inventing an energy storage device
that can charge a cell phone in 20 to 30
seconds she says that her cell phone
battery always dies which led her to
work on the supercapacitor the device
which lets you store lots of energy in a
tiny space and hold it for a long time
has about 10 times the number of charge
cycles than a conventional rechargeable
battery Wow the eighteen-year-old summed
up her invention for us lay folk as
follows to improve supercapacitor and
energy tense I can't even say it to
improve a supercapacitor energy density
I designed synthesized and characterized
a novel course shown nanorod electrode
with a hydrogenated TI 0 2 core and
Pollyanna line shell well I'm glad she
dumped it up for us a whole like thank
you now she's just showing off but it's
ironic because I have four years you
remember I've been saying this year I
said if only someone would improve super
capacity energy density by designing
synthesizing characterizing a novel
course shell nanorod electrode with a
hydrogenated tio2 core and polyaniline
shell and here soon as I had a nickel
for every time I heard you say that I
know I know penniless I should have
hadn't had the idea folks I should have
patented the idea so I'm saying why
didn't I third time that's happened to
me this why didn't I think of that yeah
and you know what
she's been awarded the Intel foundation
young scientist award and 50,000
smackeroos I'm real yeah so I'd be happy
to good on you Asia yeah all right get
the full story as a category 5 TV /
newsroom the category 5 TV news room is
researched by roy w Nash with
contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a news story you
think is worthy of on-air mention email
newsroom at category 5 TV for that
category 5 TV needs from i am dr. spa
i'm eric kid easily confused by his
Lincoln few the ears yeah well you know
hey do you hear about the world's
largest LEGO model actually I want to go
back to the super capacitor charge rod
did a thing I'm seem that much that much
power in a tiny little space what kind
of evil could we Oh boys this for I'm
not risking weapons-grade naquadah in
like pill form danger Will Robinson how
can I make him I I did see a comment
there in the chat room what is this
dilithium which would be a fantastic
idea maybe we could power intergalactic
space ships with this time a game it was
wondering about when somebody he won't
he wait until you figure out how to do
it with a potato well so she's built the
ability to charge a cell phone in 30
seconds flat now if 20 seconds 10
seconds flat if ever regret it if only
Apple would now take that technology and
make it so that their phones last for
longer than 20 seconds before it started
that it's only got twenty percent
battery life then we'd be somewhere then
we'd be so take that no seriously the
the largest LEGO model ever created did
you hear about this this is fantastic uh
you need to get onto google take a look
at it but they have created a life-size
you want to see pictures of this thing
and I could
the month but you just get on to the
your favorite search engine and do a
quick search for the largest Lego
structure in the news and you'll see it
but they've created a life-size like a
real true scale model the size of the
set of the x-wing fighter from star wall
so they're just one of these things I
was up for ages 12 it up or oh boy okay
that in the back of 5.3 million pieces
of Lego the thing way am I am so close
and there's one missing and a collapse
that would be crazy your wife walks in
and locks it with the door she would too
because it's very big and the door would
be right up against it 5.3 million
pieces this thing is huge it was
unveiled at Times Square and last
Thursday and just as spectacular marvel
of the company that Lego that put this
thing together like hundreds of
thousands of man-hours it's crazy and
it's all because they've got this Yoda
chronicles starting up in the cartoon
network I think it starts tomorrow
actually so really really neat kind of
guerilla marketing publicity stunt to
pull something like that that's kind of
crazy indeed but similarly okay so I'm
like okay we'll all this buzz around
Star Wars what's that I mean you're just
trying to get your you know I mean what
are they doing really I mean start
fractures in theater logs and star wars
for the last two older yeah but Star
Trek is in the theater you yourself Eric
kid is wearing a Star Trek shirt I mean
this has got to be huge folks so it is
like your lover so what's happening with
Star Trek right so okay if they're doing
all this kind of stuff with Star Wars I
mean they've got to be doing something
with Star Trek check out new starship
calm new star ship calm this is so
exciting for TNG fans a group of fans
did a Kickstarter they raised something
like four times as much money as they
needed they have actually obtained the
original will the the 1997 Star Trek
Enterprise d ncc-1701 d bridge
I used you know my brother used to watch
that show back mrs. yes he sounds help
let even kinetics tease no we're talking
90s okay okay oh that show okay but I
remember oh sorry I posen yeah the
elevator in all his friends sitting oh I
feel like I'm going to fall all right
but check this out folks new starship
com you can find out more about the
project find out about who is supporting
at what they're doing where they're
going to be they're gonna be in Texas
they're going to be I believe in
California Las Vegas yeah and Pasadena
as well they're in long note they were
in Long Beach they're actually in
Houston Texas no just left they just
love comic comic their way yeah they're
back in houston texas in august but
anyway what they're doing is they're
actually rebuilding from the original
will from the set pieces that were
created after the destruction of the
enterprise so here are the the set
pieces as they obtained them some of
them are still in pretty good shape and
they're actually recreating got it like
that you would shut it all right just
stop just stop so they're recreating the
set and they're gonna you can rent it to
I mean photo booth whatever whole show
rental your weddin get married on the
Starship Enterprise bridge imagine that
but they've got all the part they've got
the ceiling they've got the walls
they've got the seats they've got penny
penny penny I think we should buy this
thing for this for the next category 5
set so please send in your donations we
need lots of cash it's gonna cost us
like two hundred thousand dollars what
these guys are actually doing it so find
out more on their website for that kind
of money you get through up for video
okay or or Kenya does it even exists new
starship com that is your Trek news for
tonight awesome i'm excited to see that
all right
hey we've got time for a couple viewer
questions thank you so much for sending
those in to us category 5 TV is our
website email us live at category 5 TV
to get your questions in Eric what do
you got for me there's one from a while
back I am evening Robbie hope you and
your family are well who's this this is
from scooty Duke 42 from Bolton quarter
dork England will call them scooty duck
but yes okay maybe it'll do you glad
sounds cool no the Akron keeps changing
yeah okay so even in the Robbie a hope
you and your family are well vairocina
review for an open source alternative to
skype called jitsi yeah as Jay ITSI
looks really good if you already know
about apologies but might be worth a
look on a show in the future thanks
again to you and the gang I guess I'm
gang absolutely for the great channel
yours sincerely Oh Scott Jones oh hey
Scott let's go out cheers man um okay
yeah jitsi is is definitely an
up-and-coming kind of you know secure
video calls ala kind of skype video i
think what would be exciting is it yeah
if this actually caught on and people
started using it then awesome I think we
should maybe try it out the top why
don't we try to I think the tough thing
here Scott is that jitsi is coming up
against Microsoft skype is huge google
video and google talk and all those
everything is huge everything is
established i guess you'd say apparently
lets you connect to facebook google doc
well for instant messaging for sure yeah
but you think about who they would be
competing for users against there are so
many people on skype who would have no
reason to switch to to jitsi unless
you're really into you know if you want
to be involved in a great project so I'm
excited to see where it might works on
any of us I believe so yeah yeah check
it out as jitsi org anyways if you want
to take a quick boo at what jitsi is
open source video
yo calls chat all that kind of stuff so
kind of other charges involved with this
well if you want to make phone calls I'm
sure there are like SI p kind of stuff
but as far as using general usage over
your internet connection there wouldn't
be any charges I'm not even sure yeah
i'm i'm pretty sure it does support SI p
but you can check it out on their
website at sea org thanks for the
comment Scott and I think if people
adopt it and you know I hope that that
we're able to see the market open up a
little bit more because right now it's
really kind of all skype it's KP out
there mhm alright this is from Greg hey
Greg from Michigan USA go michigan and
happy memorial day yesterday d yeah okay
uh Greg says thanks for addressing my
question about benchmarks last week you
become that may not actually been last
week that was several weeks ago but ubcd
may not be organized as well as I'd like
but it does the job ultimate boot CD I
okay that's what I thought yeah it's
been a few weeks now but yeah yeah I
think that we saw it's kind of hard to
find your way around but once you get in
and you figure out where you're going it
works really really well really
comprehensive suite of tools so took
your advice and installed point linux on
more my old machines you're right it
seems more responsive than some of the
more popular distro scope there are you
glad to hear it so good to know that
it's running well on some of those older
machines running great on our system
here point linux up on my screen that's
what we're using very cool check it out
alright well yours isn't from coal Carl
Cunningham hey Carl okay okay okay we've
been through this after me hi Robbie my
wife and I cracked up when you were
pronounced again joking about our
username okay okay did I get it wrong we
don't know as it turns out heck is both
of our initials so we grabbed the domain
from cat kept calm okay internationally
ambiguous as
whose initials come first I used the
username keck keck keck just for fun
sometimes we really enjoyed your take on
it by the way found your site about a
month ago and loved the show you have
been using Linux 14 years now almost
exclusively so that's Carl and Cathy
Carlin candy middle initials are e i
would guess we got some Carla Hathi
Cunningham within e in the middle okay
so much for tuning in Carlin Cathy and
nice to have you joining us all right
well Wow here's one from Bucharest
Romania awesome what software are you
using for URL shortening yes in cat5 TV
yeah somebody sometimes you know I say
go to cap 5 TV / whatever because that's
our URL shown right and when I do that
it actually it's not category 5 TV it's
cat five dot TV and it puts you on to
whatever site that we like to so the way
that we do that is a program called URLs
and it spelled y.o.u RLS and it's
brilliant it allows you to create your
own kind of like bit ly or tinyurl
service so you register a short URL and
then you can use it all you want and if
you wanted to you could pardon me you
could set it up to be an actual public
server that people could submit their
own URLs through it has a good API it's
connected to our WordPress blogs and
automatically generates short URLs for
Twitter for us and all that kind of
stuff so it's pretty brilliant works
very very well y ou URL s is the is the
name of it and i'll post a link for you
in the show notes of episode number 297
and those dragos a website jira question
all right before we move on tonight's
show is brought to you in part by net
talk and now they've got unlimited text
messaging you can eliminate the need for
a wireless text plan from your cell
phone provider upgrade your nettalk duo
account with the net talk text plan for
the cost of a couple of cups of coffee a
month you're going to receive unlimited
texting throughout the US and canada
check out cap five dot TV / phone and
saving money today there you have it
there's one of our short URLs cat5 TV /
phone just show you how it works also
big news from netflix over the past
couple of weeks is that the Bluths are
back ah Arrested Development the next
season is now available all 15 episodes
you don't have to wait for them they're
on netflix right now and I'd like to
give you all 15 episodes absolutely free
all you have to do is go over to cat
five dot TV / Netflix you're going to
get your one month free trial that's
plenty of time to watch the Bluths and
all of their silly antics on the final
season of Arrested Development cat five
dot TV / netflix they'll give you a free
one month trial of netflix no strings
attached you can cancel it at any time
and if you decide to keep going it's
only eight bucks a month good deal hmm
that was only 799 sorry of course we've
eliminated the and eliminated the penny
area yeah so even still alright what
else we have a question here from Danny
Harbor Danny Harbor Robbie hey how to
program to get the following working and
point Linux alright not play rented
Google movies in Linux google is showing
the phone right boon to and linux OS
users must also install the hal module
drm flashing greener yep h al HAL flash
reader for drm movies requires the
hardware abstraction layer in linux ok
because they're just not good enough
Adobe's falling behind plain and simple
and well people are why are people still
using Adobe I don't know and we're
streaming with Adobe Flash it's
frustrating as anything but when they're
behind and that so that what do they do
they say oh just install how well just
take your computer that's brand new and
bleeding edge and stick something on it
that's obsolete and deprecated and that
will make are obsolete deprecated
software work for you so but it will
work if we if we wanted to all you need
to do is install how HAL on your linux
computer what I've done is I've created
a a short link for you cat five dot TV
here it is again eh al so how flas h-how
flash enter looks like huh flush
well it's how that's why i said okay
sudo apt-get install how it's as simple
as that if you're on debian type s you
not sudo and then hit enter and then
just type apt-get install house so
that's what you need is how then you
just need to follow these really really
quick directions I mean this is telling
you to do it that's kind of dangerous i
don't think i would suggest that you do
it this way what I would suggest instead
just for safety's sake go to your home
folder hit ctrl L so that you activate
the location and just go to that dot
adobe folder dot Adobe I don't want you
to run this command that doesn't RF
because that's just too dangerous go
into flash player delete everything ok
that's your asset cash right click on it
delete it that's going to accomplish
what they're telling you to do but with
this command that they're giving you if
you accidentally miss type something
you're going to destroy your system so
we're going to forget about that all you
want to do is just install how and then
use Nautilus or whatever your favorite
you know my computer is go into the dot
adobe folder and delete everything from
there make it fair enough once you've
done that row you're gonna be able to
watch drm video there you go it's gonna
work please let us know if that worked
for you ok man we have another one here
from Scotty duckers got he Duke 42 come
on Scott we know his name hey hey Scott
evening Robbie and Eric get caught up
with episode 2 95 great show on Apache
thanks last time you were here yeah that
is lost I'm just glad you enjoyed that
lots of people sending in emails and
communicating with us about how much
they enjoyed that show which is very
very cool we don't often get into server
administration I was happy about that I
have a message to relay for to you from
last week Robert Kazinsky Oh Robert our
good friend Robert he said look Eric I'm
gonna Robert connect all it's in my own
words are you gonna paraphrase some
video someone is eloquent is robert
you're gonna paraphrase am yeah okay
okay Eric can I can I do the accent I
don't I don't think I could
don't say good day night okay I won't
ever do that I'm saying so because if
you do you sound like a tourist accent
that was Robert it was that wasn't it
particularly good as ya don't see no I
can't do Australian accent I can make it
the only way I can get an Australian
accent this is all he is to say there
you go then it all of a sudden turns
what was that you know like the good I
might see I can do that why is that I'm
not late again Robert said something
like if you say g'day mate one more time
he's gonna come and smash up your
equally so whoa he knows he knows about
us in Canada I didn't know any we do all
live in Italy just like that here you
know what Robbie just installed the
couple cedar out host in the backyard
last week it's great yes ok one more
weird one from dirt all regard cooking
hi Robbie I've been using Linux for a
little while now and love the free in
big letters dumb it gives you because of
that my girlfriend is now interested in
dual booting with MS
but he lives 80 miles away from me and
solving simple problems over the phone
as a pain you're talking about could you
show me how to remote desktops so that I
can possibly help with problems she is
reflective of computers right sorry
we're smart mater moves around a program
on this amazing show just love it tell
you Mike our hope to send a card soon to
you guys you'd love to receive the card
from you thank you girl forgive my
co-host here he's fired okay teamviewer
coming up taking my celery would know
you can eat your celery artillery
teamviewer.com all right there you go
it's free to use for you and your
girlfriend okay I know the music stopped
but there it is download it for free
it's compatible with your linux machine
you can get it to go it's gonna be
awesome and it allows you to remote into
her system very much like log me in on
Windows but this one works with linux
and windows and mac and all that kind of
stuff and it's a free download give it a
go check it out teamviewer.com that's
the one I was right favorite road okay
well are there we go we're literally out
of time but I know that's going to
answer your troubles there at least with
regards to the computer issue but I
would love to see
shut up on linux that fantastic how are
you gonna install you're gonna have to
go visit the distance 80 miles any money
telemeters 80 miles or are you okay all
right good luck thanks everybody for
watching safa dramatis is gonna be here
joining me in the studio next week we're
the fight sauce Sasha show the grocery
store the other day she told me she's
like that this guy's stalking me yeah I
was like I was at the grocery store and
he was there i was at the cafe he was
there i was you know she's arab and then
I was pulling out of the parking lot
that doc molds were in playing Friday
night and she was walking with a frenzy
and so she thinks you're stalking her I
am yeah I'm sale yeah I am yeah it's
true hire folks have a good night we'll
see ya next week
you
we hope you enjoyed the show category 5
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven p.m.
eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
