here the stories were covering this week
in the category 5 TV newsroom Dubai is
replacing a sizable number of their
police force with robots Bell Canada has
been hacked resulting in a large data
breach of customer info Nokia 3310 dumb
phone has been rebooted and is on sale
now new research has found that Yahoo
Mail has been leaking private email
attachments for years and what happens
when artificial intelligence is allowed
to name paint colors these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere
Jeff Westen yelling you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
alright you're terrible actor what does
where acting comes into play oh I don't
know we're Arctic you're supposed to act
ok I'm building a really cool website
are you building a really cool website
you need hosting one of the things about
a hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's sure how much hard drive space you
have how many email accounts how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap 5 dot TV slash dream
host for just $5 and a bit of change per
month you are going to get unlimited web
site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roof of your own
calm dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 dot TV slash
DreamHost still competitive papers are
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're going to
find five dollars and change per month
go to cap five dot TV / dream host I'm
Sacha Germanness and here are the top
stories for the week of May 24th 2017
Dubai is constantly pushing the envelope
for a smart city and now a robotic
police officer is making its rounds on
city streets the robot rolls around on
wheels it can salute bow speak in
multiple languages and
recognize hand gestures from up to one
and a half meters away it also has a
tablet lodged in its chest which
civilians can use to report crimes it
was designed by the Dubai Police with
assistance from IBM's Watson and Google
it's apparently not designed to deter
serious crime but to take over small
tasks to improve overall happiness
levels among city streets according to
the director of the smart services
department for the Dubai Police think
robots don't affect jobs the Department
hopes to replace a full quarter of its
forces with similar BOTS by 2030
who there'd be some comments on that one
questions comments thoughts concerns
Jeff I'm biting my lip does he remind
you of pepper just a little bit like a
taller yeah more authoritative pepper
you know what I don't hate this idea I
will tell a lot you know me but I don't
hate this idea I will say I would be
worried about vandals coming up to the
robot yeah look I'm here is a federal
offense
come on so they've got a cop that's a
robot replacing real cops and your
concern is not the people that are being
put out of work but the crime that's
going to happen against the robotic cop
you know yin yang we are right now yes I
think I can split down this is just a
horrible horrible idea do you know okay
okay let's take away the idea that it's
going to replace people it's also going
to free up some really horrible like
time-consuming things that a robot could
do that people don't have to worry about
but okay I can't imagine that this thing
is got a top speed of more than 3 4 K a
second I mean it's not like there's a
lot of running a per second or 3 a per
second if you can't even see it go by
Jeff you know this is almost like a
grammar flop lightning cold for km/h
that's right oh my gosh like they don't
move that fast
so thanks for calling by police we're
going to send our robotic cop out to you
to help you cross the street it'll be
there in three hours this is more for
people who are concerned that somebody's
like lawn isn't kept up you know the
people that call the by law officers
like crazy if I'm feeling robot I'll
show up in my place and say you must
pull your weeds I probably go to
vandalize Amazon needs the kind of
couple with these folks and have them
deliver packages and stuff at the same
time I think this is a robot delivery
people I can see maybe as like a joke
mall cop greeter thing where it's
standing in one place like I direct you
somewhere like I can maybe see that
maybe but to actually roll this thing
out as law enforcement is a complete
joke and what happens from a legal
standpoint because I'm sure there's
cameras in the eyes it's going to record
all this stuff right so what happens if
you come up to it and report some sort
of a crime or you do something that's
wrong where's the legal authority on
what constitutes police contact like
this is going to have legal
ramifications that lawyers are going to
love I guess we'll have to see what is
used for what does it do right
is it just a mall cop replacement right
particularly no well I yeah it's the
bags that's true I love it but I just I
love things like this I mean I think I
look it's so cute I've wanted a robot to
help me at my work for a long time I'm
not seeing iRobot I don't think we're
quite there yet so I'm not there yet
that was a fiction gesture have you seen
a little coffee it is real world has
Dubai seen Robocop that's the question
how creepy a bodega night I bugged my
boss so much about wanting a robot that
he hired me a real human ah nice so you
think it's a real human you know the
daily bring a robot into your office I'm
going to see how you feel about robots
I'm not going anywhere right
somebody needs to dust the robots
they can dust themselves have you not
seen wall-e they move at three to four
kilometers per second no definitely not
moving on
admits the noise of the wanna cry attack
Canada's largest telecom company Bell
Canada had two million of its customer
records stolen by unknown hackers Bell
said it was work it is working with
Canadian police to find out who was
responsible for the disclosure of the
customer email addresses and phone
numbers all that's needed for a massive
phishing scam the names were also
obtained for about 1,700 of their
customers Bell Canada said in a brief
statement there is no indication that
any financial password or other
sensitive personal information was
accessed serving around 21 million
customers in the great white north Bell
Canada offers both fixed line and
wireless phone service as well as
internet and television the carrier
reported revenues of five point three
eight billion dollars Canadian in their
last fiscal quarter valve Canada Bell
Canada did not say whether the customer
details stolen in the attack were pulled
from a specific service the Canadian
Privacy Commissioner's Office has said
it is also gathering data about the hack
Wow the rebooted Nokia 3310 has gone on
sale nearly 17 years after the original
made its debut the phone which has a 2
megapixel camera and relies on 2.5 g
connectivity to offer only limited
internet access is being sold for about
50 euros part of the nostalgia is found
in being able to leave your charger at
home the battery in the reimagine 3310
offers up to 22 hours of talktime and up
to a month in standby mode one expert
said success is dependent its success
depended on how much people will be
willing to pay for a device that zoos
nostalgia then would from technology
consultancy CCS insight is personally
excited about the 33 tens returned
but says if you put this in the hands of
a millennial who's addicted to snapchat
of course it's the wrong phone I feel
like it's the right phone for anybody
who wants to wean themselves off of
smartphones and back into like real life
what about like I don't like to be
connected all the time right right and
I'm sure there are still people that are
like me that are a little bit on my
electro side that way I would like that
I mean I know it a father it bothers
Dave especially will say when I'm like
checking my phone and checking my
facebook feed and things when really I
should be like really engaged in
conversation or right but it's an
addiction Mikey always you tend to be
like this because you've got Facebook
you've got every you've got email you've
got everything I would love the kids pay
as you go here you go you can call if
there's an emergency that's what phones
are about great I would have a computer
look at all this gladly buy one of these
and get myself unhooked right you can
still contact me if you need it here
yeah that's it
emergency phone in the glove box nobody
else find it intriguing that this is a
tech show we got two of you talking
about giving up tech it I love techie
when it's used properly but it sometimes
tech is abused
I like tech that minimizes the problems
in my life I don't like tech that
enhances them right so now if I'm on my
phone and I'm doing this at first I have
bad posture and I'm not paying attention
to the outside world I work for a
chiropractor bad postures big deal hmm
and I'm missing out on things and for
some reason I super care what everybody
on Facebook is doing like a super care I
care like at least four times an hour
that's how much I care
that's ridiculous I would like it I
can't just disable the app evidently I
would like a phone that doesn't happen
Jim
no I cannot she can't emotionally handle
no life I am the kind of person like I
don't judge others for it but I am not
the person who wants to be in line at
the coffee shop with a phone to his ear
because I'm not that important right
that before I'm not a doctor I don't I'm
not an emergency call people can reach
me at my office or at my home if they
need me in
if I'm in between you don't need to get
me right then and there I can call you
back
leave me a voicemail I am constantly
dealing with work emails and attachments
and I develop like Excel files and stuff
so for me the idea of switching over to
this I couldn't do it this is the first
time we've been on the opposite sides of
the robot thing this is a robot it's
sort of ya know it's artistic there's a
little fuzzy middle and a green yes it's
this is not black and white but this is
a robot situation and you like it one of
the stories we just can't agree sasha
for years yahoomail has exposed a wealth
of private user data because it failed
to update widely used image processing
software that contained critical
vulnerabilities that's according to a
security researcher who warned that
other popular services are also likely
to be leaking sensitive subscriber
secrets Chris Evans the researcher who
discovered the vulnerabilities and
reported them privately to Yahoo
engineers has dubbed them Yahoo bleed
because of the vulnerabilities caused
the site to bleed content stored in the
server memory the easy to exploit flaws
resided in image magic an image
processing library that's supported by
PHP Roby or Ruby nodejs
Python and about a dozen other
programming languages one version of
Yahoo bleed was the results of Yahoo
failing to install a critical patch
released in January 2015 a second Yahoo
bleed vulnerability was the result of a
bug that imagemagick developers fixed
only recently after having received
after receiving a private report from
Evans the vulnerability discovered by
Evans could be exploited by emailing a
maliciously manipulated image file to a
yahoo e-mail address after opening the
18 byte file chunks of Yahoo server
memory began leaking to the end user
Evans called this version of the attack
Yahoo bleed 1 Yahoo bleed 2 works by
exploiting the vulnerability fixed in
January 2015
together the bugs allowed attackers to
obtain browser cookies authentication
tokens and private image attachments
belonging
yahoo mail users despite Yahoo allowing
one of the bugs to remain unpatched for
28 months evans praised company
engineers for their speed and
thoroughness in responding to his
private report rather than patch
imagemagick
Evan said Yahoo opted to stop using the
library a move he applauded over the
past 18 months the app has come under
increased criticism for harboring
critical vulnerabilities which in the
past have threatened Facebook users
among others evans warned that other
widely used web services are still
likely vulnerable ever wonder where they
get the strange names for paint colors
it could be worse
it could be up to AI researchers
research scientist and neural network
goofball Janel Shane decided to train a
neural network to generate new paint
colors complete with appropriate names
the results are possibly the greatest
work of artificial intelligence I've
ever seen to date Shane wrote on her
tumblr for this experiment I gave the
neural network a list of about 7700
sherwin-williams paint colors along with
there are gigabytes values could the
neural network learning that's RGB
that's our patella prompter doing that
RGB and I'm you say our gigabytes
oh no it's our jelly doctor yeah Oh
oopsie that's my mistake not yours okay
I was wondering there's a gigabyte value
sometimes i repel a prompter will
convert gb to gigabyte wow he being
funny when i wrote i read it earlier i
was like I wonder if Robbie will explain
what that is hmm there you go they know
it's not an exam on our plan to learn
and invent new paint colors and give
them attractive names Shane was able to
get the algorithm to recognize some
basic colors like red and gray though
not reliably because she also gets a
sky-blue called gray pubic and a dark
green called Stu me Brown in the end she
concludes one the neural network really
likes beige brown and gray
to the neural network has really really
bad ideas for paint names possibly the
neural network needed better parameters
but really who can argue with results
like snow bonk bun flow bank but dork
would yeah thirdly Luke stop loop stop
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category 5 TV newsroom I'm
Sacha Jermaine
[Music]
[Applause]
you
