hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie and my name is Jen and on
today's show is car conversations part 2
what do you say to someone when you run
out of something to say good question
good question move over are you doing
you a lil bring my shot okay you're
hoggin strong okay we'll stay tuned
people yeah see you later hold on
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials in training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat five dot TV / Linda welcome
back everyone to new everyday and we are
in part two of our conversations now
sometimes if you're in a long trip you
can run out of things to say yes and I
remember when I first met you Jen we
were talking about small talk and how
sometimes small talk is very hard for
some people I like to talk about random
things and sometimes that goes over a
while and sometimes it doesn't but it's
nice to have some kind of formula to go
by when you need to talk about something
so janitor I'm gonna start driving and
i'll let you share your pearls that you
shared with me well Kerri why don't you
tell me a little bit about your family
might do you have brothers or sisters or
yeah I have two brothers one older one
younger and I love them very much and I
have a mama
and they live not far from me I have a
niece and a nephew Wow and how old are
the nieces and nephews my nephew is too
and my niece is seven months and there's
I love with so much I love them so one
of the things often that and you're
thinking why are you talking about
making conversation well the Bible is
very clear that people don't know about
God because they've never heard about
God and if they've never heard about God
how can they respond to who God is and
so one of the things that we need to
learn as believers as well how do you
actually start conversations how do you
carry on conversations how do you start
relationships in general well and part
of that comes from talking and how do
you actually start to continue on
conversations with people and it was
interesting last week I was watching
moms as they were walking their kids to
work to school I thought isn't that
really cool cuz you know those moms can
have some very income in common to talk
about right they have they can start a
relationship they can build a
relationship built on no warning about
being a mom walking their kids to school
and the stuff that goes on at school and
but what if you have you don't know if
you have anything in common with the
person yet which makes it small talk as
you
don't know what to dive into there's no
identifiable commonality right so one of
the things that I learned is this osh
acronym called for we're doing it
did you make it up oh no I'm not that
good
yes I think it was a multi-level
marketing thing that I was involved with
at one point I want to say oh like a
pyramid scheme what's not scheme there
was an actual plan to it and it's knew
exactly what it was okay um and I had
great products I just didn't work for me
I'm not a Salesman right you're salesmen
those sorts of things work so well but
if you're not that's so hard okay
anyways so anyways form family
occupation recreation media music movies
etc etc and I said sometimes you just
don't know what to say in conversations
so use this like I I started off with
Carrie Carrie tell me about your family
mm-hmm and people often want to talk
about themselves i remember talking
being in a truck with a guy didn't know
very well which sounds really weird I
know um anyways like I knew him like my
family knew him it wasn't wrong to be in
the truck with him um which is weird
even not to say but anyways squirrel
hardly even knew him but I use this in
my head right why did you I only I
stayed asleep to the F because I knew
about his family I went to occupation
nice I'm like what exactly is it that
you do and I started asking him
questions like so you're an ER nurse
like how did you get into that
that's some because that's what Carrie
dies and you just sort of go oh okay
well what do you do for a living or what
you know how do you spend your time and
if you're like I don't want to really go
there maybe you read something on
Facebook or maybe something happen in
the news or whatever and you can say hey
are you on facebook did you see that
post that somebody put up and okay so
the family occupation and from there I
mean so even if someone has like a desk
job you can talk about maybe experiences
that you've had in the same situation or
whatever yes and then our recreation
what's that one gen or recreation is
what do you like to do for fun like do
you like to go do you like water sports
do you prefer to read books you can even
talk about the different seasons what do
you like to do in the different seasons
exactly like if I said you know Carrie
well what do you normally do when your
time off clay know that you work shift
work and so what you doin your time off
then she could say things like
I talked to my friend Jennifer in the
car as there you go but I also know that
you have opal yeah sometimes I don't
work with you very well you have to like
green I have a saying when I talked to
difficult people it's like pulling
string out of the cat's mouth because I
have this memory of a friend telling me
that Kirk at swallowed string once and
she had to like pull it out and so every
time I have difficult conversations that
is what it feels like it feels like I'm
pulling string out of a catalog because
they're not eating anything to work with
and so Carrie is not giving me anything
to work with right now she's being
difficult so how do I deal with that
well you just keep at oh yeah and avoid
yes or no questions
that is I find if I'm talking to a
difficult person all like pretty much be
thin the information so you do this
right okay so what do you like that okay
what would you know instead of asking an
open-ended question yes and sometimes
configuring
figuring out what they like can be the
biggest thing like if they're incest
sports or if they're into books like are
you very much love to read magazines no
don't like magazine I feel like it too
shallow and so I was at a fancy pants
dinner for my work and I and I was
sitting with some of the other doctors I
work with and I just ran out of things
to say it was like 1030 we're eating
this meal and so I turned to that the
window from like what's your favorite
meal and then he started talking about
why he really and he's from India but he
actually really just liked pasta and
meatballs actually no meatballs
vegetarian
so then he started talking about why
he's a vegetarian and all and stuff and
it was great and I just asked what his
favorite campus
let's see what she did I asked her a
question and then she facilitated the
conversation like she kept it going
rather than just saying because I said
you do like magazines right and then
you're like well no I prefer books but
then she kept going on something else
which is so important if you're trying
to engage someone in conversation you
actually need to think about how you
were going to answer it's like playing a
game of ping pong okay when you hit the
ping-pong ball like the other person in
order to have a game has to hit it back
to you if they don't have it back to you
then you can't hit it back to them like
you literally have to go get another
ball and start again otherwise it's
painful actually my brother and his
friends when they were teenagers used to
play a game of ping pong but it was you
had to just hit it at the other person
as hard as you can and they had to dodge
it
it was painful look what is one-sided
it's painful there you know no stinkin
jen is that people who don't know
the Lord and maybe have an experienced
him in their life
the Bible says that the natural mind
doesn't understand the things of the
spiritual yes so in conversation it's
much more it's much easier to swing from
the natural to the spiritual so having
things to say in small talk to get to
know the person can give you that
fulcrum to swing from the natural to the
spiritual going right because that's
what you told me to do right yeah you're
talking about family maybe you talk
about your family that's a big things
that have happened in your life and when
you came to Christ you know things can
make an open up opportunities for you
right yes yes and how to share your
faith because
it could talk to somebody says because
it's the smallest talk that can lead to
deeper talk which can lead to aunty
opportunities yeah because you might
find out that somebody just lost a
husband or wife or they just lost their
job or they're really struggling with
something because maybe they just watch
something and it's really stirring up
things on the inside yeah and that
that's where the Bible says that we are
to be ready at any point in time to
share our faith and so it's like you use
those little things like you know what I
was really struggling with that too and
and I found that I prayed about it and
God really gave me peace right and then
you can sort of gauge on whether they
will pick that up and go with it or if
they would
actually shut you down yeah so but you
know what our job is actually to try try
to tell people about the Koala it's not
to try it's just to do a period but we
were commanded to tell people about who
Jesus is but so often we need those
little like how it is the building the
relationship it is knowing coming up
with conversations like conversation
starters and ways that you can get in
you know yeah to building the
relationship because and it's not just
so they become a project and I really
gonna say like if your mission is always
like got to share the gospel gonna
convert them you know that's not really
just loving the person but the
ultimately ultimately the most loving
thing that you can do for them is share
Christ with them yes because I'd
listened as people sometimes I'm like
wow if you only knew Jesus I got a
pulley if that's all right I use are
allowed well in Canada if there's a sign
if there's no sign oh no son just signs
to say no trespassing which we don't
want to do we don't want to
get into trouble I have a funny story
about singing things I went to home
depot yes to purchase some kind of drill
for my brother and I was walking back it
was in this really small town very nice
people and I heard this older gentleman
behind the desk saying you know what I
think we should just sing everything
today just sing all the orders you know
just sing to each other in conversation
so I walked up to a mouse like do you
have a drill I really need a drill and
he was like yeah that was awesome you're
totally it was great but that's where
you picked up on it right you were aware
of what was happening and you're like
yeah was hilarious I think it was likely
yes I have a drill yes I have a drill i
have a drill i have a drill yo so just
to recap Jen
when you are stuck for conversation
follow the form family occupation I
thought those like organizations for
organizations say you're part of both
are acceptable okay recreation yes what
do you do in your free time do you have
free time and media yes favorite movies
what's going on in the world interesting
article that you've read yes because God
has called us into community right and
the way that we build community is not
just doing things for one another but
also talking back and forth to one
another so knowing how to actually
engage people in conversation is so
important to building relationships we
are to be in relationship with people
and talking
like look at Jesus with the woman at the
well yes he went up and said can I have
a drink
and from that and you went from the
natural to the spiritual talking about
natural thirst and the natural thirst in
her life and then swung to hurt
other interests in her life and what she
was doing and then swung to God and she
was like well you Jews worship on the
Temple we worship on the mountain and
I'm Jesus's life there's a time that is
coming when you will worship in the
temple or in the mouth but God is going
to seek those who worship Him in spirit
worship Him in spirit and in truth that
she encountered the Living God
encountered the living block right yes
yes so because he engaged her in
conversation yeah so why don't I just
pull over den and we could maybe pray
that for sure
we're pulling over and what's really
cool is beside us is like massive pile
of hay and it actually makes me quite
happy like I want to go and climate like
how did they stuck at that high tractor
yes it's on my bucket list time I told
you that that I want to drive a backhoe
yeah after or excavator yep I'm working
on it any of those three mmm backhoe or
tractor would be the highest above an
excavator we'll talk about it I'll
google it what are you Bridget Heavenly
Father thank you so much that you call
us into community and you want us to
build relationships with people whether
they know Jesus or they don't know Jesus
and that comes with actually sharing
sharing ourselves with us with each
other through conversation and Lord
sometimes that is just so tough but Lord
you can equip us you can inspire us you
can teach us what you want us to say and
how to say it but Lord ultimately you
want us to build relationships with
people and that often will start with a
simple hello how are you and so father
we ask that you would guide and direct
our conversations that you would inspire
us and encourage us to talk to people
and we ask this in the name of Jesus
through the power of the Holy Spirit
amen comin thank you for tuning in again
I have really enjoyed this I feel like
you're just right along here with us in
the car it's been a lot of fun it has
been a lot of fun so I hope that you'll
tune in next week at check out our
website new everyday TV check out a
partners page if you would support us we
were just so
speak that we just want to thank
category 5 TV Robbie Ferguson art
director producer editor all of the
above for making this show possible so
check out our partners page see if
there's any links on there that could
maybe I'll be do some shopping go to the
Amazon link or the Amazon link all right
have a wonderful you can see you next
time
