welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 502 and it's
Wednesday the 3rd of May 2017 nice to
see I got my friends here we're going to
have a fun time
Henry Bailey Brown is going to be
showing us a tool that you can use to
make sick beats and cane music we're
going to turn you into a music producer
for free and stick around
that's our Tomatoes over in the newsroom
what do you got for us ah here's what's
coming up in the category 5 TV newsroom
a real-life Iron Man suit took flight on
Thursday Facebook's at 3,000 employees
to watch for inappropriate content
Microsoft has announced their latest OS
to compete against Google's Chrome OS
Amazon wants you to have meaningful
conversations with Alexa and you Vsauce
is giving you a free weekend to play the
division stick around the full details
are coming up later in the show this is
category 5 technology TV our live
recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
kingston SSD you category 5 TV is a
member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here cat 5 GB flash TPN
and the international association of
internet broadcasters cat 5 gb / IA ib
this is category 5 technology TV our
websites category 5 dot TV easy to
remember I just realized
category 5 TV his category 5 dot TV not
that info head on over we still I'm
still getting notes from people saying I
didn't know you did more shows than just
pack your nation shall yeah we have six
regular broadcasts so right now yet
right so if you want to head on over to
our website category 5 TV you'll be able
to check out some of those we're going
to have some other shows picking up over
the next couple of months because with
summer here what do we want to do we
want to put the drones up in the air our
top seller this week Henry is drones
that
actually makes me feel so happy right
now we're starting to feel the need to
fly as a need a need Rio flying today
yeah I was flying for clients today is
fun nice and it's beautiful days you
know it's corners day first Wednesday in
a while that it hasn't been rainy
I know knock on wood because it's
supposed to be rainy all day tomorrow
night right right but you can go to have
five dot TV slash fly to see some of the
drones that I love and you see them
sometimes on the set here around us and
everything and of course we've got NCC
1701 a given but yeah definitely it's
time to start flying tonight
Oh introducing ourselves I'm Robbie by
the way I'm Sasha
and I'm not Henry Henry looking sharp I
know they took my hair and I made a few
pillows out of it you know goes oh
recycling love will react meaning keep
yeah you know what well it's nice
because I'm more aerodynamic now so it's
like it's not like a giant sail on my
head right here so it's like I'm not
being blown around by the wind too much
or yeah yeah I'm like very erudite the
money your conditioner alone I know it's
been saying like ever ever saving
millions on shampoo you guys have no
idea you have no idea
razors on the other hand unbelievable go
to cat5 TV / shave you'll see how I do
that save you mean you're not naturally
bald oh yeah pretty much does it baby hi
did this God did this so let's just
leave it here
yeah we work together on this they will
probably kill me now for saying that but
is the same deal yeah yeah well it could
be worse he quite sees my problem is as
it grows in right here like around like
from here down and it grows in thick so
I would say I look like Bobo the clown
great so I don't like that myself we
could diet right like yeah I like bleach
it got your kids to die for you to come
with her if I grow this side oh yeah I
could actually bring it back on orangie
blonde that don't nobody knows nobody no
nobody would ever know that's what the
summer sorted browner 13 egg what say we
get into the mailbag we've got a lot of
emails and comments
YouTube and email yeah that's where
email usually come from for us not the
interwebs post on our Twitter account
and so on and so forth
Brittany Marie sent us one yes who's
taking it oh well alright sure okay so I
have several pcs around the house we're
going to Lynette ready Marie Brittany
yes not me okay yes you blew through
Linux Windows and Mac plus a bunch of
pies doing different things most of
which probably don't require backing up
more than config files but the Linux
Windows and Mac machines have stuff I
wouldn't want to lose and have very and
have various backup strategies what's an
open source Linux solution for backing
up all these pcs remotely over my
network can our just do anything like
that yeah I would say our diff backup
it's our diff - backup that's the one
you want to look at if you go back over
some old shows here I'm going to just do
a quick little search on our website if
you go to category 5 TV and then click
on the search up at the top right and
when I'm there I'm going to type in the
search I'm going to try this LVM space
backup let's see if it comes up if my
search query is good okay we've got
introduction to LVM backups yeah episode
461 linux backups with LVM snapshots and
our diff backup so looking at that
episode 461 of course we were looking at
LVM snapshots hmm but our diff backup is
separate from that it doesn't require
LVM snapshots you can use it just as a
backup tool regardless of whether you
want to use LVM or not so that's how
that episode even if you're not doing l
VMs learn about our diff
it is awesome you know about our sink
which is designed to remotely save
things over a secure connection so that
you can save them anywhere do a backup
or copy files and synchronize them here
are some of the core differences about
our TIFF backup first of all it is a bit
for bit backup so what it does if you
create a full backup then the next time
you run the backup it's only going to
save the changes that you've
made since that first back up and then
you can revert back so a good example of
why that is really amazing I have a
customer who has a three terabyte or a 4
terabyte external backup unit and they
were backing up full full backup copies
every night and they could store about
seven days worth of backups Wow
now we and so then they can go back so
cryptolocker hits they lose all their
files on today's file system they can go
back to day before yesterday no problem
because there's a tar file and it's got
everything
now with our diff backup on the other
hand they can go back we set it up in
November of 2015 and they can go back to
any day since that date and they're
using about a third of the space on the
backup drive as they were previously for
seven days worth of backups like time
traveling it's nuts yeah well you know
that I think about Mac time machine yeah
that just reminds me of it it's very
very similar in its mechanism because
it's only saving the bits that have
changed regardless of whether it's a
local file system or a remote file
system it's it's going to save you
bandwidth it's going to make it a faster
backup the backups used to take several
hours now they take about 30 seconds and
most of that time is just checking the
check sums and checking for changes
before actually running the upload so it
has so many different advantages but
would that be safe against and I am
going to get this question possibly
somewhat wrong do you are there's your
there's your warning after that so
something like this would work against
what is it's and the hackers come in and
they do something you need to pay
Bitcoin I just let that later like I
sometimes say cryptolocker but
ransomware
ransomware it so would that if you were
to run that backup like is it safe
against ransomware like would that be a
good remember how you said something
that one might have said oh yeah that
one time that's at one time you said
right thanks yeah you said if you're
backing up and you backup like the
actual backup the backup and say but no
but you're if you're backing up the
virus you back up the sing yeah right
and with
yeah so another thing you know what you
know my question I'm having a hard time
putting you know I understand what I
think so are detrack up stores the bit
changes right in such a way that you can
go back to any day previous okay so it's
not like totally over writing in any if
if I ransomware were to attack my
network yeah and then the backup runs
traditional backups would then be
overwritten and so now your backup is
lost as well because the files are now
encrypted right yeah so with our diff
backup yes that still happens it will
still risk all of your files and that
night's backup will basically encrypt
everything but then when you realize
that you say oh well let's go back to
yesterday's backup oh it must have
happened on Saturday so let's go back to
Friday's backup so you can just go back
a day if you liner today that's right
that's right
and then the key thing from a system
administrator standpoint is just to make
sure that the the actual are dif backup
folder is not writable by an anonymous
user basically so that that ransomware
can't go into that folder and starting
oh yeah actual backup itself so you like
it's only certain privileges then so
it's like only this user can do this at
this time you can set it up if you
wanted that the only user who has access
to overwriting the backup folder is the
backup user and that backup is never
able to be touched by any of the other
users right so that's amazing defense
give it a look alright and check that
out Brittany Murray thanks for the
question what do we got from Vegas ska
I can do Vegas car the description of
the game Sasha gave in episode 501 sorry
but episode RL now 504 502 502 so last
week last week last week okay so I'm not
riding like it reminds me of not moon
Patrol rule is not a problem okay that's
would be real one of my fit one of her
favorite games that's awesome one of
your favorite games for the Atari could
that be the one from nine saludos dez de
mexico they got some mexican in their
way
des des des meheeco you see this this
could very well be it except that in my
mind it goes the other direction you go
the other direction we're watching a
preview on YouTube oh you have to
remember any of the shooting okay that
doesn't work does it look kind of like a
is good yeah well yeah this is the
closest I've seen like good those are
the little Valley over the valleys I
don't see any in your life tomorrow
chicken chicken men keep in check
you can manage quite young man I played
that at the time brush lightly I was
Michael do you think that might not
might be an intuitive suspicion I
actually want to please I feel like it
might be in but it absolutely be a very
close approximation like what I was
playing was likely like a ripoff version
of moon Patrol so she had the ripoff
version I remember having to shoot
things out of the sky but then again
maybe I just didn't
maybe I just just ran and jumped and
lost a job for only four and exactly no
having fun it could very well mean I did
mystery solved moon patrol is the answer
but rolling so alright if you have any
suggestions as to what you think it
might have been well if you know other
games that are very similar to moon
patrol knockoff of moon patrol yes
without shooting and and more more bunny
like and going in the other direction in
the other direction right to left
it was the Hebrew version alright let's
have a quick look at our prize bin we
have upgraded the kilowatt the kilowatt
we described it last week it's a cool
device that you plug in and then you
plug your devices into it and it will
tell you how much power it's using how
much it costs you this is something you
can win in the treasure chest
we've upgraded that sense to the rio r
and plug power energy which has a built
in battery backup so that if you're
working in a tight space say behind your
fridge or something want to find out how
much energy your fridge is using the
kilowatt got really really difficult to
get in there and see the screen because
as soon as you unplug it it loses its
memory oh you upgraded it to one with a
battery backup for you so that when
you're done testing you can unplug it
you can look at the screen and it's the
battery keeps it running for you so it
doesn't reset every time you take it out
push the reset button it also allows you
to program your kilowatt your your per
kilowatt hour price for electricity and
then that way the the equation that it
shows you the actual amount that that
device is costing you is accurate down
to the down to the penny Wow very cool
stuff if you're going to deal with like
time of day stuff you have to calculate
that yourself but you program in one
price and it will tell you the equation
we've also got a category five season
seven collectible photo book in the
treasure chest
we've got Amazon gift cards a VR headset
so the you turn your smartphone into a
virtual reality viewer
we've got Chipola Bluetooth tracking
devices so that if you ever lose your
stuff your keys and things like that you
can bring it up on your loan and see a
map and track that device we've got the
world's best coffee mug which I love
it's a vacuum-sealed thermos mug
stainless steel no plastic in the in the
cup itself then we've got a micro drone
with a six axis gimbal and a stick bot
green screen kit so all these things are
in a treasure chest right now and you in
order to qualify to win any one of those
prizes and you get to pick this is the
fun thing about the treasure chest we
open it up for you if you win and you
get to select which prize you want and
the way that you can qualify for that is
to send us an email contest at
category-five TV and simply tell us a
little bit about what you love about the
show how you found us you know just give
us a little bit of a backstory tell us
about yourself and what you love about
category-five TV so speaking up we've
got a couple of ballots we can't get
into all of them tonight but let's take
a look at now brittany marie was
commenting off the top of the show let's
jump into brittany Marie's comment where
they said I stumbled into category 5 TV
through a gurgle gurgle through a Google
search for information on running plex
on a Raspberry Pi so episode 459 was my
hook and I've had perfect
attendance ever since we're going to
start taking attendance can we put gimme
can carry it like a golden snake yeah
yeah like yeah a golden we're going to
have an attendance chart Garbi is is
like in the lead right now with like 400
episodes under his belt and and brittany
marie is catching up really really fast
says at near retirement age the show
feeds my hunger for continued learning
awesome
I've greatly increased my knowledge of
linux which has done much to improve my
capabilities in an IT career it's such a
fun show with the added value of
revealing trends in cutting-edge
technology and I'm always happy to use
the affiliate links to support the show
with my weekly Amazon orders thank you
so very much
keep up the outstanding work it's always
appointment TV for me thanks for all
Sasha I want to take a look at the next
one for us yes yes I do yes yes I do yes
I knit yes I knit this is you know the
other cool thing about this contest is
that we're getting to meet some of our
fans and trending viewers of the show
that aren't frequent therefore we
frequenting they are freaks
they aren't frequenting well and so we
don't get to communicate with these
folks often so yes I knit sent us a
ballot as well I just want to say
something about knitting I used to knit
and now like as soon as I read that I'm
like oh I finger crochet I shouldn't it
I Stan it as a kid I like cork work I do
scarf I used to knit on flights I just
would round needles and hats but now you
know they don't allow me now they don't
allow needles on flight it's not like I
just finger fashion I know do it Tasha
might be a little tension with the
needle right hmm okay alright take it
away yes I'm it says I found the show by
discovering mangofox 70 on the pixel
shadow and have been watching ever since
so you have mined tests to thank for my
attention your show has taught me so
much about of them too and when my last
update to balloons who failed I was able
to install Ubuntu Matei after watching
your show about it you and the crew are
amazing and I love the fact that not
ever
one you have in the crew is a computer
genius cause this makes it very easy for
a noob to the Linux universe feel less
stress I feel stressed just even asking
a simple question about what is this
thing okay keep that what else button do
that' cool keep the how to zap and
remember the audience has a number of
beginners Robbie you do tend to go a lot
over my bald head there you go
I do I dunno I do love the knowledge you
inspire I have bought may I bought many
books to help me understand the things
you were sharing clearly I'm not a very
good reader keep the Sacha show going it
actually says that actually says that I
feel like a target is bold that's good
the represent is this as yes I need a
male well not necessarily
possibly we don't know gender
nonspecific however a knitting bald man
or woman putting at many a toque for
themselves there you go keep self warm
in the Canadian winters Aereo speaking
of Canadian winters guess what the next
next wonderful comment says I'm not hold
I'm hungry old man dude nothing
ok so Angela says hi Angela hi Angela my
favorite thing about the show is Robby's
great Canadian accent hey I'm guessing
that it's because you say thank you so
much
that's what does it anyway thank you for
yeah what about that E ku ku ku ku ku
set your hos re actually and in school
we have to learn that theme song so
really yeah school has change things
have changed thank goodness yeah well
thank you it's interesting isn't it that
you don't hear an accent in yourself you
hear it yeah we're so used to it so
what's where where are you from that's
the question so when you say I've got
the Canadian accent what
what does that mean like the Australian
correctly or it could be from Boosh
right sir Switzerland or know he's gonna
heckle Mexico as mentioned earlier
no no really that's the calling about I
gotta go I can stabs in it not even
going to start say it's that that's a
cool thing about cat5 is that since
we're on the Internet everyone can get
through to category buff and I've got
I've got Scottish and Irish in my blood
I'm anxious of everything I'll I and
born and raised here in Canada a good
night regular old party okay yeah I know
that I'm a half Lithuanian and half
Scottish which is interesting if any of
you are Lithuanian and you realize that
I am NOT like ridiculously tall and
blonde with blue eyes like all every
every single other Lithuanian I've ever
met so I look like to the saddest poser
shortened yeah I guess so I guess so
like shorten me and darken me I was born
in Canada obviously what my like
heritage has like this tall blonde
inside me to come out one of these days
right do we have time for one more yes
okay David says I found episode 337
going way back I was researching how to
move a Linux home partition that's one
that keeps coming up the you and I did
that's right your earlier shows and that
was a really great episode says I've
been watching from around episode 419
and had joined patreon shortly after
thank you so very much
David says I like finding out about new
hardware software gadgets I also like
keeping up with the tech news since I am
NOT into the computer industry but do
use computers with a slight Linux bias
sounds like a Sasha fan mmm thanks David
thanks David I'm a fan so if you sent in
your ballot do know that we have counted
that even if we didn't get a chance to
read it on air tonight thank you so much
for all your kind comments folks and we
will definitely love to to receive your
ballots all you have to do is email
contest at category-five and share some
words about the show
all right we've got to take a really
quick break when we come back sastra
madness is over in the news room aka
right here and she's got our top tech
news with a slight linux bias stick
around
Jeff Weston jela you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
alright you're a terrible actor
what this where acting comes into play I
don't know where are they you're
supposed to act okay fair enough
I don't know really cool website are you
building a really cool website you need
hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's true how much hard drive space you
have how many email accounts how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just $5 and a bit of change per
month you are going to get unlimited web
site hosting unlimited email accounts on
that hosting service you are also going
to receive a free domain name the roof
of your own calm dice to put that
amazing website that you've been working
on on there if you run if you want to
build a wordpress site fine sign up cap
5 GB flash dream host still folks out
about papers on it just don't do it but
hey it's a great deal folks best deal
you're going to find 5 dollars and
change per month go to cap 5 dot TV /
dream host I'm Sachi drew Madison here
are the top stories for the week of May
3rd 2017 British inventor Richard
browning lifted off from the shore of
Vancouver harbour on Thursday in a
personal flight suit that inspired
references to Ironman using thrusters
attached to his arms and back browning
flew in a circle and hovered a short
distance from the ground captivating
attendees at a prestigious TED
conference the personal flight suit is
capable of repelling wearers much higher
and faster according to its creators the
extreme athlete and engineer said the
hypothesis was that the human mind and
body if properly augmented could achieve
some pretty cool stuff
browning told
experimenting with various numbers and
arrays of essentially miniature jet
engines on his limbs along the way he
said there were more than a few crashes
to the ground
browning said the whole journey was
about trying and failing and learning
from that the first reasonably stable
six-second flight with the gear inspired
his team to press on his startup gravity
formally debuted about a month ago
browning said he is already getting
interest from investors and some in the
British military who told him that they
had given up on the flight feature of an
Iron Man suit until seeing his human
propulsion gear I will say he's been
testing this in Canada where there's
free health care you're going to fly and
fall you might as well be here he's
laughing that is so crazy cool ok Mark
Zuckerberg announced today that his
company Facebook will hire 3,000
additional employees over the next year
in an effort to respond to reports of
inappropriate materials on the social
media network and speed up the removal
of videos showing murder suicide and
other violent acts the hiring spree is
an acknowledgement by Facebook that at
least for now it needs more than
automated software to improve the
monitoring of posts Facebook live a
service that allows any user broadcast
live has been marred since its launch
last year by instances of people
streaming violence Zuckerberg the
company's co-founder said in a Facebook
post the workers will be in addition to
the 4,500 people who already review
posts that may violate its Terms of
Service Zuckerberg said we're working to
make these videos easier to report so
that we can take the right action sooner
whether that's responding quickly when
someone needs help or taking a post down
the 3,000 workers will be new positions
and will monitor all Facebook content
not just live videos we've yet to learn
where the jobs will be located that's um
that's going to be a tough work because
you really want live to be live right
like you want life to be live if you're
going to call it live but now you have
to I don't think that that's the intent
behind live broadcast that's the sad
thing the sad thing about this whole
world that we live in is like this kind
of crap shouldn't happen sad no okay
Microsoft launched it launched its
latest version of Windows 10 yesterday
Windows 10 s it's designed for education
and to take on Chromebooks and Chrome OS
the biggest change to Windows 10 s is
that it's locked to only work with
Windows Store apps that means you'll
need to find the apps in the stores
download and install them and many
desktop apps like Photoshop and Chrome
simply aren't in the store yet microsoft
claims that security and performance
will both be improved with Windows 10 s
since apps won't be able to run unless
they're packaged and available in the
Windows Store that should help prevent
malware and unnecessary apps from
running a boot up while you will be able
to install a different browser on
Windows 10 asked users won't be able to
alter their default browser that means
if you click on a link from within an
app you'll be forced into Microsoft edge
browser I've never even heard of that
Microsoft is also locking down Microsoft
edge to only work with its Bing search
engine you'll be able to use the Google
Website of course but if you type your
query into the address bar its Bing all
the way this new OS will likely lead to
some confusion for users who pick up a
cheap laptop and want to start running
desktop apps that they can can't find
them in the store that was a major
hurdle for Windows RT and Microsoft will
have to manage the inevitable consumer
confusion better this time around
so you've never heard of edge no it's
pretty edgy what it's it's what let's
just say you've got a friend who anytime
they encounter your computer the very
first thing that happens yeah
Chrome ok right yeah Thank You Robby
I've asked you're welcome you saved me I
think from a lot he's never even seen
and
that's how good of a friend I am good
job I don't even know what it is I don't
know back it's awesome
it would seem Amazon wants you to have
meaningful conversations with Alexa
Amazon recently released new tools to
app developer developers that allow
Alexa to whisper show emotion and pause
naturally like we humans by the
dollhouse what if that actually happens
though like subliminal messaging it's
like you know I'll be really nice if you
had this dollhouse you know what about
if you talk in your sleep right unless
you're running you talking you're early
spring to you or you start winning are
you lullabies I don't know about come on
something out of a horror movie now it's
getting really great because I see
meaningful conversations but you know
what this could help this is like that
girlfriend in a box situation that's
remember that noose to get a key a
buying from Japan I know it really your
real interesting and out friends you
like a really anime and they're like
yeah I'm all for this I'm like I don't
know I feel kind of weird about that but
now your girlfriend in a box wants to
have deep meaningful conversations with
you so you don't need a real girlfriend
Alexa just became very meaty Wow I don't
know rain is coming hey that is that
wasn't written in the new story yeah
yeah okay she's digressing she's
embellishing the news I'm judging Alexa
but you know what do what you think is
right and that's just the start so is
review prasad amazon's head scientist
for alexa who's who is playing a key
role in the retailers efforts in
artificial intelligence for alexa using
computers to converse with us prasad
says i truly believe that for AI to be
useful in our lives it has to be
something you can connect with
conversation is the next step to be more
human-like Alexa competes with other
personal digital assistants like Apple
Siri Microsoft's Cortana
and the Google assistant and has emerged
as one of the leaders in voice computing
the echo product is one of Amazon's most
popular and
we had to head reviews site Alexa as the
most effective I I don't know a lot
about Alexa I like the idea I just don't
like the I just don't want it to be too
human
I just we're excited to try a robot yeah
I want I want her to be a clear line
between human robot right this is like
me to make that lasagna just like your
grandma uh I just went on far more
robotic or I like what if you're having
an argument with your spouse and Alexa's
like I don't like the way that she's
talking to you just let her go it gets
too deep Thank You batteries you go
that's when Alexa gets thrown across the
room just know like okay Ubisoft really
wants you to like the division so go
play it for free whether you're on a
PlayStation 4 Xbox one or Windows CC
you'll be able to download and install
an unlimited copy of the game from
tomorrow until Sunday
that's May fourth to seventh 2017 for
those of you catching this in 2028 any
progress you make during the free
weekend will of course carry over should
you decide to buy the game the division
of Ubisoft answers to the increasingly
popular brand of live games like destiny
which draw inspiration from the social
emphasis and event-driven gameplay of
MMORPGs in this one players are
deposited into a post-apocalyptic
version of midtown Manhattan widespread
illness led many to flee the city before
it was quarantined and those who are
left have kinda lost it you step into a
role of a government operative in the
division a network of trained sleeper
agents that don't activate until things
get really bad along with the free
weekend Ubisoft will also be running a
sale on the division you'll be able to
pick up the standard version of the game
on ps4 and Xbox one for $19.99 until May
15th the PC version is also on sale for
$5 more until May 7th I feel like I'll
probably get Dave to play this thank you
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux
and for more free content be sure to
check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
dramatis thanks Sasha this is category
five technology TV we've got to take a
really quick break when we come back
Henry's got a present age worth going to
show us how to make beats fat sick beats
don't go anyway now here's another great
way you can support the shows you love
from the category-five TV network by
shopping gearbest that's the right Jeff
cat5 dot TV slash gearbest it's an
online store for the geek streak in you
or the loved ones of course I mean
especially your loved ones right because
cat5 DB slash gear best quite frankly
has all of the greatest tech gifts that
you could ever hope for at rock-bottom
prices to their cellphones
you bet you cap 5 TV slash gear best has
a wide assortment of unlocked Android
cell phones and tablets global compute
consumer electronics those like a great
gift absolutely from high tech watches
to action cameras headphones even
virtual reality headsets cat5 dot TV
slash gearbest has you covered they
literally have it all Jeff literally
really it's like a superstore right from
the comfort of your own chair at your
computer through the interweb yeah
there's no way they have it all true
it's just a bunch of a random electronic
test me
[Music]
what about clothes yep both men and
women fashionable apparel at rock-bottom
SuperDuper prices kinda like this well
look at this coat what do you think it's
a slimming mock leather jacket I love it
it's available for less than $30 plus
free shipping at camp five dot TV slash
gear best yeah alright you kinda got me
there
Wow any other questions for me gentlemen
now that the winter is past flying
seasons do they have any good deals and
say copters old my goodness well check
this out dude
they have everything check out over 500
various drones and not only that they're
available marked down by about 32 up to
63 percent off the regular price love it
what's website again while you're going
to find gear best on our partners pages
for any of your favorite category 5 TV
shows like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat5 dot TV slash gearbest
so that's easy catch five dot TV slash
your best that's right
happy shopping welcome back this is
category pocket okay get it to do any
good hey Megan our website category five
da chibi Henry Bailey Brown has brought
us beat boxes with us because it's in
it's in chrome you know what that's the
coolest thing about this is that oh you
don't have to download anything to your
computer nice and it's free and you can
actually use it to make some sick beats
ease but Henry what is it it's your
imagination just kidding no it's
actually a actually website guys so
throughout category five we've mentioned
so many amazing online tools like pixels
like images yeah GIMP which is you can
of course edit images but now we're
switching censors from your eyes to your
ears and your soul so today ya know
we're getting really peeved guys
it's called audio tool calm and it is a
free
website with a free built-in audio
mixing software so if you ever used
GarageBand mixcraft EDUCAUSE like that
it's like that but it's literally all in
the cloud and it's all web-based and
it's free so free free yeah I know you
can ask for a refund but you get nothing
back because it's free but it's a lot of
ask for refunds I'll try
but yeah so it's like um honestly anyone
could try for free again it's online
it's audio tool calm and if you're for
example if you have an online TV show if
you have a podcast if you want to just
make some sweet introductions for music
wise and this is your site right yeah
and yeah if we switch to where can we
see yeah sure so what you're seeing now
is it it's amazing um I can't really is
there a way to like scroll like mouse
pad like scrolling Oh like mm sorry no
it's okay I can I can use the top left
here I can use this guy um so pretty
much oh I see I see yeah okay you
actually are navigating around that's
the coolest part is that it's visual
because a lot of programs nowadays
especially if you aren't a musician or
nothing else if you're a guy like me who
just must make some sick beats ease or
whatever you want to call them um be
peace be it be peaceful yeah parent lis
I don't know but no like it's all visual
so like as you can see here on the one
full screen that's taking over my face
I'm just yeah I'm kind of as he's
speaking I'm setting up shots here so
that you guys can see this so bear with
me here probably going to be edited it's
David so alright so take us for the tour
here yeah for sure so this is kind of a
basic setup that we have here um so if
you have any audio experience at all or
if you've seen any movies about it this
actually you know what let's just make a
really fast project here I'm just going
to say digging here right plugged in
I'll you up yeah yeah okay so if I press
play right now I don't know if they can
hear you you guys hear him along
same time coming on so while waiting for
them to get back hopefully like here
I'll just turn down the ball yeah I gave
and just turn it down slide oh just oh
yeah yeah well I just turned it down
right here so cool okay yeah so pretty
much these are like really simple things
you can do and it's just like a really
simple project that I made literally in
like two or three minutes and I'm just
going to create a new file right now
just show how easy the site is because
again it's all visual based and you're
just doing this in in Chrome yeah this
is all in Chrome like this is literally
sweat browser so I'm just going to start
an empty project alright and this way
you get so this represents your out so
this is like your final product and this
is your audio board it looks really
complicated anything it might look
complicated don't worry pretty much all
you need to know is that each volume
mixer so like each slide here is a
different track so it's just like Garage
Band and mixcraft and all those guys you
have loops which may or may not load
there you go so and these are free so
you got random loops I can use right and
again these are all Muslims are creative
comments so I can use them for whatever
you're doing so let's say if I find a
loop that I really like simple click and
drag into my workspace boom and it's
whatever huh it's there and it's
automatically connected and again since
its visual based you literally see a
wire come from our little audio file
that's represented at this as this
little block and it goes into the first
audio mix right here so if I press play
you can see it right here and I can edit
the levels I can make it ladder not as
loud so it's like that and you can
import your own sounds so like if you're
a drummer and you do your own things
like that you can do that as well
and you if you have a mic you can add
your own voice you had singing and stuff
you can add your own muse you can add
your beautiful angel like blah hip-hop
sik ryeom Ron's nice so okay so how how
long would it take to put a beat
together like a new one right now do one
right now
yeah exactly I'm going to show them
something really cool all right we want
to see this and it's really interesting
because just just to take out there this
is audio tool dot-com which surprisingly
enough actually my DJ nickname Wow
hello audio - look your site okay really
quickly because there's a lot so here
and we don't have that much time on the
right here so like again these are like
a lot of loops and there's a lot of user
made loops too so you can upload your
own if you want um is that here we have
like different things called drum since
tools and effects alright so I just want
to touch on like the tools and effects
today so something here called tone
matrix I put into my work area boom
again you see it automatically goes to
the second track right here but this is
doing a loop this is your own tool so
pretend if you have a beat in your head
like nananana or something like that
let's let's draw a pretty pattern here
and you'll see what I mean so if I go
like this I was like a piano roll and if
I press play no way I'm going to solo if
that is a my name you can make a smiley
face and here what like this another
place looks like it and then you add
this other guy back one sec go it's
Robbie
but what that's choke on what what first
and no and that and that's my amazing
part about these tools is that they're
free yes but they're powerful and that's
so great to see on the internet nowadays
and one other thing I will show you
before we do anything else is that we
have a little panel here called effects
so again if you've ever used like a
program before like mixcraft or
GarageBand you have like effects that on
reverb for example so if I click and
drag this it's my workspace it's here as
well um but I'm not sure if there's any
musicians in our audience but if you
ever see like those foot pedals that
like guitarists have or something they
kind of look like this but see how it
says out right here I'm going to have to
zoom in to show you it says out on our
little
Audio matrix here okay yeah if I click
and drag this you can rewire things yeah
again it's all visual so if I take that
out from this guy and put it into the
reverb so it goes from here to the
reverb and from the reverb back into my
audio panel and I play again it's kind
of hard to notice because this one
already has reverb a little bit but I
can add control a reverb effect you
definitely hear that if you had a paper
crack something like that yeah and again
there's so many facts there's so many
rules and I'm going to show one more
tool off and then we can just let them
play around with this um and just show
just how powerful this tool is let's get
out our wonderful giant machine of
amazingness right here it'll take a
second to load there you go now again
since this is a free website there's a
lot of users on it all right
is that a ts404 what is that I'll show
you added some so if you right-click you
can say low preset yeah and again
there's some made by audio comm etcetera
yeah um but let's say ambient kick or no
into the dubstep
let's get Robbie down here sweet let's
apply and it's loaded in if you track
the already okay yeah so now it's a drum
roll yeah and it's just like before but
if I press play now
this trip hop yeah it's just had them by
yourself now you can see it go along
again I'm not sure how many like these
people are up there but you can change
it so then like goes by Ford's go by
teeth like I say now is they're all
music people that's right guys our CV
it's accessibility and that's the cool
thing about the Internet is that again
free tools like this accessible to
everyone and if your youtuber if you
like making just music for fun if you do
it professionally it's one like a new
tool play around with sure it's hid
right like my son is 9 years old
exactly stop-motion stick stick bots and
things like that
this gave me something he said to us I
wish I could add my own music he can't
and now we can and that's the cool thing
is that since it's all visual based on a
lot of programs nowadays like the
high-end ones again like grojband and
stuff yeah um Garage Band isn't I guess
high level but it's a good intro level
right um is that there's a lot of
buttons and it can get using and there's
a lot of send FL Studio for example yeah
really Pro software exactly you really
you have to be good with computers good
with me exactly and we're going to be
able to set it up this will exactly drag
and drop simple exactly and that's a
cool thing is that it's very visual days
you saw things that you can actually
connect wires to connect things to
effects so it's a great teaching tool
but again you saw how powerful this can
be and we've only been playing around
with it for five to ten minutes so you
can make an introduction to a podcast
you can just play it on for fun right
yeah really lost in it and just oh yeah
we're here yeah and on the major main
page of this website there there are
plenty of examples if you just go there
people make entire songs like you just
saw me make like a 10-second loop you
can make entire songs and add your own
voice or you know if you're want to be
superstar make your mix track so you
mentioned a lot of the stuff is Creative
Commons can ya can you export to like an
mp3 file yeah I can file and before we
go I want to show how to do that because
if you save draft a click file save
draft there
the important thing to note is that you
give it a title so Henry's cool track
whatever you can upload cover art so
again if you make something in GIMP
there you go you can upload it there on
tags or internet etc on the very bottom
here it says license if you click on
license there's three offices at your
own license your three all and this is
important because the first two are
Creative Commons all right so
share-alike 3.0 and non-commercial
pretty much attribution alright so what
these two options do is say that um you
can actually puts them on a website so
people can use your loops that you make
in their own loops so it's a huge
community right now which is awesome
yeah but with that being said um if you
don't want like if if you're doing your
own album or something you can say all
rights reserved and you know you can't
you it won't share for you right so nice
if you want to keep it private you can
do that so you can just say copyrighted
so and so alright so but yeah so that's
a cool thing again you can control your
own license um and it's it's really cool
because again anyone can use the site
and I think we're seeing more more of
these kind of programs pop up and it is
it's flash based so you do need to have
Adobe Flash very true it is flash to
have yet so um so if you are running
Linux or something and you don't have
Flash installed so again we have to
reboot yeah yeah we have to reboot the
computer to open up windows just fine
you can run it in Linux of course
through your browser but you'd have to
have flash and I don't have flash out on
my Linux system so how do you export as
a file that I can listen to or yeah take
into my sequence like say I want to take
it into a multitrack editor or something
and add some vocals yeah it's a website
exactly so it's actually really simple
you just go to file so on top you click
file you save your draft I'm going to
call it Henry's sick beats or something
amazing like that Henry Henry's beat so
Henry speed I'll take it awesome mix
because it's like he's a beet farmer
that's not your band name no yeah
totally and he put it today I'm feeling
like you can use my music but you can't
use
commercially and I'll click Save so it's
just going to take a second it's like
yeah Sam we made a draft so now it's
saved in the cloud yeah
so if I wanted to like publish I just
click this button that has now appeared
publish Boop and sound of silence
so pretty much saying I haven't
made a whole song yet there's still gap
on there okay yeah umm biases like okay
alright so it just asks you some final
questions so as you want to let others
use this next to remix um
so it's like yeah sure so it's like I
see publish and then it says takes a few
minutes to render and then at the end of
that process you could say you know what
yeah download so you can save it and
other people on the net you can say do
you want them to download it yeah you
know what's cool about this I'm sorry go
ahead
so Beyonce can use it like anybody oh
yeah absolutely
makes her own sick beat fight yeah Henry
could make beats that Beyonce could use
anything right we'll use the same
Happiny it's it I say this again and
again it's accessibility right so um it
might take a few minutes for to go
server-side so I'm just going to close
that but again there's like they have
like all these singles that are on the
websites like a Creative Commons yeah
yeah so here's my thought just as a
final kind of thought from my
perspective now when I'm producing music
on a computer I have certain resource
requirements if I'm doing these kinds of
mixes I'm going to need a pretty killer
computer yeah now and I got to meet all
those requirements are going to have
inputs on the computer all that kind of
crazy stuff to make music this takes
away that requirement because it's all
cloud-based exactly now I could be
probably doing this from a little
netbook or something if it's not because
it's in your browser yeah we're doing a
little work we're being gone on a server
and that's that's a really interesting
part about it is that again i I'll say
it again as accessibility it takes that
entirety of having to need this honkin
machine yeah so then anyone can do it
now my studio is my laptop so the
hexagon so that's that's an emoticon
there you go Hangul so maybe maybe we've
inspired the next like Beethoven or
someone today
dubstep Beethoven
nice that would be an awesome mix well
there you have it it's a do tool dot-com
thanks Henry
thank you this has been category 5
technology TV and it's been such a
pleasure having you here don't forget to
send your contest ballot if you want to
get a peek into the treasure chest all
you have to do is email contest a
category 5 TV photon we have some
thousand two of you fast our is why we
just goes by denlon I look forward to
Wednesday nights and it goes by like
that and every time it's just so much
fun
teary eye looks over everybody comment
below give us a thumbs up give us a
subscribe on YouTube and we will catch
you next one tonight yeah
you
