you're talking about ransomware and the
the risks of ransomware now that hackers
are selling a tool that will allow
script kiddies to deploy and distribute
their own ransomware to collect upon so
really you have to do preventative
backups and ongoing she hit it right
there backups that is your only surefire
protection against ransomware period if
you haven't done your backups
you're not safe you think you're safe on
Linux you're not you think you're safe
because you've got antivirus you're not
and let me explain that so you've got a
server mm-hmm and it's got file sharing
on it mm-hmm and it's Linux Linux is not
susceptible to ransomware infections so
you are safe right I hope so
I don't think so now oh the way you're
saying but Joel's logo sir comes in with
his laptop hey sit down plugs it in or
goes on the Wi-Fi and starts messing
around and oh there's an email they find
one of those really cool Unicode
phishing scam emails and click on the
link that they think they're going to
epic calm and instead they get a piece
of ransomware that goes into their
computer and the first thing that
ransomware does these days is it goes
out on the network remember now don't
think in terms of a virus because yes
your Linux machine is not going to catch
a virus in the same way that a Windows
machine is your Windows machines that
have antivirus on there like ESET Smart
Security or endpoint security something
that has exploit blocking as opposed to
just antivirus yeah they're probably not
going to get infected but what happens
now okay Joe Blow users sit sitting down
at his computer he gets the infection on
his computer it goes out silently he
doesn't even know what's happening on
the network and it finds that Linux
server the Linux server can't catch the
virus but the Linux server has a
repository of all of your businesses
file
all of your documents all of your kids
photos all of your videos all of your
email everything is stored on that Linux
server and is accessible by the infected
Windows machine so now it starts
encrypting those quietly and Linux
doesn't say anything about it it doesn't
mind because you can encrypt files
that's fine you can edit your files and
it will it's just file storage and it's
happy your nasty unit is now susceptible
because it's accessible by an infected
machine so folks say you know I have
antivirus on my computer how is it
possible that the files on that same
computer that has anti-virus got
encrypted oh what did you realize that
the computer in the back room that you
haven't used since 1996 is running
because it runs this software that
software and it has no anti-malware and
it got the infection and it crawled out
over the over the network and encrypted
any files that have found on the network
including the Linux server including the
files on your Windows machine that has
an anti-virus that's completely
game-changing completely in project
absolutely and once we realize the the
paradigm of how these types of
ransomware malware in fact if you will
or encrypt we realize oh it doesn't
actually need to infect the computer
that it's encrypting no it just has to
be able to access it through the network
and it could be anywhere you give your
Wi-Fi password to somebody or somebody
cracks your Wi-Fi password and they get
an infection you get a router that has
the default username and password and a
bot it compromises it and installs
ransomware on it well what if you're
using public Wi-Fi right because there's
so many places you can go these days for
sure like there's restaurants libraries
public Wi-Fi everywhere right all you
need is one person to sit down with that
program that we said earlier and it's
horrible so then the user says oh well
on my public Wi-Fi I don't have access
to my home server so I'm safe while I'm
there
but remember and this is this is what I
do is try to educate and
okay we got to think this through so
you're on the library Wi-Fi you get that
infection on your laptop mm-hmm you can
it lies dormant until you get home you
get home and it starts looking for stuff
but that's creepy
then you get home and you plug it into
your Wi-Fi there or your Ethernet there
and it says oh there's an Ubuntu
computer over there that has
file-sharing enabled and oh it looks
like that's where you store all of your
family's files and the reason that
you've shared it is because you want
your wife to also have access to it from
her tutor and you to have access from
your laptop and blah blah blah
so let's encrypt those and now all your
files are lost so backing up a little
bit backups are your only surefire
protect now how do you know how
frequently you should be backing up like
what would you say is a safe schedule
for backup your schedule is based on how
much time passes before what I would
lose in a catastrophic failure becomes
unimaginably painful to me right right
so if if I take if I get my camera and I
take pictures once a month and I load
them onto my server hmm then I'm okay to
run a backup once a week so now if I'm a
professional photographer and I take
wedding photos every Saturday yeah and
you know I need to make sure that those
are backed up and in a safe place every
single day mm-hmm you know so that's
that's a different case so you have to
think about you know what would happen
if I lost everything how far back can I
can I lose
right because if I backed up last
Saturday I'll only lose everything that
happened between Saturday and today
right if I'm doing it properly so for
for like regular home use probably
weekly it's good weekly is probably good
make sure you're doing something like R
diff backup so that those backups now
are not touchable by the malware yes
that seem separate yeah and or you know
some people will take an external drive
and actually you know run the backup and
then turn it off or unplug it it is even
a better thing or move it to a safety
deposit box or something to get it off
of the network but you know you can also
if it's Linux for example you could have
it
that the sharing does not allow access
to the backup drive so that even if that
malware and encrypted the files on the
master folder the backup itself can't be
touched but then you need our diff
backup or something so that if your
backup then runs and over writes all the
files on the backup you can still go
back a day right because that's the
other case is oh well my backup just
copies the files that yeah then that's
going to be writing any files that
change who's here so then you lose
everything anyways so tricky business it
is you know hey if you've got any
questions about the security of your
environment please email me you can get
us at live at category-five dot TV it's
a very serious issue in a terrible time
for novice users to try to figure out
you know am i safe are my file safe gosh
I set it back up back up back up that's
your only protection against this kind
of thing in reality we do you back
[Music]
[Applause]
