welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob you
Ferguson welcome to episode number 255
of category 5 technology TV hey John
Knicely in the chat room pointing is
rude that's what he says hey everybody
yeah it's Tuesday August the 7th 2012
crystal wells joining me in the studio
I'm Riley Ferguson hey everyone how are
you oh I'm good I was looking at kind of
the back eat on our website category 5
TV I couldn't believe 10 weeks since we
were here last that's been a while how
did that happen where the last 10 weeks
gone like that's the summer I don't
avoiding you so I've been working well
till now yeah yeah this whole school
thing which got me wrapped up and
everything but two weeks left and i'm
young weeks left serkan she'll be here
every Tuesday oh yeah how fantastic is
that isn't a nice time we can volunteer
you I know it just like that I know
everyone's heard it so now has to happen
it has to happen because what you see on
the Internet is true yep everything
online is true especially if it makes it
to YouTube hi YouTube tonight I want to
we're going to be reaching into that
grab bag of treats my my web developer
toolkit 10 weeks ago we started the
Syria the kind of died off for some
reason because you haven't been back
since then and we're gonna be tonight
we're gonna be looking at image
manipulation in such that we're going to
be improving the the speed of your
website by optimizing the images that
you put on your website Jax so it is a
very very cool tool good knowledge to
have so if you're at all interested in
building your own website stick around
that is going to be good knowledge
anyways and even if you dread the
thought of making your own website it's
gonna be a lot of fun tonight so
and stick around anyways yes and we're
here well I mean that means it's always
fun so second from last week in Studio B
we work on our way to Studio C cool yeah
hard to believe yeah well would you like
to hear what's caught up in you know I
would love to in the chat room probably
would also appreciate that okay then
let's uh let's give her all right so
coming up in the newsroom royal bank of
scotland is paying out 125 million
pounds to its customers on account of a
computer glitch oh I wish I was one of
those you know is that like on an
individual basis come on do the each
covers again hundred twenty-five royal
bank of canada can you make the same
kind of mess up and put a couple bucks
in my account mhmmm I'll be all right be
super helpful mmm windows 8 metro is
going to be renamed due to a trademark
dispute another one valve is work young
stream for Lennox due to windows 8 and
ubuntu was caught being used by the
extreme makeover home edition team who
stick around these stories are coming up
later in there nice I enjoy that show
once in a while extreme makeover home
edition oh let's get a straight makeover
home I'm sorry because don't they have
like a whole bunch of different versions
of the show because i think the extreme
makeover makes me think about like
liposuction little different a little
different you know where they build
houses and stuff okay okay fair enough
but it can be a lot of fun interesting
you went in for tea hearing about that i
wanted to say hello to everybody now
I've been away for a week my first my
first day back literally here are the
boxes of the studio that was packed up
and shipped to halliburton Ontario and
arrived in the studio today unpack reset
up everything in a mad dash it was wild
but I think we pulled it off so but just
wanted to say hello to our new viewers
from halliburton Ontario and that area
of course we actually I got ahold of
this week's Highlander as well now we
were in the echo last week and you'll
see in the text section there you go in
the bottom left there
you see that online tech show airs and
they did a nice little write-up mark
from the paper there I did it right up
and took a photo and there's Eric and I
on the air from Silver Beach
developments and that was really cool
okay thanks mark and thanks to the local
community in haliburton Ontario for
their support of her visit to
halliburton I was looking forward to it
big time but my kids were so excited
because he turned on the radio canoe FM
up they are 109 and they're talking
about category 5 and also the no doubt
the star that's it was to them like you
know my seven-year-old was like that's
daddy and she was like running around
all excited about it and then they talk
about a ten minutes later on a PSA and
as it was all exciting and everything
and it was a lot of fun to have our live
audience there as well and two of the
people that were there Eric and Carol
from a now I say moonshadows moonshadows
is the name of their winery but they
have a store maple moon that that's just
on highway 1 18 5 kilometers west of
halliburton but the reason I bring them
up they're fantastic people for one
thing but I did pop in to moonshadows
the winery that's in the store and I got
you some kind of treat now open that up
oh my goodness never had anything like
this I promise you that there it is
golden maple talk and maple wine maple
wine you can read I'm really excited
really loud well all of it didn't want
like is nestled in haliburton highlands
or do you want noble what line what
about the wine it's actually instead of
grapes they've made it from maple syrup
from nature's springtime gold maple
syrup very Canadian a it brings a sweet
aromas of smoky undertones yeah
exfoliate that's one of my favorites I'd
say my one of my favorite wines very
very nice and they did a great job of
that so there you go thank you that's my
little cottage street to you that's very
sweet mm-hmm I'll let everyone know how
it is blog about it tweet about it that
I'm a good idea cuz I don't have twitter
Oh see that's a problem that's a problem
I will
maybe open a twitter account and then
learn how to teach that would be an
excellent idea and then i'll tweet about
it yeah so again greetings to all of our
new viewers tonight and of course not
just Halliburton and cottage country
here in Canada in Ontario especially but
we've got viewers from all over the
world that are joining us tonight I'm
kind of watching the chat room and I do
see some many many familiar faces I see
some people who are possibly new here
nice to see you let us know if you're
brand new here a couple people who now
I'm trying to see here let's see I means
it has been away for a while and that's
the first time they've been able to
catch the show live again just about a
year so nice to have you back thanks for
joining us tonight let's see new to
linux yeah if i miss anybody I mean just
post us in the chat room category five
dot TV category five on freenode and do
join us in the chat room it's a nice way
to for us to communicate hey Dennis
Kelly new to linux I just want to say
hello welcome to linux welcome to
category 5 look I hope you enjoy both
kind of the idea right red Nova Toby
nice to see you hey everybody Chris
Reich nice to see you Chris rights got a
fun little game that will try to
participate in tonight how's that sound
did I mispronounce that participate yeah
yeah it sounded like as I can see that
does it go ahead Chris participate or
the fun precipitate oh great come on
yeah okay well we've got viewer
questions in a couple moments our mobile
site is m dot cat five dot TV love to
have you try that out give it a try on
your iPhone your iPad your iPod Touch
for the iDevice end of things and then
you've got the android devices are also
supported blackberry works great give it
a go mcat five dot TV on any mobile
device
also want to mention that we would love
to receive your postcards category 5
technology TV p.o.box 2900 nine Barrie
Ontario Canada l4 n7w 7 we prefer to
receive a postcard where you know it's
something of your area or somewhere that
you're visiting perhaps sometimes we
receive them you know when you're when
viewers are on a trip and they send it
from where they are but we really love
to have you right on the postcard and
stamp it and send it as a postcard
that's the best way to send extend we
get the stamped and it's a little bit
more special than you know then old
school yeah that's stamp and everything
really shows that it was sent old-school
style we love it love to receive it and
those are going to be going up on the
website as well okay we gotta take a
quick break I know okay you go ahead did
yes she's like but I need to say did you
know that category five TVs a member of
the tech podcast network and if it's
tech it's here you don't say oh did you
know that I yeah you had no idea and the
International Association of Internet
broadcasters brilliant hmm all right
we'll be right back after this let's
stick around at eco alkalines we believe
you should be able to trust your
batteries not just here but here here
and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here eco alkalines of the
world's first and only certified carbon
neutral battery manufactured to the
highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance the rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the eco
alkalines difference eco alkalines calm
this is category 5 technology TV episode
number 255 and I'm Robbie Ferguson I'm
crystal wells Krista I know you've got
some viewer questions that we want to I
have plenty of your question authority
can send in your questions to Krista
live at category five dot TV that will
get to the co-host desk and and that is
a great way to get your questions in and
again join us in the chat room if you
like to send them in that way as well
absolutely all right our first wonderful
question is coming from invincible
mutant ah actually it looks more like a
comment all right we like commons too he
says just can't help myself to stop
sending you another testimonial that
what a beautiful website well done thank
you ah i find your anti-spam method
honest anti-spam method sorry on the ask
a question page interesting it looks
like a real anti idiot method in fact
yeah the 2+2 enter two plus two because
if you're if you're a machine you if
you're a machine I wouldn't be able to
do it but we do allow idiots on our
website we do once in a while idiots get
to program it to that happens yeah thank
you so much for creating fantastic work
for the community keep it up oh yeah
cheers chris reich making fun of my
emphasis ah hmm process yeah apparently
it's kind of a expected Robbie thing
they do yes it's to be expected alright
here's another question are yes our
first question from Brandon he says on
episode 252 you took a look at the
software to remember my passwords but
what if I want to sign up to new
services and don't have a password yet
is there any way to generate new
password without going to that website
you showed or do I just make one up okay
well I yeah I typically i tend to use
safe passwd com to generate passwords on
the fly really really easy but we were
looking at keep a sex and let's see here
what I'll do brandon i'm just going to
show you how we get go about it and yes
it does generate passwords and not only
does it generate passwords but it
generates extremely strong ones so use
safe password calm if you like to
generate this the password for your
database safe pass WD calm and the
reason I say that is ok you can say easy
to remember generate something that's
you know ten characters would ever go
new password and now you've got one
that's like minute or six see how that
both and it kind of went weird that
happens in chrome minute or six with
such a cool one too but there's rodrique
? five for example so you just kind of
memorize it it's easier than kind of
creating one of those random passwords
like the generally random passwords but
very very hard for somebody to guess or
to brute force because well it's it's
pretty crazy right but it's not
something that you remember if you name
it after your dog or some people will
use you know okay well I've got an acer
monitor so i'll call it acer five is my
pants varies i don't remember three and
then what's funny is you your monitor
dies you replace it with an IBM and they
can't get password so i say that just
because okay this will generate okay so
i've got rodrigue five right so with a
question mark so i could enter that in
and then you're good to go so that's
your password for the database file okay
so now as you create new new passwords
within now let's see here so i'm going
to create one say i'm going to create a
login for category five so let's call
this category five username will just
say krista is what we'll pretend that
it's you doing it hmm
a type really fast you really do you're
amazing okay I'm and you can actually go
login dot category 5 done TV if you
really want to so password let's see
here now there are some pretty cool
tools let's see Jen see that Jen button
over here i'm gonna click on that now
it's going to say whoa what do you want
okay and it's created one automatically
for 164 bits you can increase that by
increasing the length of the password
remember that like look at that I mean
321 bits for your password that's
incredible like nobody's ever going to
guess at that realistically you can set
up pronounceable passwords if you want
to memorize them but here's the thing
because we're generating a password that
is going to be stored electronically
within keep a sex the software that
holds a database in an encrypted
database we can use these crazy long
absurd passwords for the websites that
we subscribe to if you want to set up a
Twitter account for example you use this
you've got a 328 bit password they can
never remember you'll never remember it
but you remember that main password that
you set up for keypad right right and
then that allows you to then retrieve
that password or have it automatically
populate the form that logs you in
that's pretty name yeah cool so back at
this screen now I've generated a
password that's 328 bets where I've told
it to do that ok and now generate and
there's my password is just you know a
stressed out hit OK and ok there we go
so now I've got a password that's ready
for me that is you know that many bits
three hundred twenty some odd bits I can
click on the little I icon there see
that little I that lets me see the
passwords that I can copy a taster yeah
it's crazy so just single click anywhere
in there and hit ctrl a to highlight the
whole thing ctrl-c to copy it and then
you go back to the website that you're
subscribing to and I'm just going to
paste this into G edit just to show you
pacing that in
let's see if I got it in my clipboard
here right click copy I'll do that there
it is so there's my wild password that
you know good luck guessing at that so
now yeah Brandon I've created a password
that is incredibly secure its memorized
only in my software database I'm never
going to remember that password and
generate a new password for every single
website that you go to so if you sign up
for twitter make sure it's a different
password than facebook then your email
then paypal because we talked about this
on a previous show where you know if
somebody hacked let's say somebody
hacked the hotmail server you're using
hotmail and they got your password it
can happen or and then all of a sudden
if it's the same password as your
banking account right now they've got
everything log into your bank account
yeah so it's it's dangerous stuff so
that's where keep a sax and being able
to generate these crazy passwords is a
fantastic thing and then you just do the
same thing for the next one next website
you sign up to you create a new entry
just keep on going boom there you go
next website and just create a new crazy
password oh this is category 5
technology TV and I'm Robbie Ferguson
I'm crystal walls yeah hope that helps
what else you got for me Oh questions I
of course I get hurt let's see this one
is from Phil hey Phil so Phil says hello
Robbie I enjoy watching your show on
several of my devices including that I
oz I oh hey yeah set-top box that you
reviewed a while back I can never get
any of my five tivo SI units to accept
the RSS feed for category 5 TV so I
suggested to tivo that they add your
show to the list of podcasts and I
received an email stating that it would
be done by the end of that day cool nice
true to their word one day later and I
am watching episode 252 with my series 3
tivo on my 42 inch LG TV nice there you
go happy birthday episode how
appropriate very cool stuff I'm speaking
of the iOS the iOS is the the nice
little device that we reviewed previous
to the xios
losses but desire says the one that I
reviewed last week the iOS is by the
same people give us Oh folks I love your
products but the naming it gets really
confusing when I'm trying to explain it
the iOS device dude go on to their
website get the new firmware I've been
running the bed of firmware now I know a
couple of you actually went out and
possibly several of you went out and
bought an iOS device and you know some
people who were even sang during the
review that the interface seemed a
little bit clunky totally functional but
it was a little bit slow at times was a
little bit you know orange very very
orange the new interface is so zippy you
just download the firmware to a flash
drive put it in turn on your iOS and it
automatically updates it's fantastic
okay but gave me some new features and
they're working on some amazing stuff
for the new version so if you've got an
eye of it a go give a try to the the new
firmware I think it's in like
pre-release betta right now it's been
working perfectly for me so that's good
fantasy and thanks for mentioning that
to to tivo as well so it looks like
we're back on the tebow we used to be on
tivo with blip TV and then that got
pulled so tivo viewers that's when
that's when category 5 disappeared and
that's the other thing that's tough when
you're a show like ours because we do
tap into third party services so i would
assume the tivo is now actually
launching our alternate feed which is
the one that we created for people to
get around things like blip TV because
if we go through third parties like blip
and then those third parties get removed
from TV we get removed inadvertently so
once again the alt feed has helped us
out there I supposed to reach much more
viewers keep in mind that and I and this
will lead up to my thanks to many
viewers who have supported us but do
keep in mind that the alt feeds so
watching us on tivo will not help us pay
the bills because you're actually
circumventing our advertising network by
using those feeds so so we encourage
viewers said they use those feeds to
donate and help us with the with the
expenses here and like I say to that to
lead
the you know I wanted to say thank you
to to viewers who have donated us this
week at to us this weekend you know who
you are and and your support is really
what makes the show possible so thank
you very much absolutely mm-hmm he did
actually post a link here too oh yeah
those um so if you wanted to post her
somewhere later that would ya can I post
that i'll post that in the show notes
for episode number 255 so if you're
watching this after the fact go to our
website category 5 TV go to episode
number 255 as part of season five and
you'll be able to click that link to
check out the tivo link that that was
provided the night yeah thanks Phil oh
we have time for one more yeah here's a
question from Dennis hi Robin us I have
switched from a boon to 12 point 0 for 2
X a boon to 12 point 0 for xubuntu
xubuntu sure that's what I meant my
problems road I I can't yeah just
playing into his game plan him my
problem is that I can't get surround
sound working I have nvidia graphics
card with hdmi output i have hooked my
pc up to my AV receiver back when using
windows i had no problem to have the
surround sound working the way it should
it boon to it work just fine now in
xubuntu only the front left and front
right speakers are playing i have set to
5.1 via hdmi in the sound settings in
the OS i really don't know how to search
for an answer since i tried nearly
everything in pulse audio settings or
whichever is standard in xubuntu and oh
honey as in our question maybe a little
figure okay well i think yeah that's
that's a little tricky for me but i
think you're probably gonna want to go
with alsa also mixer for the hdmi stuff
because pulse is not going to be able to
get problem is is that i think pulse is
not going to see how many speakers you
have hooked up so it may just be sending
like a left and right signal in which
case you can edit some files and go
through some settings in order to
configure pulseaudio to like through
configuration files to use 5.1 or 7.1
channels let's see what I can come up
with here
just just threw some quick searching ask
ubuntu com is always an excellent
resource great website for ubuntu users
and of course xubuntu is based on ubuntu
so at the core it's the same system so
you're still good to do some of these
things so first thing i come up with on
ask ubuntu com is this question about
configuring 5.1 audio in 12 point oh
four so sim maybe a similar setup and
similar problem to what you're having
I'm just kind of scrolling through with
with you here and this is one of those
things and I can tell just from the from
this thread you see what I notice is
that you know you've got this guy said
okay well this will fix it this one said
this will fix it here's the you know the
answer that was accepted which is to
connect through spdif which is kind of a
workaround if you ask me and then here's
another one that said oh well this
actually fixed it for me so I think what
happens is that then you get into here's
a problem that for everybody is a little
bit different solution because it's a
different maybe a different same symptom
but a little bit different cause of that
symptom I think probably what you're
going to encounter is that it is just
you know out of the box sending left and
right so it's going to take some manual
configuration to get all six channels
5.1 or 7.1 to to work so i'll send you
that that that page create a quick quick
link for you so what I'll do is cat five
dot TV / HDMI 514 5.1 there you go so
hopefully that thread will give you a
little bit of help I hope that one of
those solutions will help you we're
working here at category 5 i'm working
on something very very cool with a
teamspeak bernot teamspeak what am I
saying teamviewer ah taking me back to
my it i as I'm packing up the studio I'm
coming across Unreal Tournament discs
game of the year edition and I'm
thinking along the 1999 teamspeak an
unreal tournament game plan
thing teamviewer allows us to actually
remote part me remote into viewers
computers and perhaps help you with some
of these issues that's something that
we're working on and on our website cat
five dot TV / ask or if you go to
category 5 TV interact and ask a
question you'll see that there's a
little button that says do you want
Robbie to be able to access your
computer and and maybe in this kind of a
case because this is all part of I
really want to be able to help you with
this stuff it's really tough because it
could be a different problem for
everybody so my suggestions may not work
for you and that's why I'm really kind
of stuck saying okay well here's a
thread here are some people with the
same problem hopefully one of their
answers helps you but hopefully down the
road as well we'll be able to actually
remote into your computer using
teamviewer and and I might be able to be
of more assistance to you the viewers in
that regard so so give that a try
somebody apphia if you want to give it a
go one and will probably be launching
that you know within the next couple
months it's really a season six feature
that we're going to be introducing but
so that to say sorry it can't be yeah
sorry it can't be too much help at this
point with that kind of a problem but
alsa mixer it from terminal is a great
you know go through just double check if
there are any muted channels if you've
got like your s/pdif outputs muted or
hdmi outputs muted give that a go but
otherwise I think maybe that will
hopefully that'll help you a cat5 TV /
HDMI 51 will take you to that ask ubuntu
threat there good hopefully I hope yeah
here's hoping uh we have time for the
second part oh yes okay second part he
says you mentioned an ID three tag
editor for linux to edit all the tags
and folder at once what was its name
again I tried to find the episode where
that was mentioned last week without
success what was its name
what what I can do yeah hmm taking me
back I think it was easy tag but let's
go to our website category 5 TV I'm
gonna show you some really really cool
features about our website here one of
the things that we have that's not quite
as pretty as I want it to be digging
yeah well your graphic designer so you
know what I'm saying well I don't say
things like Purdy though I mean that
will I do because I want Chris Reich to
enjoy himself right yeah so something
that I will cosmetically be working on
but right now it's not a huge priority
so really functionality wise it is there
ok so i'll show you this quick little
thing is it's called search our network
right on the right hand side of our
website and there because you know you
have an idea of what you're searching
for just type in id3 and it's going to
actually go through our entire network
of sites and it's going to do a quick
search and here's where it's you know
it's kind of ugly but it will be
incorporated into the site so you know
instantly it's shown you here's a
question how do i set id3 tags on my
music in linux particularly multiple
songs at once with common information
using easy tag there i was right there
to add id3 tags to your music both
manually and automatically from the file
names so you see just by a simple search
of id3 on our website we were able to
pull up exactly what it is that you're
looking for and then i'm going to click
on that it's going to take me to episode
number 218 featuring the wonderful
crystal wells and there we actually
talked about ez tag just a part way into
the show all right good that's really
handy yeah that's if you want to you
know jump right to it its search dot
category five dot TV or again on our
website category five TV anywhere on the
right hand side on any page you'll see
search our network and you can just type
in your your search there that goes
through our everything from category 5
TV to the newsroom to the forums to the
wiki to YouTube all of that stuff is
included in that search so if if it's
out there and it's done by category 5
you should be able to find it using
search our network so hope that helps
and that is a great program and we don't
need to review it tonight because it's
already day
and I just showed you how to get it and
it would be it'll mess with your mind
too because it's the same presenters
tonight different shirt you'll have no
idea think we did a costume change in
gaming yeah exactly how's my hair and
that one how few good hair looks really
good enough very similar yeah excellent
gonna have a little pity party or
something that's good oh wow okay
Christy you ready Oh as I'm gonna be
alright alright here are the top stories
from the category 5 TV news room royal
bank of scotland rbs has put aside a
hundred twenty five million pounds to
pay compensation to customers affected
by a recent breakdown in his computer
systems accountant or sorry account
holders at rbs and it's natwest and
ulster bank subsidiaries face disruption
for up to two weeks in june after
software upgrade at the bank Oh RBS
release the compensation figure as it
reported a half-year loss of 1.5 billion
pounds compared with 794 million pounds
a year earlier two weeks of no service
at a bank yeah that's a little brutal
are they owned by rim yeah that's a low
blow low blow ooh a potential trademark
dispute has forced Microsoft to drop the
Metro name for windows 8 for Windows 8's
blocky tile-based interface just la nena
well it's not entirely clear it is
believed that the trademark is held by
german retail giant metro AG 0 microsoft
is currently working out what to call
interface and said the new name will be
announced soon me I think they already
hit the nail on the head windows 8
blocky interface that's a good one that
works hmm I can just see the commercials
now too so there was somebody like maybe
Tetris could sue them and say hey you're
that's our blocky that's our blocky
interface you can't use it so switch
back to something that actually is good
Oh port boss I know poor windows they
make bad choices
with games developers like valve and
Blizzard is spread expressing the
concerns about Windows 8 the ones
unshakeable grasp of Direct X is
starting to look a little weak valve in
particular has starter has sorry started
looking seriously at Linux as a gaming
platform which means linic which means
focusing on polishing out the OpenGL
performance of its source graphics
engine having reading problems tonight
it now has a whole team working on
getting both source and Street and both
source and steam running nicely with
Ubuntu they've been blogging and in
their latest update they've outlined
some of the advancements they've made
with performance while working closely
with NVIDIA who has something to prove
after Linux creator lip lennis Linus
Torvalds publicly dissed its attitude to
Linux the team has managed to polish up
its engine so that left 4 dead 2
actually runs faster in Linux than it
does in Windows esteem becomes the Linux
friendly game just distribution system
we may well see Linux becoming a key
gaming platform by the big name studios
that's huge that's great and it's kind
of the moment that we've all been
waiting for with valve bringing steam to
Linux that's a big deal that's like an
amazing distribution mechanism for
gaming so I've always thought that Linux
was great for games Wolfenstein a castle
wolfenstein and stuff and quake games
and everything that's that's out there
Unreal Tournament ran great on Linux
better than on Windows there you go
thanks Andrew Jameson for that story
house k yeah extreme makeover home
edition the television series centered
around a family that after being
confronted with unfortunate life
situations receives a completely rebuilt
house usually while the family members
are on vacations as seen in this picture
the extreme home team is using a boot on
their desktop with unity play see you
boo to publicly and yet another just
conquered area very cool ooh nice hairdo
get the full stores at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category 5 TV news room is
research by roy w national country
by our wonderful community of viewers if
you have a new story you think is worthy
of on-air mentioned send us an email to
newsroom at category 5 feet TV from the
category 5 TV news room I am Chris DeVos
Thank You Christa whoo and done so you
know there's a rule around here that any
time you mispronounce something you just
give it to chris oh ok so let them take
them yeah just let them take it in the
chat room no problem yeah tonight's show
is brought to you in part by quarter e
electric contracting inc you can find
out more about them at quarter electric
com there the official electrical
company of category five technology TV
and a great bunch of guys as well so
check them out quarter electric com also
netflix get your free one month trial of
netflix at cap five dot TV / netflix and
one of the things that somebody a lot of
people have been saying to me won't
can't you get a free free account
anyways just by going to their website
yes you can yes you may but if you go to
cap five TV / netflix that's the same
thing you get a one month free trial of
netflix no obligation and cancel before
the end of the month there's no charge
or you keep going and it's like seven
eight bucks a month canadian so but it
helps category five at the same time
when you do it through us cat5 TV /
netflix and you won't want to cancel
anyways i personally had all flex its
fantabulous i love it yeah yeah I find
myself Harley watching like a regular TV
anyone can't stand commercials anymore
commercials down with commercials that's
the thing netflix has none it's like
it's like popping in the DVD it's like
buying the you know the season discs of
all your favorite shows and movies
galore so I've it's right a lot of
classic stuff as well that I didn't know
about so we're still in we just started
season 2 of sliders oh it's been a lot
of fun you should catch up to us mmm
it's probably easy to do watching TV and
working at the same time ah Krista okay
well I've mentioned that we want to take
a look at some free stuff the ability to
do some image manipulation we're going
to start with quick manipulation and
then work our way into making our
website
run faster by optimizing the images that
we're going to be using they're really
good information and hey John and we're
going to we're going to also show you
how to do some editing using GIMP as
well GNU image manipulation program it's
freely available gimp.org crystal loves
it when I talk about the GIMP mm-hmm
she's a photoshop i will admit it it's
not it's impressive it is yes thank you
it can be a little daunting when you
look at their website and its kind of
they've made it look like a blog so
forget about all that stuff and skip
over it and go all the way down to the
bottom and you'll see downloads unix or
linux windows mac OS 10 so you've got
access to installing this on your
computer absolutely free so it doesn't
matter what platform you're using here
is a photoshop alternative you've heard
of photoshop here's a free one that you
can get there's download pardon me a
download button right up at the top as
well there you go which Ottoman seems to
automatically detect what operating
system you're doing so freely available
Christa herself said that it is what was
the word exceptional did I say
exceptional you know like I don't thank
I said it that's pretty awesome it is
pretty awesome I think I kind of cut off
the sentence and you finish dr. Lee yeah
I do that gimp 2.8 is really pushing the
envelope bringing gimp more toward a
commercial-style platform it has a
single window mode as well which if
you're migrating from Photoshop or
you've used Photoshop and makes it a lot
easier for you to make that transition
so tonight I'm actually i'm not using
2.8 I've just got two point six on this
system because I haven't upgraded just
yet I'm on Zorn OS and I'll just load up
gimp 2.6 here there we go so I've got
multi window mode there we are move that
guy over to that screen there we go so
one of the questions that I've received
or that people you know I talked to
people behind the scenes and and talked
about you know how we do some of the
things that we do here category 5 one
person actually came into the studio and
saw the brick wall behind me and said oh
you you don't have a weird at the time
yeah well yeah
the cat where's the sign because if you
go to our website category 5 TV let's
bring it up you'll see that most of the
time it's just like box right now there
you go man you see that it looks like
category 5 is kind of painted on the
wall you know there it is there quite
often that you know sometimes it looks
even more realistic than others but we
always have our logo are wonderful logo
i should say behind our heads and the
thing is it's not actually there it's
that Robbie where's this category five
dot TV hat it's an amazing hat I love
wearing it around town it's just like a
halo and it just like look at me I'm
Robbie Ferguson and that's how it's done
ya know so we actually just do a quick
little photo manipulation after the show
and it's seriously somebody said to me
well you don't have a sign behind your
heads they thought it was actually on
the brick wall so then I said you
haven't actually watched an episode have
you I'm just you would have noticed ha
ha ha ha ha ok so I'm gonna grab a real
quick picture from our repository of
stuff that we have here let's see all
right actually it's all many folders my
goodness but they're all so well
organized yes well I'll grab I don't
know any screen grab of any episode
comple already saved over all of them ok
let's go back here we'll use a full res
image
I'd prefer to use one that greatly
embarrasses Krista oh of course those
aren't hard to come by I am really
embarrassed by that photo you should use
that one yeah want to find a good one
here bear with me folks I'm just
bringing up random photos from the show
here you know doesn't have to be perfect
okay well it'd be nice if it wasn't ok
well I can fit let's play I can use one
with somebody else for sure there's Eric
look at all smiles why don't we use that
one because it actually shows the eye
off which we were terrified that's the
device that we were talking about a
little bit earlier so if I right click
on that open with GIMP image
manipulation program there it is okay so
then all i need is the logo which is
stored on our server there we go
so this is a just a ping file I guess
that you had sent us when he created the
logo so that we had something to work
with that had a transparent layer so I'm
just going to copy that logo into my
clipboard actually I'll auto crop just
to show you that cool little feature
image auto crop image is part of GIMP
and it actually sucks everything in so
that you don't have to try to figure out
where the edges of the image are so
looking at my image here what I would
normally do is I would okay well I'd say
that's 3,000 72 pixels wide my logo
right now is 4,000 something so I want
it to be about I don't know two-thirds
of the canvas size somewhere around
there why don't I just say a thousand
pixels width on this so I've shrunk the
logo copied to my clipboard pasted in
and create a new layer to make it so
that it's manipulatable separate from
that layer might have made it bigger
than that but doesn't really matter for
this sake of the demonstration so now
with with the GIMP what I'll do is zoom
right in there with my plus key on the
keyboard and then turn off that layer so
now I can still see the outline of where
that layer is going to be and I simply
use the marquee tool up at the top left
here see that free select they call it
and I'm just going to click around my
head just like that and it does a really
excellent job and here crystal you're
going to see this you can say well you
can do that in Photoshop no problem and
I've shown this before but one of the
things I love about this is if I
accidentally go like that somebody bumps
my hand or whatever Photoshop compare
when that happens because you generally
have to go back and redo what you've
done here as you point to things that
actually creates the point again you can
see if I go over here now I can move any
of these points so that is a really
really nice feature of GNU image
manipulation program lets me get in nice
and tight to the scalp there you go
better than a Mach 3
alright so now I've got that highlighted
I can turn back on that layer select
inverse so now what's actually happened
is everything but my head is selected
okay and now i'm going to right click on
the layer and go add layer mask from
selection and then it's actually brought
my head forward in the picture so now
that's what it looks like okay so now
just playing around with you know
opacities and you can try for example
multiply it you could try screening at
you can just go through just by using
your arrow keys so usually what I'll do
is I'll just click on the layer style
and then press my down arrow just like
that until I find one that because it's
it differs depending on the lighting but
we'll find one that really looks quite
nice I'd say grain merge looks pretty
good bring down the opacity just a
little bit and then there you go so
we've got this image there okay so now
if I were to take that photo let's say
that this is going to go on my website
so I'm going to crop it I'm going to
file save as let's throw it on my
desktop we're going to call this I'll
just call it test jpg export as JPEG
will save it at ninety percent quality
just to see how big that is and there it
is that's 1.1 megabytes so that's more
than 0 because I've still got this at
2648 by 1696 so keep in mind and what's
one of the rules of web images let's
save to size the size of the image right
because if you've got a 2600 pixel image
great for print but if you put that on a
website it either you're gonna have to
shrink it down bye-bye browser basically
by specifying the width and height of
the image but then it is still a huge
image and then you've got a you know the
browser is shrinking it down just fine
usually lossy like you're going to lose
a lot of quality but
it can't be done that way the better way
to do it though is to do that in your
image manipulation program so i would
say okay let's say I want this to be 640
pixels wide and 410 pixels high so i'm
actually resizing the image first so
that this is the actual image size so
now if i save that again let's see what
my file sizes 90.1 kilobytes there we go
so looks pretty good there's the image
that I'm going to be using but it's 90.1
kilobytes so it is a fairly substantial
amount to add to your website because
let's say somebody is connecting with a
you know light high-speed service they
have to basically download everything
that's on your website that is going to
be displayed on that page first and
foremost and then it will display in
their browser or we'll do it kind of in
a gradual way so if you have you know 90
k is not a huge big deal but if you have
15 images all of a sudden you know it's
pretty substantial as far as the
download size of that website so one of
the things as a web developer that that
we must do is tap into compression
technologies and ways to make things
smaller and faster so I'm going to go to
cap 5 TV / web dev and we're going to
use a cool little online tool from my
toolbox scroll down a little ways and
you'll see make things faster get a
couple of things here the first one is
online image optimizer that's what we're
going to use tonight and the second one
of course is a yui compressor that you
can use online that takes javascript and
CSS and minna faiz it so that it's a lot
faster as well again making things
smaller going to click on this it takes
us to dynamic drive very cool little
system here all we have to do is just
choose our file go to our desktop grab
that 90.1 k file and click on optimize
and what it's actually going to do is
it's going to show me there's my
original image and it's 90.1 kilobytes
scroll down a little bit more there is
one that is at 90 okay that's not giving
me any savings what I'm actually doing
here is comparing quality visually so
can you tell the difference between that
one and that one
no I can't can I tell the difference
between that one and that one no I can't
what you'll see is that over here here's
quality it's actually 66.2 kilobytes for
that one or the next one which I still
can't tell the difference in quality is
50.2 kilobytes so then keep going until
you find one that actually looks like it
is compressed but and then you're going
to start seeing blocky artifacts you can
see my teeth there are starting to get a
little bit of a blockiness right do you
see that too so I would scroll up a
little bit to this one and say okay well
this one doesn't have any block y
artifacts it looks pretty good and it's
only 38 k so I'm actually cutting down
the image size by 57% so now what I can
do is I can save that image pop it back
on my desktop and save it and now that's
going to actually be the image that I
put on my website so here's my original
90.1 k alright and now bring up the next
one at 38 k there it is so 91 k it's
actually there 30k there's big one small
one can you tell the difference you
can't a bit but I mean it's for Harry
what you're gonna notice yeah yeah so
that's one of the tricks that we use
here category 5 is to compress images in
that method and that's a you know good
resource for for you to get started
anyways so its cat5 TV / web dev cool
stuff there lots of other tips and
tricks and cool really cool it's cool
are you interested in this kind of thing
what me yeah ha web stuff yeah not at
all not at all you like the design work
I actually really web stuff too so these
are cool know if you can see that
there's our new business card that
Krista did up for us how cool is that
cool air in person yeah thanks bunny it
is way cooler in person on your screen
it's not nearly as cool the textile
nature of tags tactile tactile
so where does like right yeah yep any
questions at this point uh me personally
no I wonder if in the chat room hey John
rev d Jenkins this is category 5
technology TV and you'll find our
website at triple w category 5 TV also
we are on Twitter you'll see down below
Krista their category 5 TV on Twitter
please follow us and of course I've got
my own personal Twitter as well that you
can find through that oh cool any
questions that you found um nothing
actually about this but garbey wants to
know how the end of your vacation was
how the end of my vacation was it's
tough because you know we actually
wrapped up a little bit ahead of time
usually we'd stay a little bit longer
but this year because we've got the move
coming up and literally like we take
possession of the new place Monday
mm-hmm so that means next Tuesday is
going to be our last show in this studio
and we are actually item you can look
around the viewers can't really see
maybe you on backstage pass you can see
a little bit but we're a little bit make
shifted right now because everything is
you know is literally being packed or
packed or gone or transported or
whatever we're really working hard to to
get that done so so I actually came home
early so that we could get some packing
done and and all that kind of stuff so
but it's all necessary right but the
vacation was great it was nice to get
away and back to work tomorrow oh the
sucker yeah yeah looking forward to it
in a way but and it's nice that I've got
a three-day workweek also it's super
shorts like really good at the first is
horribly no just first day I'm really
expecting a lot of email and you know
all that great stuff l train through
yeah I mean I'm on a Monday typically I
spend way more time than I want going
just sifting through email and sorting
through email and responding to people
and you know summer are questions that
you know really take some considerations
to answer and so after being away for
just a little more than a week it's yes
going to be
quite an adventure for sure yeah what's
that garbe how about MySQL yeah so yeah
no questions in the chat room any
questions for us we've got a few minutes
left here on the show and of course if
you're new here you can join our website
category 5 TV also send in your
questions live at category 5 TV love to
get them rev d jenkins is wondering if
you have backed up your neck um yes I
actually do on a regular basis yeah and
what's your method of um actually
everything's on my external um but then
I also have for my working files i also
have backed up onto dvds so i have
double backup just in case so you're
backing so it when you say it's on your
external is it is that the only copy
that plus my pleasure dvds yes okay that
bad how big is the hard drive in your
mac like do you have room that you could
store some of the stuff on the actual
hard drive and then I do the external
idea cops keep it some of the stuff but
the thing is I when I have to get my
back I got the 256 solid state so
there's a return of working room so when
I get all my photoshop files and
everything going I kind of start to you
know that's right slow down a little bit
so the the problem with that is that to
me anyways is that it's a lot of work to
backup to DVD yeah man you can miss
stuff very very easily DVDs good because
if the reason that your computer hard
drive were to crash was an
electromagnetic pulse then DVDs are not
going to be as susceptible to that as as
like your hard drive right whether or
not that you know that would be like
solar flares for example which can
happen but yeah that's a lot of work so
when was the last time you backed up
your to DVD ah probably about six months
ago yeah so six months of data would be
lost if you lost that hard drive that's
I'm like category of fire them I what I
would do I'd probably get into a
situation where you got two hard drives
external and mirror them like but not in
a raid but you have a second one that's
the same or bigger or whatever and just
make a habit of once a week copy
everything from one drive to the next
and just like do it that way smart just
to be easy well then you've got a backup
that's a backup of a backup because but
yeah I should be doing more on DVDs DVDs
will degrade though to overtime huh so
plus when they're not used anymore ya
know that's gonna happen that's the
thing to like how many people backed up
two floppy disk or zip drive have a
whole bag of sloppiness I won't float
throw away cuz i have no idea what's on
them i finally I finally took that step
the big box of floppies took it to the
dump and I felt a certain victory and
turning it upside down and dumping it
and shaking out all those disks oh man i
know but i have no idea what was on them
and like i know that you know it's
nothing that there's been listed for how
well at this point you know here we are
how many years later it's not gonna be
anything that's really gonna harm me you
know it's like like online banking then
you know where are my passwords the same
as they were when i had floppy disks may
it be oh we use them as coasters I
kimoto says take them apart and make
frisbees how cool is that you know I
like 20 years that's gonna be the cool
retro thing to do are you using a
pogoplug I am yeah yep because there's
another idea suggested in the chat room
by good guy is for example you get a
pogoplug at at a family member's house
or something and you could be backing up
to your pogoplug and then have it
synchronized to your family members day
and then anything I how does you
computer at your place you've got it two
places at once right so that's a good
idea that could be a good idea a little
bit slow some for that first backup but
what I did is I brought the one that was
going to be off-site actually brought it
home and did the back up here I turned
off encryption on the pogoplug so that
it would not go out through the web
would only work internally so that be
faster did my first backup so it was
huge and it was just over the land
because I had turned off encryption and
then turn back on encryption took the
hard drive and put it on another
pogoplug off-site and that
synchronization process still happens
with our sink so that's cool it's a good
idea to good rule of thumb though is if
you have your hard drive crash where is
there another copy and in your case if
it's six months old yeah that could be
really bad when you're just doing school
especially we saw where it's uh yeah you
can't get it back if it dies you'd like
you're done yeah yeah I'm good
disadvantages are you actually you've
got some projects do yep so what would
happen if that electromagnetic I
wouldn't happen I would cry hmm point in
case yes okay good question i am I
getting through I got it thanks for the
question good guy rev do you feel
horrible now I'm gonna rush home and so
do my project I'm gonna feel really
backing up you know what whenever and
I'm I'm silly this way well one of the
things that I wanted to mention tonight
I as a bit of a follow-up we reviewed
this couple weeks ago and I took this to
the cottage with me it was fantastic but
one of the things is for 12 bucks i was
able to buy a 16 gigabyte SD card
there's no blacks 12 bucks that's so
cheap these days right so what i had
done is my camera my digital camera uses
SD cards so I every when we took
pictures at the end of every day I put
the card into the laptop and I made a
copy onto this no big deal all right
it's just another SD card so I'm that
particular about my backups that even
when I'm at the cottage when we did the
show Tuesday night I had a copy on the
server that we had brought with us and
packed up and taken to silver beach then
I made a copy onto the laptop just in
case something happened to the server
and then plugged in an SD card and put a
copy on the SD card so I have three
copies immediately following the show
that's how I think that's a good method
methodology to have and a good like I
mean it sounds crazy but it's good
because I could never really lose
anything right so as you're working on
your projects you know
that I've had it where I have access to
know no way whatsoever to back up stuff
so I email it to myself well and then at
least it's on the server it's somewhere
and if I had a crash I still have a copy
so what you're saying is I'm not doing
enough know if you I let's look at it
this way if you had a fire and not just
you if anyone if you at home if you had
a fire in your house or your place of
business or whatever your you keep your
computer how long would it take you to
be back up and running with everything
that you have the day before the fire so
to me that means okay do I have copies
of all my stuff everything family photos
videos documents if you're in school
your projects all that stuff work stuff
client data do you have that securely
saved somewhere on a regular basis that
it's up to date so for me I have all
that and I'm very particular about that
but you need to think about it that way
what happens if you had a fire right
where's your stuff mm-hmm smart that's
made to think about well yeah think
about that I I have to say it like comes
on so many occasions because it's gonna
you know what's gonna happen when's your
hard drive gonna crash you've got an
external hard drive wins the dog gonna
pull it off the table right like
seriously it happens so get in here I
get you back up yeah fix this we got to
fix this hope everybody's had a great
week and looking forward to seeing you
again next Tuesday our last episode here
at the studio in this place it's kind of
sad it is a little bit but at the same
time it's it's really exciting the new
interim studio is going to be a you know
a bit of a step and it's going to
probably look the same to the viewers
but and then we're going to be building
the the new kind of permanent home of
category 5 which I'm very excited about
but have no idea how long that's going
to take we've never done anything like
this before so and we've got a
contractor who says yes it can be done
but has not given us a quote so I'm
scared funny though we'll see what
happens yeah
all right everybody have a great week
Krista thanks for being here yeah it's
good to be back yeah but I always have
fun gonna have fun with that that's nice
wine of course absolutely yeah we'll see
you again soon yes school's over ya
later you seem to week two weeks so
we'll see you very soon yes all right
take care everybody have a wonderful
week
