hey man Z says Windows is really is
really superior to desktop Linux Linux
is full of bugs okay
Linux is free so payment Z says that
Windows is so much better because Linux
is full of bugs now hey man get paid
this from someone who apparently has
been living under a rock during the
month of October 2018 remember that huh
okay so let's think back to Windows
Update 1809 what happened when 1809 came
out it deleted people's files
so remember Microsoft Windows now
updates itself and you can't stop it so
it literally just updates itself and you
come back and all of a sudden it's oh
look my computer's updated today your
server went down because of it right
people's files were deleted and then
same month one week later Microsoft
fixed this bug and re-released the patch
which three days after they released it
they realized it was deleting files and
so they pulled it they re-released it
with a fixed version and HP computer
users got a blue screen of death so I
have an HP computer and and now all of a
sudden I get to work and my computer's
just sitting there with a wdf violation
well what the heck does that mean right
this is Windows I worked yesterday I had
all my stuff open now I've got a wdf
violation so it turns out Microsoft's
new update caused a conflict of some
sort a crash with the HP keyboard
drivers right what it's crazy actually
back it up a little bit so the I'm just
saying Peyman see because you said
Windows is not buggy and Linux is so
let's back it up a little bit same thing
let's look at that HP driver how did
that HP driver get in that HP driver
came in previously in a Windows Update
the very HP keyboard driver that is now
causing HP computers to blue screen of
death on boot which means they cannot
turn on their computers just a blue
screen I'm just just saying right what I
love is every news feed so I get my like
Google News feed in the morning and like
almost every page and my articles is
like how to undo the things that your
window update has done like it's all
like see but that can be dangerous you
got to be able to trust that the updates
are safe but we're losing trust and
Microsoft exactly people have lost their
audio for this update that gets crazy
the things about having your files
delete it okay so now let's look at the
Linux side of things years ago years ago
it happened a Linux update broke a bunch
of people's boot loaders there was a
problem in the grub boot loader and it
broke the ability to boot the computer
it was fairly easy to fix but you had to
have another computer to be able to get
online and find the fix and get up and
running right okay so that was a problem
Linux has a different approach to
Microsoft in that it's open source what
that means is it's a community based
thing
so if Sasha and I could represent Linux
for just a moment so you and I are the
Linux development team okay so I have
shown up and I've said okay I'm gonna
add this update to Linux today okay and
then Sasha comes in and she notices that
what I'm about to do is gonna break
something what does she do I say Oh
Robbie that's gonna break something
uh-huh and oh yeah you're right I'm
gonna fix that
before we push out so now think about
Linux as a thousand plus people doing
exactly that
so when an update is about to occur it
first goes through this process of over
a thousand people in the community these
are not people who work for a particular
company these are thousands of people
who are looking at it and saying oh that
could actually cause a problem
it happened where a one programmer tried
to inject some malware into Linux and
the the developers said oh someone's
trying to inject malware they remove
that they decommitted it on github and
removed it before it went out to
computer
so it's a whole different approach but I
think if I was to look at Windows versus
Linux with that perspective that was
presented to us in this comment right I
would have to give it to Linux
especially here in October 2018 it has
its flaws everything does Windows does
to Linux you may have trouble running
certain things Windows I similarly have
trouble running certain things so it's
really you know what's that thank you
thank you for your comment appreciate it
very much
okay Charles seal ah here's a good one a
pro Linux us says I've been using Linux
Mint 19 for several weeks now and I have
never been happier with an operating
system I've been developing for Linux
servers for years and I've been doing so
on a Linux laptop using Red Hat and the
KDE desktop but I was never quite happy
enough with it to make it my primary
computer so I stuck with the Mac oh
here's another end of the spectrum right
here recently though I bought a little
meerkat from system76 as a computer
manufacturing company removed the Ubuntu
with the gnome desktop distribution that
came with it which I really didn't like
and I loaded Mint 19 I was blown away I
can do all the fun stuff and all the
serious stuff on one computer including
all my web and database development
graphics video editing you name it I
think it's time to repurpose my Mac that
comes to us from Charles seal now I've
yet to find a good video editor or one
that meets my needs on Linux right and
so I'll give you know Linux fantastic I
use it for all my development it's the
best ya development hands-down I
mentioned my vertical monitor that's
running Linux and I've got atom up on
the screen 24/7 and GIMP 2.10 up on the
screen we running
the background are in the foreground and
that's where I do all of my all my
coding I like my web development all of
my software development - everything the
one thing that I have not found a happy
place within Linux it's the video
editing but that's okay I switch back
and forth between Linux and windows here
and there as I need to because each has
this place
[Music]
[Applause]
