hi everyone and welcome to new every day
my name is Kari and my name is Jen and
on stay show we're in part four oh wow I
didn't see that coming so stay tuned
means we'll be right back
[Music]
turn
hello new everyday viewers we're so glad
that you've tuned in we are in part four
of our series looking through the book
of Acts and so far Jen we've had salt
yes all angry going to persecute some
Christians Jesus shows up on the road
Damascus experience he's blinded he's
blind for three days God shows up to
Ananias in a vision Ananias says yes to
the Lord and that she will go to Saul
he laid hands on him he prayed for him
Saul received the Holy Spirit and his
eyes were opened so that's where we
ended off
that's where running up off and we kept
saying wow I didn't see that happening
or I didn't see that Tony ways I didn't
see that I mean I didn't see that coming
and so often that is what the Christian
journey is all about it's not just like
okay accepted Jesus and Nath's is going
to be boring until I die
well no can't have no more fun can't
have any fun at all we're just going to
sit here and follow a bunch of rules and
it's just boring and as I read this
passage like serving the Lord is so not
boring so not boring you never know
honestly you never know what's going to
happen and every morning and I believe
I've said this before I pray Lord bring
to me the people you want me to interact
with kind of take away all distractions
and protect me from the e1 and it's so
cool because I had some just amazing
conversations today people I didn't even
know we're going to show up or I knew
they were going to come by I didn't know
that's what we were going to talk about
yeah and it was just like wow God Wow
God while God yeah I didn't see that
coming yeah and so I just want to
encourage you today that you maybe
you're feeling like you're in a bit of a
slump surrender the swamp to Jesus and
geologies I'm just feeling like I'm in a
swamp and I know the Christian life is
so much more would you help me just to
hold on to you yeah and so I had a I had
someone encouraged me to pray a
different way in the morning and I gotta
admit the times when I've like forgotten
to pray this way I felt slumpy really
and slumpy in the sense
my eyes were turned in to me how am I
feeling
am i feeling close to God am I feeling
spiritual what do i what do I want and
not overtly those sentences in my mind
yeah but looking back that's how my
train of thought would start to go
throughout the day like in assessing the
situations instead of having this
mindset that I'm here for the purpose of
God to interact with them and to show
them and to share with them the love of
Christ and so they encouraged me to pray
like in the mornings like you said God I
believe that you have rescued me that
you have given me your Holy Spirit that
you've equipped me with the love and the
kindness of Jesus to show that to people
in amazing ways today so I trust you God
to lead me and guide me because I
believe you're going before me and and
praying that way has changed my way of
thinking throughout the day and
sometimes I just go stop and remind
myself that right and I'm not going to
lie oftentimes the point when I stop and
kind of have that check-in moment is in
like the public bathroom but when I go
in the stall and I close the door and
just for a minute
I'm alone because I live in a very busy
world right and it's that more where I
can be like God thank you
I'm doing here for me mm-hmm this crazy
day is not about the crazy day this is
about you God and you've made me and you
love me and I'm here for you and you're
awesome and I'm here to love people yes
and I don't know why I share that but I
did so we can get back to the story so
here we are we're going to jump in to
chapter 9 reading from 19 verse 19 be to
the end of verse 31 here we don't want
to sure read that for us okay
Saul stayed with the believers in
Damascus for a few days and immediately
he began preaching about Jesus in the
synagogue saying he is indeed the Son of
God all who heard him were amazed isn't
this the same man who caused such
devastation and
Jesus's followers in Jerusalem they
asked and didn't he come here to arrest
them and take them and change to the
leading priests Saul's preaching became
more and more powerful and the Jews in
Damascus couldn't refute his proofs that
Jesus was indeed the Messiah after a
while some of the Jews plotted together
to kill him they were watching for him
day and night at the city gate so they
could murder him but Saul was told about
their plot so during the night some of
the other believers lowered him in a
large basket through an opening in the
city wall when Saul arrived in Jerusalem
he tried to meet with other believers
but they were all afraid of him they did
not believe he had truly become a
believer oh boy then Barnabas brought
him to the Apostles and told them how
Saul had seen the Lord on the way to
Damascus and how the Lord had spoken to
Paul he also told them that Saul had
preached boldly in the name of Jesus in
Damascus so Saul stayed with the
Apostles and went all around Jerusalem
with them preaching boldly in the name
of the Lord he debated with some Greek
speaking Jews but they tried to murder
him when the believers heard about this
they took him down to Caesarea and sent
him away to Tarsus his hometown the
church Ben had peace throughout the
throughout Judea Galilee and Samaria and
it became stronger as the believers
lived in the fierce in the fear of the
Lord and with the encouragement of the
Holy Spirit it also grew in numbers I
didn't see that coming so which part of
that little blurb like stood out to you
the most I'm just kidding well part of
me wants to say how did he get up and
speak boldly about Jesus Holy Spirit man
well I know that what does it look like
I mean but yeah and what even motivated
him and I know what I know the answer
the whole Revere it I know the answer
but but hey like what did that actually
look like yeah like how did he go from a
Christian persecutor to Christian
supporter
like skills fell off you late and and
that's where it really is the work of
the Holy Spirit where we just sorta go I
didn't even know I had that inside of me
but he was he will willfully surrendered
his life to Jesus and as result being
filled with the Holy Spirit the stuff
came out yeah and it just I guess it
mine bottles me out wee bit or bottled
my mind the fact that he at once
it says wow once he began to preach in
the synagogues and and I was like okay I
have to have all my ducks in a row so
I'm going to start preaching to myself
and I have to prepare my sermon tomorrow
here it comes ready stuff here it is it
says at once he just got up and started
preaching about Jesus and all who heard
him were astonished enough isn't this
you know the guy was wreaking havoc and
and it goes on that he says yet saw grew
more and more powerful and baffle the
Jews living in Damascus by proving that
Jesus is the Christ and how did he prove
him yes was it
it must have been with the Scriptures
because if he was preaching to the Jews
yes they would know the Old Testament
and he could use that like his knowledge
at being a Pharisee to show that Jesus
was in fact in the Old Testament hidden
and then he wrote the New Testament of
Jesus being revealed yeah and it's just
so I guess so pardon me are you
encouraged by it yes and humbled and
thinking why do I always feel but I have
to have all the dot dots now before I
get them speak and what's interesting is
last Sunday I I didn't even know how
it's going to end I did no husband I own
a harvest and so I had like three
different options and I said we could
end this way we could end this way and
or we could end this way so I sat down
with our our video guy and I said okay
here we go
I don't really know how I'm going to end
so just work with me and he's like no
problem because he it's been working
with me for a while now and I said
because I honestly don't know how this
is going to end so we're just going to
trust God to make it work and it totally
worked it was like thank you God and I
guess this encourages make some thinking
it says Saul
at once got up and spoke boldly if the
Holy Spirit is alive in us and he's
given us a message to give then we have
to believe that he will help us to speak
boldly he's not been given a spirit of
fear but of power of love and a sound
mind yeah
so those things really that in
particular when wow I could and it might
not be why didn't it coming or why I've
never thought about that before and
often that's what happens when you read
scriptures like wow I've never thought
of as I've never thought about that
before I had a friend I had my Bible in
my car and a friend came in and he said
Oh like cuz I your Bible I was like yeah
he's like oh it looks like you've read
it a lot and I said you know what this
is the one book that you can read every
day of your life and it is like new yes
and it is this it's and and for me what
stood out Jen was that here he came he
was coming into the city originally
hoity-toity I don't want to say 2020
anyways he was authority to be execute
and evil right so with full of power and
then he'd being lowered in a basket like
a criminal like what a dichotomy of
experience is that he was you know at
the height of his career career or the
Pharisee I guess if I can say it that
way with my limited knowledge of that
and then to be treated like a criminal
because they were trying to murder him
Lord threw in a basket like that's very
humbling and yet he seemed all the more
bold to share I know
and so when has persecution or hard time
actually encouraged you to share your
faith so we'll be back right after we
finish Jeff Weston Jemma you're building
a brand-new beautiful website
what are you alright you're terrible
actor what this we're acting comes into
play I don't know where are they you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website it's sure how much hard
drive space you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cap five dot
TV slash dream host for just five
dollars and a bit of change per month
you are going to get unlimited web site
hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roof of your own
calm guys to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat 5 GB flash dream
hosts still competitive papers on it
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're going to
find five dollars and change per month
go to cap five dot TV slash DreamHost
hey everyone welcome back to new every
day
we just want to take a minute say thank
you to our partners and if you go on to
our website the free day TV such as jen
has here and you go through the whole
thing up there and you can go support us
and there's a variety of ways of
supporting if you can become a patron on
patreon you show the people you can shop
I know but it's not some phone you can
shop with our partners we can shop in
our online store you can donate to our
tip jar or you could advertise so if you
have a business that you would like to
advertise with us try that out
so the way I support us is I often will
go to shop with our partners then stead
of that and up comes our affiliate
partners so there's Amazon and you can
be anywhere in the world
audible eBay gearbest
think geek ah so anymore
oh yeah so many I know isn't it just
keep go
and how I support us is to donate
through patreon care you need this show
me I can't see what ChIP chip below
never lose your stuff at one we've just
had a conversation now she has dragged
everybody yes
hey thanks for partnering with us you
may have just revolutionized something
so I watched Mary oh my god clear braces
you can take them in and out and I lost
them and I really need to find them so
maybe that would be a wise investment
but I also support our show through
patreon so if you go on our web page you
can find that patreon is a way of
supporting us so every time a show is
aired it automatically builds my account
for a certain amount of money so that
I'm sponsoring the show monthly
especially yes anyways we're very
grateful very great in you this show and
we're talking about Saul has now been
converted crazy and he's gone to
Jerusalem and here's what stood out to
me again I asked you kind of what stood
out to you and here's what stood out to
me was that when Saul arrived in
Jerusalem he tried to meet with the
believers but they were all scared
I know so these are people who they
believed interested in God but I guess
there hadn't been a convert as radical
as Saul yet I know right well here he's
been persecuting them and now he's like
and was he like infiltrating well he was
the guy who was witness to Stephen
stoning yes he was so I wonder if they
remembered him because he's obviously a
prominent figure because they laid their
coats at his feet yes and he was giving
approval of Stephens death so it's like
whoa who are you yeah with the
infiltrating of your mole yes oh yeah
I'm saved I've been bought with the
blood of the Lamb
I've been baptized I've been filled with
the Holy Spirit my undercover he's
undercover so I get their trepidation oh
yeah here's what I really loved was
Barnabas then Barnabas brought him to
the disciples yeah and he told them how
Paul and he also told them that Saul had
preached Bowlby in the name of Jesus in
Damascus I love that Barnabas the son of
encouragement that's what Barnabas very
again he was encouraging Paul and
encouraging the believers to receive
Paul and remember this is all this is
the second time that we've seen Barnabas
we had he sold some property and it said
Joseph this is for 36 Joseph a Levite
from Cyprus whom the Apostle called
Barnabas which means son of
encouragement sold the field he owned
and brought the money and put it at the
Apostles feet so that is our first
glance or glimpse of Barnabas and there
is he's showing up again and and what's
interesting because we you know him as
the son of encouragement yes and maybe
you know when Paul when Luke was writing
this maybe he dropped that in there so
when he showed up here it made sense
that Barnabas would pick him up and take
him like yeah right there's some
understanding already of who Barnabas is
yeah to be honest I was just like of
course you did Barnabas I'm here you
know that any and it was a step of faith
for him to sell that property and give
the money and he went obviously all in
yeah and so so I wasn't really sure as I
read it's true I'm like okay is that
surprising to me or not but I think what
is and what I have been surprised that
Paul showed up yes was I surprised at
their reaction no I expect them to
receive oh no oh no way man are you
kidding me he was killing he was killing
Christian okay so yeah that's been
keeping so the WoW part for me is that
he talked and debated with the Grecian
Jews but they tried to kill him when the
brothers learned of this they took it
like the brothers learned of this and
they're the ones that saved Paul so it's
like
he proved himself yeah and and they
welcomed him into the family and they
act because they could have had they
could have handed him over right but
obviously he stuck with it enough he
proved himself enough that they're like
yeah you're legit dude like because I
got to think that Saul wasn't the only
one opposing the church right because he
got consent from other the leaders too
that I said yeah you know this is a bad
movement so now he's joined us so he
also had to put himself out there and
trust them well because he's actually
saying no to everything that he's grown
up with like he doesn't see the
knowledge but he's saying but it's so
much more that is not it so he's taking
a huge step away from the teachers of
the law and the Pharisees oh yeah I mean
later on we see that he says you know I
was of the tribe of Benjamin you know a
Pharisee of the Pharisees that under the
big guys and he said but I considered
all rubbish yes
for the sake of knowing Christ yes and
it was that relationship with Christ
that been compelled him yeah humble
himself and to to preach bubi
yes and so you know he says that if he's
gonna boast is going to boast in Christ
alone yeah he's not going to boast of
how he was raised or what he knows or
the people he rubbed shoulders with with
but he's gone I must boast I will boast
of the things that show my weakness the
God and father of my Lord Jesus who is
praised forever this is from 2nd
Corinthians 31 knows that I am not lying
in Damascus the governor under King
Aerys had the city of the damask Oh
golly
Damascus seems guarded in order to
arrest me but I was lowered in a basket
and he's giving glory to God huh like
he's not saying it wasn't anything I was
doing yeah cuz I was preaching the
gospel yeah and so I just you know the
Wow of this whole chapter 9 is the
transformation of a life yes and we
firmly believe that God
has the ability to transform a life and
we want to encourage you today because
you might be thinking there's no way he
can transform me out of this portlet out
of this life that I'm living or your
family member or my family member like
he can't he can't deliver me of drugs he
can't deliver me of pornography he can't
deliver me of the party lifestyle and I
know you desperately want out but you
just think there's no way God will make
a way where there seems to be in a way
there is no way they thought that Saul
was going to be converted he was so
devout and you're like but he at least
knew Jesus and the answer is there a
story after story in the New Testament
where Jesus met with people who had no
idea no idea they just called out to him
and he met them where they're at so
Jesus will meet you where you are at
today so we want to encourage you today
that God is a God of transformation if
he can transform Saul he can transform
anyone so we're going to pray for you
Heavenly Father we thank you so much
that you are a god of transformations
you are a godly impossible and Lord God
we pray in the name of Jesus that you
would continue to transform our lives as
we surrender them to but also Lord God
for our viewers who are watching today
for those that are just really
struggling with can God really do that
work in me or it helps them to step out
in faith and call upon your name because
those who call the name of the Lord will
be saved and so father God we ask in
your name that you wouldn't
refurbishment they would transfer wine
pence online and Lord that your spirit
would be enriched in them in Paris away
and they would preach the gospel as you
would have
I mean look just then thanks so much for
watching and we're going to see you same
time same place next week happy later
you
