welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number five 86 and this
week we have got an Amazon echo dot
third-gen mm-hmm it's really a
complicated name and we've got a Google
home Mini and these two devices are
smart home devices that allow us to do
things like turn on and off lights and
adjust our thermostat and also just be
able to tap into resources like finding
the weather forecast just by asking a
question of our devices but the question
becomes for us because they're the same
price virtually and the same form factor
which one is gonna be best for me which
one should I look at and so tonight we
set out to unbiased provide an unbiased
review for you so that you can make that
decision based on the questions that
we're going to ask so I think we're
gonna have a lot of fun tonight oh yeah
do it so hey stick around we'll be right
back this is category-five tech
GTV our live recordings are trusted only
to solid-state drive by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 dot TV / TPM and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 dot TV slash ia IB and seen with that
we throw away the scripts the rest of
the show is completely unscripted I knew
that's where it's nice to have you here
how is everybody doing good
I'm good I'm good good thank you
nice to see you everybody tonight we're
gonna be talking with and we've got a
couple of interviews tonight and we're
really excited about this big big names
yeah huge we're gonna be talking with a
little miss from Allah I can't say it
just yet we have a representative from
said Amazon echo dot is here to join us
tonight we've also got Google home mini
here with us tonight we're gonna be
speaking with her and we're gonna be
learning we're gonna finally be putting
to rest the question because we all have
this question which one is better right
which one's gonna be the one that does
what I need it to do Jeff hold your
tongue man hold your and some of us may
be like entirely against the the
automated home but all those of us who
are interested in the technology tonight
we're gonna be talking with both of them
and seeing how each one responds to us
and how they react so that's gonna be
that's gonna be a lot of fun
what do you been up to this week this
week homework nothing but I just work
pretty much work and work and homework
any tech stuff well I'm learning how to
use Google slides Google slides so this
is their presentations aka PowerPoint
for Google Drive right yeah okay so I
spent a lot of time learning how to put
audio on each slide is
school is so cool so that you don't have
to actually speak when you're presenting
a presentation okay define so you just
record your voice you Rick oh you attach
it to the side yourself you record it
right computer mic or whatever yeah and
then you just click to the next slide
and then the next thing happens the
problem is I found out there is a
problem if you're working in a group of
people yes you have to be on your Google
Drive the Google Drive like the main one
so the one that created the slides share
Drive you can't you can't put audio on
to like it all hot I can't have anybody
else having an often on Lincoln I did
that seems like a glaring speech is it
is it a permissions issue because I know
if I share our Google Drive folder the
weekly show notes for the for this show
and if I forget to put Jeff on the on
the viewable list right he doesn't show
access it then he can't see it right so
it to him from his perspective he
doesn't see this week's episode right
just sees the previous week's mm-hmm I
have to remember to add Jeff to that
right something like that like I hope so
maybe it's a permissions thing maybe
because it seems like Google's really
got the whole concept of right
collaborative work I would think that
would be a glaring future issue if they
didn't allow it I know I don't know how
many people are doing a presentation on
anemia people try to record themselves
and stick it to a file and then share it
with me it's kind of cool though it is
that's really cool it's better for like
I don't mind so I don't mind speaking or
in front of people I don't mind
presenting anything pretty much but I do
work amongst people who don't do it like
an amazing show every week and so
they're nervous so I said oh I've got a
great idea let's just record your voice
and then I'll get up there and I'll like
go through the slides and your voices
will be on there we tried it and that
didn't work
oh dear so now they're forced to be up
with me at the front of you find that
the the education sector and and the
college system is
transitioning toward use of these
technologies so that someone like
yourself who is experienced working in a
studio environment
mm-hmm all of a sudden has an advantage
over other students because you're
presenting every single week here's the
thing
I am legit the genius in the class and a
contact I react like that Jeff come on
that was genuine astonishment I don't
know I would try what I mean the amount
of tech out there the fact that I would
have thought there would be more people
embracing the Google Drive and all that
kind of so you would have thought more
people would be in Haiti know that kind
of stuff it's incredible already knew
though it is pretty new and you have to
remember the course that I'm in the
demographics are generally like women my
age and I 45 right nicely played sir I
think the whole stem you know the with
women is still growing okay you think
it's a gender gap perhaps are the men in
the group technology well there aren't
any
oh it's an all-female clubs yeah so yeah
control but that's a tough thing but I I
do know that I've never been the
smartest at Tech in the room until to be
fair you do hang out with a lot of geeks
that's true I have access to genius it's
it's tough to to gauge that when you
spend you know when your friends are
basically nerds and that's jinx not that
all your friends are know already much
and most of your other friends Jeff
there are still people who buy Microsoft
Office
yes there are still people who spend
hundreds of dollars in order to get the
ability to do word processing in
specialist exact that so you say like
well people are not familiar with Google
Drive well no there are still there's
still that I just I think the shiaa
transition though but I shake my head
because I'm like it's it's out there so
blatantly obvious that now like I don't
know how people still do it but I'm just
like I think forget
up in the hole and Sasha you can you can
relate to this oh well I've got all my
files in docx format and I'm afraid that
if I transition I'm not gonna be able to
open them but then you upload a docx
file to Google Drive then boom it's
converted and it works in Drive yes so
there's really no you know when you when
you factor that in it's like wow you can
you can really make that transition now
yep I think that's the way the
technology is gone and going but I think
Microsoft starting to feel that we're
learning that this week with the changes
in their browser you mean some to blue
screen of death
no I'm talking about edge yeah we had to
talk about Microsoft edge just last week
about how why why do they still hold on
to that mindset we actually have that
discussion and the very next day they
announced that they're switching to
chromium yes and and this after trying
so hard to convince people that edge is
better than chrome right what you're
saying really is that they watch the
show give them better advice on how to
run their business but it also shows
yeah that would be nice
it shows that they're finally cluing in
that yes we can't pretend that this is
1985 anymore we can't pretend that this
is the early 90s and we own the market
yeah that's not where we're at right
welcome to reality yeah so so yeah it's
a transition for the users a transition
for the companies who manufacture this
off oh my gosh big time yep - what do
you been up to in tech whatever you've
been busy I've been very busy time for
well oddly enough I had a meeting last
Thursday okay so like the day after cat5
and hanging out with some colleagues
from the other side of the boardroom
table and they're like hey let's go out
for lunch you know kind of our last
meeting before you know the holiday
season so we're like okay and while
we're out for lunch somehow the
conversation ended up on cryptocurrency
mm-hm
and with people who know nothing about
anything tech they're basically like I
have the power button on my computer and
that's as far as it goes
sure so I'm talking about cryptocurrency
I'm talking about the blockchain and
they're like glazed-over look and then I
pulled out yeah and then when we're you
know you can mine on single board
computers and we just did an analysis
analysis with the giggle score and
they're like what and I was like yes
real-time giggle score conversation he
made it into real life conversations
yeah it was it was great and the best
part was at the end of sup lunch sorry
the one guy is just like glazed over
he's like I have no clue how you know
any of that stuff I'm like well it's
osmosis really but the other person that
table she's like okay this is amazing I
need to go buy one of those little mini
computer things so it can make me
cryptocurrency right I'm like it's more
than just that you can't just buy the
SBC she's like okay in a world of 86 in
a world of Asics
you're going to go with a Raspberry Pi
zero as your crypto mining but she's
like oh but if I you're gonna be
disappointed so if I buy one of those
little like credit card computers and I
just like let her you know do its math
scores oh my gosh then I can make money
I'm like after a year you might have
10,000 turtle coins
quit making it a swear word sit up with
me in tech is talking to people who deal
in contracts about tech and they're just
like oh okay
so people are interested in the tech
yeah it was really neat yeah it's really
neat and then I was mentioning the
interview we had almost a year ago up
with blockchain and I mentioned the
whole idea about that the question I
raised about passports and then they
kind of got the concept of how it's all
linked and we started talking about the
romaine lettuce recall of the go and I'm
like if it's on the blockchain we'd be
able to know exactly where it came from
and they're going home this is a really
cool idea and then this organization
they also deal in logistics and I'm like
you know if you guys got
Lock chain built into your technology
you'd be able to like from purchase
right through the logistics filled
facility to the store shelf you'd be
able to tell where all your products are
and how who's been involved in like oh
that's interesting
we're gonna have to look into this for
our business I'm like there you go
you're changing the world I don't it was
fun
make it happen Jeff make it happen
single-handedly jeff has brought the
blockchain to Canada not a true story it
is cool to think about how the
blockchain could prevent those kinds of
happens dances so understand when
there's a product recall food in
particular mm-hmm they don't know where
the infected food came from yeah
generally get it down to the region yeah
but that's I mean it all just gets
dumped onto a truck and then gets dumped
into a factory warehouse and then gets
shipped out and gets warehouse and then
gets distributed to the stores so maybe
they can narrow it down to that
warehouse that distributed it to those
stores yeah but how do they know that
it's not also from further down the line
so now okay well it may affect other
stores even though they haven't had any
issues so we just have to pull all the
romaine lettuce right farmers are busy
right
farmers are hurting the whole industry
is hurting people along those chains so
from the farm all the way to the to
table yeah yeah I mean not to sound too
cliche but all the way up to the store
the entire supply chain is affected by
those types of recalls yeah not only
that but the amount of waste think about
it okay so here's what I think I think
if blockchain could be used that I bet
you we would find that a contamination
like that probably isn't it entirely
field wide I bet you if you were right
so it's only an apportion probably so
even the waste from the actual firm that
may be yeah yeah like everything could
save money right along the line but it's
about investing in the technology to
make it happen though and
I mean even just in the vegetable
industry to get that in one probably
it's a good example yeah exactly
but I mean that would be like massive
infrastructure right and and mind shift
to make it happen but to think of all
the positivity that could come as a
result of it cuz I love it so think
about it like say at the farm where
romaine lettuce is being farmed sorry
groan do you call it drumming hecht
it'll be like it'll be cultivated there
you go that sounds about right
my very limited knowledge of farming so
imagine that there's an individual with
some kind of ailment that they have now
introduced into that supply chain I've
learned about set ailment okay so now
this supply so no ten crates of romaine
lettuce now has gone out to the supply
chain right because of those ten crates
of lettuce that are contaminated now
somebody gets sick yeah and they have to
now pull all of the romaine lettuce from
the entire country wrong all the lettuce
in the entire country think about if the
block chain can now say oh no this was
just that one worker mm-hmm and these
ten crates and we can pull those ten
crates that's all yep think about the
amount of food that now is being
recalled that can now let's just put
that into perspective what if we could
take that food that was recalled and and
give that to a third world or two hungry
people right and just imagine how much
good food that is that is basically just
being expired because they can't do
anything with it cuz they don't know
where the contamination took place this
using the block chain is a great way
technology can help to save the world
really absolutely so all right we're not
here to talk about food but the
blockchain I'll talk about exactly yeah
and we're all learning at the same time
we're all learning together because this
is an evolving technology and it's
something that we're seeing with
companies like Walmart and Intel
investing in the technology to make this
happen and if Walmart can bring that in
then all of a sudden the value of the
blockchain also goes up I'm going to
start to see a value increase in the
cryptocurrency market as well because
it's all part of the same kind of
infrastructure of that blockchain so so
it's interesting how everything kind of
plays into one another in this very
strange evolving technological world
that we live in so in a completely
self-serving thought process last week
we mentioned the whole Microsoft issue
an edge and suddenly the next day they
switch and then you know say a year and
a half or now suddenly we see some
blockchain and some produce could we say
it you know yeah sure a cat5 we can't
because it was a news story and Sasha
unveiled it well we could just forget
about that part we're changing the world
you heard it here you heard it here so
give us a thumbs up give this a try when
you have all that kind of stuff you know
how that works
yeah technology wise for me this week
because I know that was the question the
year oh yes yeah here's the thing you
you're everything tech like I'm your
part cyborg you're all text I'm kinda
I've got my hands in so many different
things I'm loving the single board
computers I'm loving that portable like
very micro and learning and and trying
to become a maker and learning to solder
and things like that being able to
program a single board computer even an
Arduino to do some cool stuff it's a lot
of fun for me sure
but I'm stepping back you know christmas
is coming okay there's not a lot of time
to mess around with that kind of thing
mm-hmm
so tonight we're looking at the smart
home devices that you can purchase that
are ready to rock out the door mm-hmm
we're gonna do things like okay google
turn on the light we're gonna say Alexa
turn off the light and that is cool to
me
we're gonna learn all about it tonight
on category five technology TV we got to
take a quick break they'll stick around
we'll be right back
[Music]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
PNH photo/video ebay or amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching all right
welcome back we're gonna get straight
into it we've got an amazon echo dot
third-generation we've got a Google home
mini
they're about the same price okay as you
can see they're roughly let's see if I
can get in here if I can click the right
buttons they're roughly the same form
factor so they look about the same about
the same color shoe yeah yeah they're
and stylistically they're pretty similar
there are some differences before we get
into the review before we start actually
testing these devices which are smart
home devices if you're not familiar with
them we're gonna be showing you how they
work in just a couple of moments time I
actually filmed as I unboxed these so
let's get in there and let's take a look
at the boxes that's what they look like
and okay I've got the Google home many
I'm gonna set aside and let's get into
the box for the echo dot this is the
third-generation as I mentioned there so
this is the current one in 2018 at the
end of the year so this is what you're
gonna be picking up if you if you get
one of these for for a Christmas gift or
something like that nicely packaged you
can see that a lot of detail has gone
into the packaging and it's not loose
within that box it's really really it's
it's well form to the box
looking at this first of all the one
thing that I noticed is that there are a
lot of buttons on top you got the four
buttons here we don't have that at least
not visible on the on the Google device
spinning around I've got power here and
I've also got interestingly enough what
looks like a headphone jack or an audio
output so I can actually connect this to
a bigger speaker system if I want and
I've also got the ability to use
headphones with it so I have tested this
as a podcast broadcasting tool so I
plugged my headphones in and listen to a
podcast from the echo dot and it works
just fine
it's got the basic manuals as you'd
imagine but you notice that with these
devices they're very they're very
limited as far as their manuals go
because there's no a lot to learn
they're self-explanatory presumably and
we've got a power brick there which is a
barrel connector into the Amazon echo
dot nice okay so let's let's pull out
the Google device so this is that's the
Amazon echo dot third gen and I've also
got the Google home Mini which is again
current as Alexa giving us a hard time
Alexa cancel the Google home mini is
this is what is current at the end of
2018 as well so these were both ordered
the same day and there it is so similar
kind of form factor but you notice now
this one the speaker is on the top it's
not wrapped around as you see with the
Amazon echo dot three input wise there's
literally nothing there's no buttons
that you can feel now I have discovered
that there are volume buttons on the
side but they're basically like a touch
sensor then we've got the power input
which is USB mini and we've got a switch
to turn on and off its ability to listen
to me so I always thought when I saw
this ok well this one's got the physical
switch doesn't look like really anything
else but because it has a physical
switch I thought that's going to be the
one because I can I can mute it I can
make it so it it's not a privacy concern
we talked about that in a few moments
again we've got very basic manuals
because presumably they're gonna talk
back to you and they're gonna teach you
how to set them up and they're gonna
walk you through the steps pretty simply
we are at that point in technology which
I love pretty cool stuff
and then we've got a USB see can or a
USB micro USB yeah micro connector and
it's got its own power there perfect
other than that anything else in the box
that is everything in the box so nice
and simple nice and sleek that's all it
comes with folks so those are the two
devices on your left is the the Google
home mini and on the right is the Amazon
echo dot and it's third-generation there
you have it alright so let's let's
actually get a look at these live in
real time on the on the desk here there
they are
so I mentioned with the Google mini it
has a physical tactile switch which will
actually turn off the microphone and if
I flip that mice off it'll actually tell
me that the mic is off and it's gone red
and now it's not able to hear me so if I
say ok Google ok Google
it doesn't respond and before I start
doing this and I apologize because I ok
mic is on please if you use these
devices at home mute them right now ok
because we are going to be going through
this demonstration we're going to be
calling on these devices I don't want to
be setting off your devices I know and I
know that's gonna happen it actually
happened just during the break there
somebody mentioned that that we turned
off their lights and I apologize but
that's gonna happen also an important
note that we have not subscribed to any
of their extra services ok Amazon music
Google Music we have not subscribed to
those things because I want to feel what
it's like as a new user out of the box
what is it like to actually use this
device so we may get rejected by some of
the requests that we make because we
don't have those subscriptions but it's
anytime I want to show you what you're
going to get out of the box without
having to pay extra advance subscription
fees now that said we do have an Amazon
account okay obviously I use Amazon and
with that I do have Prime right yeah I
also have G suite account because I use
Gmail as my email provider yeah so
between the two providers those are the
services that I do pay for each month
mm-hmm and that's it so we haven't
subscribe to anything extra if you get
the Google based device and you don't
have a G suite does that impact the
services you can get from the device I
honestly I don't know Jeff I don't think
that there's anything really tapped into
it other than that it taps into my gmail
and everything like that if I want to
give it permission to do so and but but
this is really just I want to be
transparent with the viewers so that you
understand what what I have what I've
done and I and and some people will do a
review of these devices and they'll set
up all the accounts and they'll pay for
the extra additionals and they'll show
you all the wonderful features I don't
want to do that this is a box this is if
you bought this for mom or dad what are
they going to experience they're not
gonna want to set up a subscription base
and maybe they will but out of the box
what's the experience gonna be like
that's where this review is that okay
out of the box and user experience in
addition to that I should mention that
we are partnered with Amazon so while
I'd love you to buy the Amazon device
because we do get a cut if you use our
link I'm just full disclosure right the
the review itself is completely unbiased
I want you to be able to see both
devices we're gonna we're gonna ask them
the same questions we're gonna allow
them to react and I want you to be able
to make a decision based on your own use
what's going to work best for you so so
yes we are partnered with Amazon I'd
love you to buy them we're not partnered
with Google but but you'll notice
through the course of this review that
we're not allowing that to skew our our
judgments at all of the devices again
please turn off the microphones on your
devices so that we don't set them off if
you've got a phone that uses the Google
assistant make sure you turn that off
just for the moment and because we don't
want to be ordering things for you
yep alright so back into it let's get in
here okay so we've got a tactile switch
on the Google home Mini and and I
thought that the Amazon echo dot didn't
have such a thing because it doesn't
really boast of it and this really shows
it off like that's the only tactile
thing that it has the only thing that
you see on the Google home is a switch
to turn off its ability to listen to you
so I thought in my naivety that well
that's the device for me because we want
to be able to turn off that because
we're concerned about security and
privacy we want to be able to turn that
off yes well what I didn't realize is
that the Amazon echo dot also has this
so if I push that button there oh now
the speaker is off so Alexa Alexa
completely unresponsive it's not
listening to me right now the microphone
is in fact muted so if I unmute that
Alexa and now it's waiting for my
command
Alexa cancel all right see Alexa cancel
I think I just called home alright so a
couple of things that I've learned so
I've had this since Sunday so in three
days now since I've had these two
devices and I've given them both a fair
chance and given them a fair test
against one another and the one thing
that I'll say for you parents of young
children I thought that these switches
to turn off the microphone were for
privacy I honestly thought that I
thought because my wife and I have
private conversations we talked about
the finances and whatever else and our
romantic things and we don't want Google
listening we don't want Amazon listening
so that's what those switches are for
what I found out is that those switches
are in fact so that when you're
listening to Christmas music and your
kids come in and they tell Alexa to fart
alexa fart looks the ball over that's
what those switches are for right
i had in in one evening our first
evening of having it i had Christmas
music playing for the kids oh yeah and
they set it up so that the Amazon echo
dot would send them a reminder every 15
minutes to fart music playing and then
turn the microphone off sure can oh that
is genius that's not if you can get out
with both devices okay okay so we're
gonna give these two a fair shot so
we've got Alexa tell me a joke Jimmy
Fallon take it away
what is it horses favorite band Stalin
knows okay alright well okay Google tell
me a joke why is Peter Pan always flying
because he can never Neverland
huh why is Peter Pan always flying
because he'd never Neverland we got it
twice alright so they both told me a
joke
neither was over-the-top no ok Google
fart the kids love oh ok ok Google
didn't do it maybe it was silent but
violent now I do that because my cue
well that's a disappointment to record a
problem you can send feedback like to
report that my device doesn't fart it
doesn't but the kids for some reason
that's the first thing that they
experimented with now my wife and I were
having a discussion in the kitchen where
and I made you'll you'll maybe
appreciate this so I used coconut milk
to make a not a creme brûlée custard ok
and said oh we should make creme brulee
right now that I've made a vegan
alternative to coconut milk it was with
with cornstarch instead of egg
and I pulled it off it actually was
really really good excellent my wife
said to me well is that all creme brulee
is is custard mm-hmm and I said Alexa is
creme brulee made of custard here's
something I found on Wikipedia creme
brulee also known as burn cream or
Trinity cream is a dessert consisting of
a rich custard base topped with a
texturally contrasting layer of hardened
caramelized sugar ok google' is creme
brulee made of custard on the website
Vespa seats calm
they say creme brulee the simple and
elegant custard creme brulee is a
classic French dessert consisting of a
custard topped with caramelized sugar
very nice finish search results yes
basic yeah same same result different
verbage okay but they both worked they
both answered my question which is
important to me I want to be able to ask
questions and that's a part of the idea
behind having an assistant now if you
use either of these on your phone what I
have noticed is that these are way
faster the response time is
instantaneous is that because it's using
your cell phone data well on my phone
it's slow on my phone if I ask a
question if I ask these same questions
they're delayed in order to give me that
answer with either of these devices
especially honestly the Google seems to
be really zippy they are very quick to
answer the question so when I ask a
question is instantly there it knows the
answer it's not waiting my phone on the
other hand using the same like Google
assistant for example it seems to have a
bit of a delay okay one of the so now
okay well what use is that that's cool
that's really neat and everything but we
want to be able to do things like okay
google turn on the light turning the
light on and that to me starts to take
this into the next level so okay Google
Google I know and I do find that Ansel
I'll need your permission okay go to me
and cancel it gets confused sometimes if
you start talking and you've already
said the key word and I do find okay
Google is a bit of a tongue twister
just write again close the light I turn
off the light sorry I'm not sure how to
help with that that's my fault not yours
okay Google turn off the light you got
it
turning off the light do you find that a
tongue-twister a little bit mm-hmm no no
okay I kind of do
Alexa turn on the light okay not a
tongue-twister at all I don't get
tongue-tied on that do you wanna try
I have a question act okay can you turn
down the volume of the response because
okay the time I would want to turn off
the light is if I was sleepy so Alexa
volume 1 Alexa turn off the light
beautiful Thanks Alexa volume 7 okay
Google volume 7 Alexa turn on the light
okay okay Google
turn off the light you got it turning
off the light now you notice that we
have a light bulb there and it's just
connected to a smart device here which
is just a power bar so this is a Wi-Fi
connected power bar which cost me no
more than normal power bar and yet it
has connectivity to these devices
through Wireless so I can have that
anywhere and all four of those power
outlets plus the USB can be controlled
by voice via either of these devices and
that's why I can say okay Google turn on
the light okay turning on the light but
then I can also say Alexa turn off the
light okay so they play nicely together
they interact together they do what I
don't like though is that with the
Google device it keeps repeating what
I've told it to do I that's why I like
sometimes in the verbage yeah I've
sensed that sometimes that's why I like
the okay I don't want to give our
opinion too much that's my I want you to
make your opinion so but keep that in
mind and listen for that I think that's
fair
now we can't play like music here on the
review because then we're gonna be
monetize on YouTube but I do want to
show you how easy it is to request
certain genres of music so here it is
it's
December 11th when we're shooting this
so I would say okay google play some
Christmas music alright here's a Google
Play Music station called smooth R&amp;B
Christmas okay okay so it works and I
can say okay google skip this song
sounds okay what singer is this this has
real love this Christmas by Kenny
Lattimore
okay Google stop the music which is
pretty cool when you're listening to
music and you can just ask it what Lance
is playing because quite often on the
regular radio you don't necessarily
catch who it is yeah Alexa played me
some Christmas music the station holiday
favorites on Amazon music you notice how
I can just use regular verbage yeah yeah
Alexa skip this song and I like that but
I can just talk to these devices as if
they're in the room and just doing my
bidding
Alexa stop the music and Alexa will do
it will do the same response I should
say Alexa play me some Christmas music
Alexa play some Christmas music the
station holiday favorites on Amazon
music I want this to be fair one two one
Alexa what singer is this this is
Michael Buble okay Alexa what CD is this
from Cedric Donald Atkins was a
researcher for the United States
Department of Agriculture completely off
that answer your question no but to be
fair I didn't ask that question of the
okay one all right Alexa cancel all
right so it's able to tell me who the
singer is and once I get used to the
commands of each in there a little bit
each one is a little bit different yes
but that does it's able to look it up
for me really really quickly again very
very quick we're able to skip music on
both devices
fantastic now we can get in to some
royalty-free music and this is where I
want to talk about the quality of the
speakers okay
so I have personally found and again we
don't want to get into personal my
opinion too much but I do want to tell
you through the experience over the past
couple of days and this has been
reiterated by other staff in the office
because I've had both of these devices
playing Christmas music in my office and
this is and I did not prompt them they
came to me and said they prefer the
Alexa device over pardon me a cancel
they prefer the Amazon echo dot over the
Google home mini really the Google home
mini sounds like a good Bluetooth
speaker right like what you would expect
from a little Bluetooth speaker right
the Amazon echo dot third gen sounds
like a really good full speaker and and
it's pretty much the same form factor
but it does have a much fuller sound and
I hope that we can demonstrate that
tonight certainly these two will be able
to give their judgement and I have a
recorder in front here so what you're
going to hear is going to be from right
in front here from a good quality zoom
h4n and it should be able to pick it up
a little bit anyway so that you can get
a bit of a judgement so okay google play
the fat rat that artist is only
available for google play music
subscribers see that but try this google
play music the fat rat station okay
okay Google what song is this this is
time lapse by the fat track royalty-free
set the volume to five that's kind of
the impression that I got is it's good
it's okay it's like a Bluetooth speaker
you're right it sounds like something
you pick up for 20 bucks yeah it's just
like and and to be fair they're not
expensive both these devices right price
like similarly to one another we're not
gonna talk about pricing but if they're
not an expensive device and it does work
as a Bluetooth speaker but that's all it
sounds like it doesn't sound exceptional
Alexa play the fat rat and this is just
startling songs by the fat rat so Amazon
music right
Alexa what song is this this is unity
from unity by the fat rat again
if you sense the difference I am on the
shore they say yes usually I can't tell
it's great Alexis said go to five
give instructions above the song song a
big fake sign is it not that advanced we
can't it's not on the script
okay can request sir john rowe certain
types of music but it's not gonna be
royalty free looks we can play
so here you go okay so face is a little
better on this it certainly has down
face yeah you're right I was feeling it
right away yeah okay it's not a
subwoofer
but that's it I've got one of these
devices will connect to a Bluetooth
subwoofer the Alexa devices I said it
the Amazon echo will connect to their
own proprietary like they have a
subwoofer yeah for these devices yeah
okay Alexa stop the music so both of
them were able to respond to that and do
a great job of playing a request by
artist name okay okay I'm kind of
bouncing around but what's the range of
picking a voice the the Google device I
find you do have to be pretty close to
okay you can't have it across the room
it definitely won't pick you up if
you're upstairs and calling down the
stairs to it the Amazon echo on the
other hand I can be anywhere and really
and as long as as long as I can pretty
much hear you they can hear me and can I
head over that way and do you want to
give it a try
yeah okay okay I don't know do you want
to go stand in the bathroom way over
there Jeff and just just speak out and
ask it to turn on the light so I'm
waiting I'm like what a good 30 feet
away yeah okay Alexa play me something
from fat rat I can't find songs by fat
rat it's the fat rat but turn on the
light okay turn okay Alexa turn on the
light
Alexa turn on the light okay he's quite
a ways over there now
can you try to have the Google device
turn off the light
okay Google turn off the light sure so
they both responded so that's okay
that's all right I just have a
commanding voice yeah I have found that
the Amazon device has been more
sensitive and that's that's been
impressive okay we're gonna do a quick
reminder so Alexa remind me in five
minutes to make coffee okay I'll remind
you in five minutes
okay Google remind me in five minutes to
make coffee
sure I'll remind you at 8:10 p.m. okay
so keep in mind now in five minutes
we're going to hear from both of these
devices which one is going to be the one
that impresses us okay all right okay
Google what's the forecast today tonight
and Barry its predicted to be - - in
cloudy right now it's - - in cloudy
Alexa what's the forecast today
currently in Barry it's minus one
degrees Celsius with cloudy skies
tonight you can expect snow flurries
with a low of minus three degrees both
of them did really well in that but they
gave different results so what this
weather where did they put it was five
seconds apart and the weather changes I
was gonna barbecue and I was the when is
the Sun gonna go down and I thought hey
here's the question for okay Google what
time is the Sun gonna go down in Barry
the Sun will set at 4:40 p.m. so I was
like okay well I got to get outside it's
getting late Alexa what time is the Sun
gonna set in Barry Barry sunset would be
439 p.m. so okay
right again we hear that the response
from the Amazon device is very succinct
like I would answer a question right
it's not repeating back to me okay all
right let's do some simple math okay
Alexa what's five times 32 divided by
two the answer to your calculation is
eighty okay Google
what's five times 32 divided by two
it's thinking yeah the lights are going
Oh looks like there's a problem
okay Google what's five times 32 / - the
answer is 80 okay a little quicker that
time so it had to trouble yeah
connecting what about some like let's
throw a dot five in there Alexa what's
five times thirty-two point 5 divided by
eighty one point two five
notice again I'm just talking to it like
I'm not having to like the old days
where voice recognition didn't work very
is now it's like I'm just talking to it
as normal okay Google what is five times
thirty two point five divided by two
the answer is eighty one point two five
okay yeah so pretty quick too to answer
so that's good Alexa how much does an
amazon.com let go dot second-generation
black its $19.99 on Amazon after $20 in
savings if you'd like to hear details
just ask so I don't want to give you the
price because the price around the world
is different right and so on we're here
yeah that's much different but I want to
show okay obviously we expect the Amazon
device to be good at telling us those
kinds of things but we can also say ok
Google how much is an amazon.com on the
website techradar.com they say the
Amazon echo dot third-generation is
available now for 49 pounds and 99 pence
for $49.99 for $79 yeah I think that was
different currencies yes Amazon's giving
me a discount yeah I noticed that it's
given me a better price so both of them
answered the question yeah Alexa find a
Starbucks near me I found a Starbucks
it's 1.5 miles away on Yonge Street and
Barry it's currently closed but will be
open tomorrow tomorrow a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
okay they're closed so that doesn't help
okay Google now find a Starbucks near me
I found a few places within six point
nine kilometers
the first one is Starbucks at 389 Yonge
Street bear
the second one is Starbucks at 179 live
8 way Barry
the third one is Starbucks at 76 Barry
view drive Barry okay so they both did
great fun yeah I don't say the fact that
it mentioned kilometres is yeah
arresting compared to miles reference
isn't that interesting so I have the
graphic issue so I have to say Alexa how
long will it take me to get to Starbucks
I found a Starbucks
it's 1.5 miles away and result in not
based on current traffic it'll take
about six minutes to drive there okay
okay so it matters how you ask the
question ok Google how long will it take
me to get a Starbucks the closest
Starbucks is at 620 Yonge Street very on
it will take you three minutes to get
there by car and current traffic I've
sent the directions to your phone that's
this is a reminder oh there are some
reminders okay Amazon just told me make
coffee mm-hmm there's a reminder but the
a counted done the echo did sorry yeah
this is a reminder meet coffee
Alexa thank you
no worries the the Google device didn't
tell me what the reminder was no that's
discreet okay Google yes what's the
reminder hi you have two reminders if
you'd like to hear the details you can
give me permission in the Google home
app oh look for personal results under
the settings for this device they're
being very careful - you can see the
details on your phone to get these
notifications on an iPhone cancel okay
so I can't really judge that because
maybe they're protecting my privacy but
at the same time I've already activated
the device on her account I've given it
the authorization to use I asked for the
command on the device so I would say
that that's a fail so I would say Alexa
won that one Thank You Alexa
she's so confused now because I said the
name Alexa cancel alright so let's try a
couple more okay both told me how long
it's gonna take to Starbucks even though
Google races yes okay Google
sing me a song what the fun stuff that
it'll do for it gets canceled cool the
day I can sing Alexa sing me a song
Alexa canceled I have no idea whether
it's royalty-free or not both of your
win how in the world do they take the
speech software and make it
melodic Melodyne auto-tune isn't that
amazing
Wow about Shimogamo and auto-tune the
news and how they take the the spoken
word and turn it into music it's
incredible technology they can do that
okay so next up let's try shopping so
we're gonna go shopping let's add
something to our list okay okay
yes you want give it a try ask the
Google device
okay Google eye cookies to my shopping
list okay i gotted cookies to your
shopping list okay well I already bought
cookies so get it off your list
oh okay Google remove cookies from my
shopping list
unfortunately I can't remove items from
your shopping list yet to manage your
list please use the shopping list in the
Google home app so I have to actually go
into the app in order to remove
something from my list okay Jeff
try to order add to my my shopping list
on the Alexa device okay Alexa can you
add eggnog to my shopping list I've
added eggnog to your shopping list okay
I have lots of eggnog at home can you
you can never have enough ice pick that
off your list Alexa can you take eggnog
off my shopping list I've checked off
eggnog from your shopping list okay
Alexa will do it Google will not Alexa
cancel
thank you final test is to do with
temperature so I want to know okay
Google
what's the temperature outside the
current temperature in Barry is -2 okay
okay Google what's the temperature
inside it's currently 24 degrees it's a
Celsius
don't you worry Alexa what's the
temperature outside right now it's minus
1 degrees tonight expect a low of minus
3 two more details Alexa what's the
temperature inside inside it's 24 okay
that's warm so it is nice in here right
Becca likes it toasty oh that's actually
communicating through my account with my
nest device Oh
my house it's warm in here too it's
comfortable here okay cuz there's like
24 I'm goin there's no way this is 20
this is 24 24 I would say wow we digress
easily don't wait it's like 21 in here
man so opinions of these devices I'd
love to hear from you comment below I
hope that this has been a little bit of
unveiling for you which one is going to
be best now what is my personal opinion
I thought I was gonna really and even
the first day I thought it was gonna
lean toward the Google device it seemed
very responsive it does a really good
job of interpreting my questions whereas
the the Amazon device would would tend
to stumble over some of my questions
more often but as I'm learning how to
ask those questions I'm finding that the
sound quality of the Amazon device is
actually really making me lean that way
the other thing that I do is I take my
devices all over the place mm-hmm so I
took both of these devices as I
mentioned from home having used them at
home to work okay having taken it to
work the Amazon echo dot in the app I
can change the Wi-Fi connectivity so
that it accesses the Wi-Fi at work right
the Google home many on the other hand
having brought it from home too
to work it wouldn't allow me to connect
it said that I'm not on the same Wi-Fi
network so I looked into it and I
actually have to remove the device
completely and reactivate it if I want
it's unbelievable so but a workaround to
that is at home so I took it home that
night and at home I can delete the Wi-Fi
network then the next day I took it to
work and I added the Wi-Fi network at
work so now it's able to connect at work
but then before I leave work I have to
remember delete the Wi-Fi network
otherwise I will not be able to connect
at home that's not good that's annoying
the Amazon device however I brought that
home then having set it up at work and
it automatically now connected to my
home network so it remembered the
settings for both networks just like my
phone does right and was able to connect
anywhere I went and then I brought it to
the studio and I went through the same
headache where the Google device I had
to first delete the network in order to
be able to connect it here at the studio
and the Amazon device I was able to just
add another Wi-Fi network and connect it
and it was roblem so those are some
thoughts to ponder I found the Amazon
device to be more user-friendly but both
do a very good job and as you know they
both control my lights they both do all
that kind of stuff and keep in mind this
is a different device so the ability to
control devices that's a separate device
I don't put a link for you below and you
can you can check that out as well
they're not expensive but you can get
all these smart home devices so so post
your opinions we'd appreciate that now
with it being connected to your Wi-Fi
and maybe you don't have the answer to
this could you set it up like will the
devices read what's being transmitted
through your network for instance I'm
thinking you've got NEMS
could you create some sort of a report
within Em's that is automatically to be
pulled from the devices so you could say
you know hey what is being asked of the
device yeah like you could say can you
give me a network yeah within those and
it goes all if yeah like Amazon calls it
skills I'm not sure about Google how
they work a similar kind of thing okay
you activate it like a like an app okay
the kids activated the fart skill so
Alexa and they figured it out Alexa
sorry yeah
Alexa canceled yeah so these are skills
that you add so if I create it so being
the developer of names to answer the
question flat out if I created a skill
and uploaded it to Amazon store then you
could request that skill I am working on
one for category five that's okay it
ultimately why I got these two devices
aside okay I'll up these these skills
for these devices so you can listen to
our podcasts and things like that on
these devices so yes if they exist okay
does that help it's amazing that a fart
is a skill apparently it is important
that my resume and Alexa diet skills
okay so do we have time to talk about
privacy or are we out of time
well what do you want to know like I I
can't bring myself to purchase one of
these okay like if I was to go buy one
you're afraid of Big Brother not only
that I'm just afraid of my data
collection okay like if I was to buy one
100% I would go with Amazon echo um just
based on today alone like I'm sold that
that's where I go but I don't like the
idea of it listening all the time even
like it could sit there all day and I
could never say her name but it's gonna
listen the whole time but you do get
used you get used to walking in the room
and saying Alexa play the fat rat
shuffling songs by the fat Wow and then
turns on music and you reach out and now
Alexa Alexa Alexa Alexa you do get used
to that especially when you've got kids
running around and there doesn't mean
likes not listening
it is not listening but I'm still not
convinced Alexis stop the music the fact
that if you don't think about it that's
that's what I struggle with like I don't
activate the the voice controls for my
phone I refuse to do it because I don't
like the idea of it always listening to
me so dumb you know what is your the
microphone but what is the privacy
protections on these like because I know
what like you hear stories where and I
want to say was covered not necessarily
in the news for us but about a month ago
there was somebody there was a home
invasion and the person didn't activate
their device but it still heard the
distress and called the police
well before the show you were telling
that story and you said it's name call
the police it started dialing and I had
to halt it yes because if you if you
state it then yeah I will it will do
that
careful with your word and so what
you're very helpful it can be very very
helpful in a case like that
sure it can which is wonderful but I
just it's I don't know there's something
in me I'm like I just can't do it I'm
it's the fact that everything is being
listened to I just I can't I can't
mentally get put it there until you say
the key word there's not there's no
transaction happening and the
transaction is what I say after the key
word but it's not about the transaction
it's the fact that it's right now it's
still listening because it's waiting for
the name to be called but what's it
doing with that data it's not that's the
question that's exactly why Jeff that
these devices you can't change their
name to Bob Alexa change your name to
Bob sorry I can only help change the way
grow to one of these Amazon computer or
echo 3 options okay because in it's very
very finite system that is built into
this because you're thinking that the
cloud is always listening to you know
the device is listening for those three
key words so it is here in my network
waiting for those key words as soon as I
activate it with the key word now the
cloud is activated and waiting for my
so when I asked for the weather forecast
that request goes out to the cloud and
is translated and then sent back
instantaneously I still don't buy it
and maybe I'm just being skeptical
you're skeptical afraid of technology in
the future and possibly a little
conspiracy theorist
oh sure 100% I I know that I have
conspiracy theory tendencies but it's
the fact that it's always listening
it may not be accessing the club but
it's always listening and I just can't
help but wonder no it's not listening
Alexa Alexa Alexa Alexa Alexa that's why
I love that it does have that button
because I do have that privacy feature
and when I'm not using it because I'm
not always using it you don't have to
leave it on all the time Jeff
when I'm not using it well if you are
really that bad unplug the power yeah
come on true I agree oh for goodness
sake Jeff I know I I'm sure there's
people watching this they're just like
why is this guy on a tech show filled
with plants take out Jeff edit him out
let me know your opinions we'd love to
hear from you if you if you have similar
concerns to Jeff hey post them below and
maybe some of the community can react
and respond to that I have a very
different mindset in that I trust the
encryption that is there and I do
believe that the information that you
know I'm asking for the weather I don't
really I'm surfing the web I'm going on
the web to get my weather it's no
different than asking it this way it's
just a different interface yeah you had
me at like set the reminders I feel like
that's Anna and Amazon's device one that
one yeah I love that it just hey time to
make coffee yeah I love it I like it let
us know your thoughts everybody comment
below make sure you give us a like and a
thumbs up and to subscribe if you if you
appreciated this this hopefully unbiased
comparison links are below again we are
a partner with Amazon so you're welcome
to use our link we'd appreciate that
I've also got a link to that device that
I use to turn on and off the light
and we've got a link to the Google home
Mini as well although they're not a
partner so we don't get a cut of that so
don't buy it
totally kidding you make up your own
mind all right Sasha yeah we're gonna
head right over to the news room are you
ready for it certainly a.m. awesome here
are the stories were covering this week
in the category 5 TV newsroom Google's
parent company alphabet will test its
drone delivery service in Finland next
year Microsoft edge is dead seriously
Microsoft is building its own chromium
browser to replace the default on
Windows 10 Google is expediting the
closure of Google Plus after another
security bug for the second time in
history a human-made object has reached
the space between the stars these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
slide Linux by us Jeff Westen
Gemma you're building a brand-new
beautiful website what
aren't you your terrible actor what does
where acting comes into play I don't
know you're supposed to act okay are you
building a really cool website are you
building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host I'm
Sasha Rickman and here are the top
stories were following this week
Google's parent company alphabet will
test its drone delivery service in
Finland next year Helsinki will be the
first European location for wing which
has been testing drones in Australia
it's aircraft will deliver packages
weighing up to 1.5 kilograms within a
minute of being an order being placed
several companies including wing and
Amazon are developing drone delivery
services but they have spent years in
development without launching in
December 2013 Amazon chief executive
Jeff Bezos predicted his company's
primary delivery service would launch
within five years however its service is
still in development wing said its
drones had made 55,000 journeys in
Australia delivery items such as
medicine coffee and household goods it
said it had chosen fiddlin for its
European trial because Finnish people
were renowned for being early adopters
of new technologies it has invited them
to share what products they would like
to see delivered by drone with
suggestions including breakfast lunch
painkillers and household essentials
customers will be able to place an order
using a smartphone app and the drone
delivery will be offered free of charge
during the trial period for drone
delivery services to be viable the
technology Giants must show that their
drones are safe and reliable critics
also question whether the public will
want noisy drones delivering goods in
towns and cities but wing says drone
delivery
safer faster and more environmentally
friendly than ground delivery wing is
part of alphabets other vets division
which includes self-driving car project
way mo an internet delivery balloon
maker loon okay okay yeah so wing
interest I like it I love the concept of
being able to get something that quickly
yeah within one minute of order accident
that we're setting on you can't cancel
one artery bad yeah that was my first
autumn like a minute yeah like so it
goes in the order goes in is it somebody
on the other end that's going on workers
yeah like that's just ridiculous one
minute intense I would say you know you
know within like half an hour of your
order being processed like what happens
if there's an error you're right you
can't return it but what I can't help
but wonder though is does this open the
door to you know some guy sitting on his
porch again looks like a nice package
take our advice it's like I'm stealin
that yeah GPS is gonna help with that
though yeah yeah that's true I mean
you'll see it come down the Amazon
drones are armed with missiles I wish
that we were testing it here well we
should be testing it here because we
have interesting weather I was gonna say
probably couldn't handle Canadian
weather not if they're battery operated
that I would like for it to be able to
handle it and I would like to be able to
order something and have it delivered
within one minute like the time that my
dear and it takes off within a minute
yes it'll only take a few minutes I ran
out of toner the other day
and had to drive across town because uh
my project was due and town is big when
you're panicking and it's close to sex
and everything's closing but had I known
a drone was just gonna deliver it how
they feel your toner I'm excited about
breakfast lunch and pain come on guys
lunch so you're done
or lock you're out breakfast lunch and
painkillers it would be I know they
talked about household items but it
would be interesting to see how they get
into things like controlled substances
like would they open the door to say hey
you want to buy your alcohol you know
you can purchase it through us we're
gonna drone delivery where's the social
responsibility in that like there's
there's a placed on the person
purchasing right but do you think
that'll happen though we'll see maybe
maybe maybe not I don't even steps
because there's a lot of things that
come with it where it's like how are you
gonna handle the control issue of you
know age-restricted products so does
amazon have to start being that
bartender who says look guy we're
cutting you off this is the sixth beer
delivery we've given you tonight right
cutting you off yeah that's interesting
yeah it'll be yeah it'll be neat to see
how it develops for sure I would like it
here already so finish people finish up
your experiment send it on over live up
to your name
Microsoft edge is dead seriously
Windows 10 the software giant first
introduced its edge browser three years
ago with a redesigned to replace
Internet Explorer and modernized the
default browsing experience to compete
with Chrome and others while the modern
look and feel has paid off for edge the
underlying browser engine edge HTML has
struggled to keep up with chromium
Microsoft is finally giving up and
moving its default Windows 10 browser to
chromium apparently there has been a
growing frustration inside Microsoft
thanks to edge edges web compatibility
issues and businesses and customers have
been pushing the company to improve
things Chrome is now the most popular
browser across all devices
thanks to androids popularity and the
rise of Chrome on PCs and Macs web
developers have been favoring its one
rendering engine to optimize their sites
has been creating chrome only web
services simply because it's often the
first to adopt emerging web technologies
as its engineers contribute to many web
standards Microsoft's rendering engine
has fallen behind as a result and the
company is finally ready to admit this
there were signs Microsoft was about to
adopt chromium onto Windows as the
company's engineers have been working
with Google to support a version of
Chrome on an arm powered Windows
operating system adopting chromium as
the default rendering engine for Windows
10 will end Microsoft's hostility
towards chrome Microsoft has regularly
push notifications to Windows 10 users
to attempt to convince them not to use
Chrome and Microsoft pulled Google
Chrome's installer from the Windows
Store because it apparently violated
store policies hello yeah they've been
saying - so if you try to install Chrome
that will warn you are you sure you want
to do this because edge is so much
better
yeah hopefully nobody ever fell for that
but now how I say oh well we're actually
going to switch roam are you sure you
want to install this because Chrome is
better right
well Chrome or even choice just don't ya
just like here's the facts they the user
wants to install Chrome but that aside
so we had the discussion last week about
how Microsoft is so dead set in their
old ways yes and think that hey if we
force users to use edge they will use
edge well then the user said you know
what no we're not using edge give me a
break mm-hmm
it was a lousy browser to begin with and
horrible doesn't support add-ons or
anything and you you want us to use this
No all right if my choice was between
Chrome and edge I would always pick room
always always 100% of the time always
there's never time why I'd be like Oh
Edge has the edge on this one never
never ever would I ever say that never
so finally they've given up and said
okay well we're gonna base
I don't know if it's still gonna be
called edge or what but it's gonna be
Chrome at its heart because chromium is
the open source project the powers
chrome and is now going to power
Microsoft's default browser as well will
they call it chromium or Chrome what I
don't find interesting and this is like
a very far offshoot is the fact that was
it not Microsoft that bought github yeah
which is all open source stuff so it's
interesting that they buy github which
is about open source now suddenly
they're going to use chromium as the
base it just makes you wonder if
Microsoft is finally gone okay we need
to release the reins start doing some
open source and see what people can do
with our products become a support
company yeah and just it'd be
interesting to see if that's where
they're going and if so what does that
mean for the future of Microsoft mm-hmm
you know are they going to open up you
know office suite to be open source
based if they don't change their ways
then they will I mean I I hate to say it
because it sounds presumptuous and it
sounds prophetic in a way but they go
down go be found only in past episodes
this week who just said he's been saying
for years that Amazon will not last
forever it's going to go down because he
said there's about a 30 year shelf-life
on all major companies so I don't
Microsoft is out that they're past it
well they're there and they're still
holding on to old paradigms and they
need to get out of that and they're
trying I mean I have to give them that
they're switching now from edge to
Permian but again they're making big
mistakes with regards to everything that
they do Windows 10 is the last version
of Windows we're just going to update it
and every single update for the past
four months night so people are losing
faith in the very OS and people are
saying now we need Windows 11 well know
Windows 10 is the last Windows they need
to just get over themselves and move on
mm-hmm is what they need to do and maybe
that's what they're doing with chrome
they need to just go back to Longhorn No
no job was failure yeah Wow okay Google
is expediting the closure of Google Plus
after yet another security bug
we knew Google+ was shutting down but
Google has announced that they are
expediting this process since a new
security bug was discovered with the
Google+ API 50 2.5 million users in
connection with a Google+ API
potentially had their name email address
occupation age and other information
stolen in this latest breach Google is
moving up the closure of the consumer
Google+ to April 2019 and closing down
all the Google+ API s in the next 90
days Google says we want to give users
ample opportunity to transition off
consumer Google+ and over the coming
months we will continue to provide users
with additional information including
ways they can safely and securely
securely download the and migrate their
data yet another Google service to add
to the graveyard checkout killed by
google.com for the full list we knew it
was coming I knew when I signed up for
Google+ that it was gonna fail really
miserable miserable I don't know that I
don't know that I signed up for it I
found as soon as I signed up for it it
was not valid for what I would want yeah
it was very it was obsolete from the
get-go because there was just nothing to
make it community based it felt very
circles - I did have it I did have
Google+ I did have it I think it was a
failed attempt of kind of like creating
a new type of Facebook yeah social media
and yeah everything else I kind of feel
like this is this has been hyped a lot
yeah the Google+ shutting down has been
in the media and we're reporting on it
as well but it kind of feels like Google
is just they're trying to get rid of it
they're trying to and so the there have
been theories and maybe conspiracy
theories but folks who think that Google
is just creating these
exploits oh that's hilarious that's a
great theory so that people lose
confidence in the platform that they
already don't have confidence in because
who's gonna care just the people who
have their data on us like three well
I've got to get my stuff off three
people everybody else in the world is
like who cares if Google+ has been
compromised so they know that and so
they create this fake hey we've been
hacked again well do this to save you
gone I don't I mean I looked up faith in
a company that they wouldn't build their
brand off insecure products no but they
are big enough goggle alphabet are big
enough that they can just if they want
to brush this one they want this one god
when I get rid of it so they could
theoretically do something like that
they could say that because they're who
cares about that bridge s nobody cares
about that breach except the people who
have their data on it who now have been
given an opportunity which 90 days of
which to get what are you actually does
garner like a lot of consumer confidence
like oh they're reporting on their own
thing and shutting it down I like them
yeah you're not gonna fix it because
it's a dead thing yes we're not gonna
put any work into it we're not gonna
dedicate man-hours to that just like so
they've got marketing people so using
false hack exploits it's akin to like
saying I want a new microwave so I'm
just gonna throw this tin foil in the
microwave and hit five minutes mm-hmm
it's like Sasha throwing her things on
the floor to get warned to replace it's
not on purpose I can't even call them
lines
I did it oh I can't get a replacement
warranty but you can send me a new one
because I liked it so much don't go too
far down this rabbit hole then you'll
reveal who we're talking about nobody
knows it's completely inside and
completely inside for the second time in
the space between the stars NASA's
Voyager 2 probe now has exited the
heliosphere the protective bubble of
particles and magnetic fields created by
the Sun comparing data from different
instruments abre aboard the trailblazing
spacecraft mission scientists determined
the probe crusts the outer edge of the
heliosphere on November 5th this
boundary called the heliopause is
the tenuous hot solar wind meets the
cold dense interstellar medium its twin
Voyager 1 crossed this boundary in 2012
but Voyager 2 carries a working
instrument that will provide
first-of-its-kind observations of the
nature of this gateway into the
interstellar space Voyager 2 now is
slightly more than eleven billion miles
from Earth mission operators can still
communicate with Voyager 2 as it enters
this new phase of its journey but the
information moving at the speed of light
takes about 16 point 5 hours to travel
from the spacecraft to earth
by comparison light traveling from the
Sun takes about eight minutes to reach
Earth together the two voyagers provide
a detailed glimpse of how our
heliosphere interacts with the constant
interstellar wind flowing from beyond
their observations complement data from
NASA's interstellar boundary Explorer or
ibex a mission that is remotely sensing
that boundary NASA also is preparing an
additional mission the upcoming
interstellar mapping and acceleration
probe or IMAP due to launch in 2024 to
capitalize on the voyagers observations
while the probes have left the
heliosphere Voyager 1 and Voyager 2 have
not yet left the solar system and won't
be leaving anytime soon the boundary of
the solar system is considered to be
beyond the outer edge of the Oort cloud
a collection of small objects that are
still under the influence of the Sun's
gravity the width of the Oort cloud is
not known precisely but is estimated to
begin at about 1,000 astronomical units
or au from the Sun and to extend to
about 100,000 au 1 au is the distance
from the Sun to the earth it will take
about three hundred years for Voyager 2
to reach the inner edge of the Oort
cloud and possibly thirty thousand years
to fly beyond it Voyager 2 launched in
1977 sixteen days before Voyager 1 and
both have traveled well beyond their
original destinations the spacecraft's
were built to last five years and
conduct close-up studies of Jupiter and
Saturn however as the mission continued
additional flybys of the two outermost
giant planets Uranus and Neptune pollute
proved possible as the spacecraft flew
across the solar system
remote-controlled reprogramming was used
to endow the voyagers with greater
capabilities than they possessed when
they left Earth their two planet mission
became a four planet mission their five
year life spans have stretched to 41
years making voyager 2 nasa's
longest-running mission unbelievable
this is great this is we they definitely
did not picture this when they put the
spacecraft up into the atmosphere right
and here it is 41 years later blow in
our minds unreal
was it once it reaches the Earth cloud
that could happen I can't see it ever
going through but if it gets there we're
gonna start to see I I hope do we get to
see pictures no does voyagers it's gonna
be data it's gonna be data but but
that's what I find so fascinating about
this is that it was a five-year mission
it's now 40 plus years into it the
technology that's on Voyager 1 and 2 and
the data that's being transmitted is so
archaic to what we use today but it's
still sending information we're like wow
this is amazing I wish I had digital
CMOS sensors back then oh yeah like
could you like imagine the information
we would collect now if we were able to
but it's just it's neat that we're going
out we're still receiving the
information 16 hours later it's like
sherry come on
but I will say totally you know just
Hollywood eyes the fact that it's still
going and you've got those Star Trek
movies you know feature which one was
is that Star Trek 4 with the eternal
Series stuff the original oh it was so
good but it makes me wonder one day if
we get there are we gonna find these
satellites crashed somewhere oh my
goodness that's it that's how far it got
from oh now it's coming back to me Jeff
I'm sure I saw that that's where the guy
like saw that I forget his anybody's he
like melds with the Spock no no not for
Sarah it's a crewman I forget
okay I don't know here since I've seen
that yeah it's so cool
in reality though yeah I mean away from
sci-fi videos of the the era like this
is sensing data that is further away
from her than anything has ever been and
I think you know will the technology
come that we can then surpass it like
we'll sure we send a probe that flies
well past Voyager 2 and says see yeah
I've got 16 megapixels in an array of
500 sensors and I'm gonna be taking some
pictures of this Earth cloud so it won't
be missed a welcome they could create
another satellite to hit the trajectory
path and go we're gonna like here's a
robotic whatever that's gonna install
other sensors on you and you know take
pictures of it yeah maybe rub some of
the the zebra mussels off it's something
like that the interest to see if we have
you know we could have the technology
we're gonna we're gonna update you on
the fly you know it's like a refueling
spit in air just shoot it down it's been
up there for a long time I just having a
five year lifespan and then being like
extended to 41 years the poor Voyager 2
is probably one can I retire how's the
anti-malware on there think about that
how hackable is this device it's up
there with technology from the 60s
exactly it's still very cool story
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm
Jeff Weston thank you once again for
being here with us this week folks I
hope you had a great time I sure have
and I look forward to being here with
you again next weeks we'll see you
[Applause]
