I got a package came in the mail here
yay and I got to admit I'm a little bit
concerned it rattled Oh something some
things up their thing yeah let's uh
let's bring over our unboxing cam here
yeah and he's got the unboxing I camera
I've worked so hard to do this correctly
if watch this oh oh oh full 90 degrees
look at you go here we go we trained him
for a week on that okay here we go let's
see what we got here oh what oh and the
cell is broken off oh no we're going to
take a look at that in just a second but
this is ncc-1701 d an alloy model
officially licensed merchandise very
very hard to get your hands on however
we do have these now we've got a
stockpile at cat five dot TV / Star Trek
and with this well I mean every geeks
dream is to have the enterprise you can
have your own starship now it'll take up
you know what it's really really hard to
find this I i have a you can see it from
here the viewers can't see it but i have
a un des reliant on yourself oh it's
kinda like Siri i bought the Reliant
because I couldn't get ncc-1701 d but
notion to the enterprise the next
generation yes it is finally here
finally walked in here thank you yes ok
so let's see so this is this is an alloy
like metal 6 inch model slices all the
details on it like to eat a lovely
detailing with all the small windows
courts I'm being so Alec so gentle okay
so I've got in the cell that has fallen
off now than this cell is plastic I can
tell that the body is direct definitely
an alloy are they actually backwards
though oh no they aren't in the cell
Nyad at your fine sorry I was like y
tomas sweet so it's not actually broken
Oh
okay I can't tell I can see a bezel here
and I want and I want to try to yank on
it and see if the saucer section does
come off I don't think that isn't the
movie yes it's not the movie not yeah
this is not encounter at Farpoint Robbie
oh my god okay but there you go doesn't
that look beautiful does it have like a
good way to a two or give the field whoo
so now you can actually yeah it's
exactly what we're going to do okay
we've got to stand here all right so I'm
noting i right now this is this is great
and they help all the small details as
well and they actually it's really well
detailed and actually has texture to it
too like it's not just all like stuck on
yeah Brooklyn FL you broke off in the
south yes so feel like a Geordie
Ramanujan camera that'd be cool wouldn't
that be me lebyadkin it was like a
little drone discovers around it does
feel like maybe there was meant to be a
little bit of glue on that so i can
easily fix that but yeah can you guys
it's so tiny and yet the detail and
that's a thing too is that it's real
metal it's not plastic Andrew right so
beautiful so this is going back to 2012
when this was designed developed and
sold and this is what i mean by it it's
getting fairly hard to get this as a
collectible item but you can pick one up
and it is actually very cheap at cat
alive dot TV / Star Trek nice I don't
like to mention pricing on this on the
show but as from week to week the
pricing is going to change oh yeah
definitely but under twenty dollars
seriously you have that quality I'm
surprised I thought it was at least
going to be 50 or 60 and they actually
have I saw one on the Amazon same thing
and sometimes charging 100 and a quarter
for it Wow because they are collectors
items now now how does this work I guess
this must clip on its with the disc and
okay let's move that Michelle bit I need
to glue on and that happened during
transit I guarantee you oh it actually
oh it goes on like that also it's like
the rear sex
and ok song gets basically taken off
there you go nice I tell you those
Klingons you know like they they do some
damage to what you want about Orson
there you go there there it is nice low
thing to add to our set awesome get it a
cat five dot TV / Star Trek i'm going to
move a couple things aside here and
there we go our new studio space Eric
prepare for water beautiful what's
awesome keep the package in if you get
one I want to see a picture
[Music]
