Henry Bailey Brown yes sir
you've been on the show in previous
iterations and we've talked about the
Raspberry Pi it is my baby I love it
and that's where we kind of took single
board computers back in those early days
so Sasha though you've been here as
we've done some unboxings killers yeah I
would have to say I mean Raspberry Pi is
a fantastic platform for education and
for likely restarting and it's cheap
yeah I have women love it love it but
fact is there are other manufacturers
who have brought out things that are
much more powerful exact it's as simple
as that so I've been working on stocking
up my single board computer kind of box
I've got like a box I've got my
Raspberry Pi 3 B+ so this is the latest
and greatest model of the Raspberry Pi
still has one gig of ram ok still is it
four cores of processing Lisa oh yeah
yeah but it's it's slow but it's
wonderful for connectivity the GPIO and
things yeah if that's all you need and
that's perfect right exactly
but then if you want to here's my
scenario so this is what we're up
against in my household we've got a 720
720 p television set in our living room
that doesn't currently have a set-top
box
I had the Raspberry Pi 3 B+ plugged into
it mm-hmm cuz it has HDMI output it plug
in and it'll do 720p just fine right
what I found with the Raspberry Pi
though it has built-in Wi-Fi but the
Wi-Fi is really not good oh yeah same
experience we tried to stream with my
Raspberry Pi 1080 just doesn't want to
doesn't want to run I'm being kind the
the Wi-Fi is really bad
yeah the Raspberry Pi so in order to use
the Y in order to use this as my set-top
box I'd have to run an Ethernet cable
which means putting holes in the walls
and going through a whole process I've
got really good Wi-Fi at the house so I
really want to find something that I can
do a little bit better so we've got
things like like rock 64 for example
which I can plug a USB
by adapter into and then I've got a
really good Wi-Fi but it's a lot more
powerful that's good we've got things
like the a 64 LTS from Pine 64 which has
a module for Wi-Fi so we unbox this and
set it up but I've actually got and you
know what I can zoom in on this so that
you guys can get a little bit better of
a look so this rock 64 pie pardon me the
pint 64 a 64 LTS has that Wi-Fi chip
here and it's got a little antenna that
I've stuck on to the Gigabit Ethernet
we've got a lot of glare there but so it
has built-in Wi-Fi as well so it's gonna
do pretty well and it's again yeah a bit
more powerful than the Raspberry Pi but
then we get stuff like the next step up
which is the rock pro 64 also from Pine
64 and it gets confused because it's
Pine 64 Rock pro 64 from pine 64 but it
starts to make sense once you start
looking at these things so this is the
rock pro 64 and it has PCI Express so I
can plug a like a riser card into that
and do much more one of the things you
notice Henry though is that one of the
great things about the Raspberry Pi is
that it's got GPIO but we're also
finding on these boards that have also
got GPIO yeah but we've got true Gigabit
Ethernet you notice that there's USB 3
port there's OTG we've also got USB 2 on
this particular card we've got some
tactile switches we've got an audio out
and we've got like HDMI everything that
you would expect so we've got more power
from a board like that then from a
Raspberry Pi exactly and it's just
slightly larger exactly but still a
great set top kind of device it really
is now the nano PI M for which Marshman
provided to us and we did an unboxing
couple weeks ago if you haven't seen
this one yet you've got to get a look at
it check out our website oh this is it
and it's powered on right now I'd
powered it on just because I kind of
wanted to see how it how it operates
I've got a thern 8 I've got a USB mouse
I've got HDMI output the HDMI does 4k
I've got a USBC cable giving it power
we've got again we've got GPIO here with
the raspberr
pipe in architecture but we've also got
2x PCIe here which we can use this
expansion for if we want to put SATA
hard drives if we want to put better
Wi-Fi gigabit ethernet even 10 gig
Ethernet will go on that Wow that riser
as well but it has built-in Ethernet one
gig it's got 4 USB 3 ports up to 5 gig
each and it's got kind of everything
that you need it does have an emmc riser
but I'm running it off of an SD card
because I don't have that particular
kind of emmc card it's not the standard
emmc it's some kind of proprietary thing
interesting yeah but what I do love too
is ok so this is 6 course it's got 4
gigs of RAM they also have a 2 gig model
well but with 6 cores and all the power
that this baby has it's gonna generate a
lot of heat you know check out the
heatsink on the bottom of this this is
low for 7 bucks extra you get this
heatsink and this is actually hard
screwed into the board and it's got
thermal contact with the rock chip
underneath there he's got the dual
processor with 2 core and and for course
a 6 cores total and 4 gigs around and
this will absorb all that heat and marsh
man was pointing out to me these rivets
here are actually threaded quarter inch
oh so I could stack it I could put it on
a tripod
oh my god that's that is crazy what of
that but here's the thing that I didn't
realize before hooking it up tonight and
we're gonna do some benchmarks over the
next couple of weeks
alright it requires a lot of power this
would be true mm-hmm I mean you think
it's it's pretty powerful and this might
be the one folks because it has I mean
Wi-Fi specifications check this out
the built-in Wi-Fi with this one it has
802
eleven ABG and AC all there plus as I
mentioned it's got the Gigabit Ethernet
specifications wise it's got the RK
$33.99 CPU it's kind of a dreamy board
yeah in the Raspberry Pi form factor you
can go all the way up to 4k 60fps it's
incredible the full nine yards it's kind
of that's that's the next-gen the little
beast yeah so when I say it needs a lot
of power that the most powerful USB mm
adapter that I had was from a Raspberry
Pi 3
yeah and it's 2.1 amps how much do we
need for this guy I'm powering it off of
2.1 amps right now but it does not like
it right and on the site they're selling
it with 4 amp power supplies and a
recommendation is going to be 5 amps 5
you need that power so so I'm gonna get
I've set up with a more powerful power
supply for it because I guess once you
get into you know they're not raspberry
PI's that are much more powerful than or
as far as specifications go so you've
got to step up that power supply so
using the old charger from your
blackberry not 1 amp things that you get
from China then they're not going to cut
it you need to have I'm gonna say at
least a 4 amp probably to really run
this well that's what I want this might
end up on my TV if things go well this
cross just 3d printer case or something
for you there you go that would be you
know what because it's got those those
threaded yeah rivets I'm gonna just
knows what I can do I can go to my
camera rig it's awesome yeah well just
just thinking about it to like I don't
want to get like a Raspberry Pi or
something like I had raspbian
pre-installed I have all these other
features so when when you open the box
I'm sorry I wasn't here for it um does
it have anything pre-installed or is it
like micro SD or more in here so when
you say you got it with raspy and you
probably got the noobs yeah yeah you can
so you got like a like a can of kit yeah
yeah it has a power supply it had the SD
card already pre-built exact so that
that's a little different in this case
you kind of buy the parts that you need
so you buy
the board for like 65 $66 you buy the
the heatsink for another seven dollars
get the power supply for eight or nine
bucks and if you want you can get the
emmc 16 gigs as always not very much
money I think they're charging only like
nine bucks for it or something like that
really cheap I've just stuck a Kingston
SD card into it so it doesn't come with
storage you can buy storage separate but
you've got to flash the OS yeah so what
do you do so this is where Raspberry Pi
kind of differs from these boards in
that and this is this is the next gen
this is okay you've been playing with
the Raspberry Pi
yeah you can experience that you've
you've gotten through noobs and you've
gotten through that kind of introductory
like okay this this card came with the
OS on it yeah now okay I'm ready to
install etcher and do my own flashing so
if we head over to their website which
I'm gonna this is funny because I'm
gonna have to actually a hug
HDMI here to be able to show you should
be able to transition the seamless
transition so if we head to their
website it's friendly armed calm Henry
if you click on downloads you're gonna
see a list of all the downloads for all
the different s pcs this is called the
nano PI m4 so if you visit their their
Google Drive then you're gonna get a
list of all a various amount of files
that are available for this board so
you've got for example so I want SD SD
card so we've got friendly core which is
like the just the base OS or a front
friendly desktop which is like pre-built
with the desktop then we've got things
like Lubuntu we've got android seven
seven we've got android eight so you can
actually run android on this which truly
makes it an ideal scenario for tinkering
and putting it up on your TV for sure
but i want to really try out that
friendly desktop and so that's the one
that i have flashed on to my SD card so
you download the OS oh yeah it's an
image file you install a piece of
software that's like I use HIO
mmm-hmm and once you've got that
installed you just browse to the image
plugins D card yeah you absolutely so
accessible it's awesome yeah
so this distro and now I've lost it now
that I've unplugged it and plugged it
back in I wish I could show you you've
got to see this and what we're gonna
actually do next week is we're gonna
we're gonna order the power supply that
we need in order to make this thing have
as much power as it needs all right and
then we're gonna be able to power it up
and really show you how this thing how
this thing operates but we're also going
to set it up I've just repowered it
mm-hmm
we're gonna set up a couple of other
SBC's we're gonna do some benchmarks
we're gonna do some comparatives and
we're gonna see how each of them
performs side by side Henry what are you
doing next week so you see all these
SBC's we're gonna be running some
benchmarks we're gonna see what each one
performs like and I'm in particular I'm
really excited about the Nano PI m4 and
the ROC Pro yes from Pine 64 these are
two boards that I think are head-to-head
they're gonna be the contenders it's
gonna be really interesting to see the
comparisons to it absolutely and we've
got a black screen I just wanted to see
if it's if it's come up I only have 2.1
amps we need four amps to get that thing
up and go next week next week come back
you wanna see that bad boy running and
you want to see it put up against these
other SBC's make sure you're here on
category 5 TV for episode number 583
that's correct right well
[Music]
[Applause]
