here the stories were covering this week
in the category 5 TV newsroom it's
official if you had a yahoo account in
2013 it was compromised all is
investigating a series of reports about
battery problems with some of its new
iPhone 8 plus phones in videos and
videos CEO says Moore's law is dead
claiming GPUs will soon replace CPUs in
the near future you may be able to eat a
robot that will heal you or provide
nutrients and don't mess with Amazon a
couple is facing up to 20 years in jail
for stealing over 1.2 million dollars in
merch from the online shopping site
these stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere Jeff Weston Jemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website
aren't you you're terrible actor what
this we're acting comes into play you're
supposed to act
okay I'm building a really cool website
are you building a really cool website
just because Jeff is confused doesn't
mean you have to be visit cap five dot
TV slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host this is
the category five TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories sleight
Linux bytes
iemon and here the top stories were
following this week Yahoo is revealed
that the major security breach in 2013
compromised all three billion accounts
the company maintained
that's a three-fold increase over the
estimate it disclosed previously the
revelation contained in an updated page
about the 2013 hack is the result of new
information and the forensic analysis of
an unnamed security consultant
previously Yahoo officials said that
about 1 billion accounts were
compromised with Yahoo maintaining
roughly 3 billion accounts at the time
the 2313 hack would be among the biggest
ever reported yahoo officials wrote in
the update we recently obtained
additional information and after
analyzing it with the assistance of
outside forensic experts we have
identified additional user accounts that
were affected the report goes on to
reveal the jaw-dropping truth saying
yahoo has determined that all accounts
that existed at the time of the August
2013 theft were likely affected the
information has taken the information
taken in the heist may have included
users names email addresses telephone
numbers dates of birth passwords scram
passwords scrambled using the week md5
cryptographic hashing algorithm Wow
and in some cases encrypted or
unencrypted security questions and
answers so that's a big deal oh yeah
so Dave had a yahoo account at that
point
this is Sasha's husband Dave right so
now that hey your data was compromised
we know that your data was compromised
right well I mean until he watches this
episode right and he won't know that
because before it was just one in three
shot may have been okay so if you had a
yahoo account in 2013 or before so when
I signed up for it as a kid and then
never cancelled it and I did all of my
email all of my the the information that
is connected to that account so let's
think about what that means I sign up
for online services mm-hmm when I do
that
I provide my email address as a means of
connecting to that service so if I ever
forget my password what do I do
I click on forgot password and it sends
right he-what a link to reset your
password by email right so if the users
email account was completely compromised
this assuming yahoo being the email
account
mm-hmm at least that aspect of their
services then any malicious user could
create a script that does forgot
password on all these different services
PayPal online banking Twitter Facebook
and gets that email sent to that email
account and then is able to compromise
the account so then all of a sudden the
account is locked the first thing they
do is change your password and that's
done right so how do you protect
yourself like how in the future now like
you had a yahoo account in 23rd right
what do you do now there's so much
potential for what could be compromised
and even just thinking of okay what was
my yahoo password I can't even remember
but was it the same password that I used
for my online banking right I don't even
remember my what my yahoo email was I
just know I had one right but it was
connected in some way to you recently
you had to provide personal information
be it your address or your phone number
in order to activate that account there
are emails in the inbox right that are
connected to you so how do you protect
yourself well first of all you've got to
change your passwords so hey if you had
a yahoo account back in 2013 and any of
these questions are relevant to you if
you're thinking maybe I did use the same
password somewhere else or maybe I have
some services connected to Yahoo you
need to cancel that connection yes your
email account on all of your like if
Twitter points to your yahoo account
change it to Gmail or whatever it is
that you're using now and change your
password on that service because you
don't know somebody may have already
done the forgot password routine and not
done anything about it right it might be
a benign thing where they are
accumulating logins and passwords right
right and then all of a sudden they hit
that's you know zero day if you will you
know you don't see it coming and all of
a sudden boom 10,000 accounts are
compromised how did it happen they've
been working at it for four years right
right okay so if this ever happens again
yes should I just have like an email
address that is just for those things
like how do you protect yourself because
say email gets hacked again mm-hmm do
you like can I just have like a random
email address that's not linked to me
and any other it's going to be like is
it yeah so the fact is is you just need
to realize that your email is really a
central hub of information about you
right so if uses if you ever suspect
that there is something malicious going
on you need to immediately change your
password do whatever it takes to make
sure that your services that are
connected to that email account are
updated to use different passwords for
example change your passwords it might
help to just always be suspicious and
just change your passwords frequently
yes yeah it certainly there is something
to be said for that
kind of security through but but then
what happens if if you get into a
routine
I've seen this in businesses if you get
into a routine of often changing your
password people tend to fall to simple
passwords like adding a 110 to the end
or two or three this is how people get
you know why is password one two three
the most popular password because people
don't like to have to constantly change
their password right and if you get into
that routine you will eventually fall to
the fact that oh I already used that
password oh I already use that password
okay I'm just gonna add a 1 to the end
right and that's where did we not cover
is either news story or something a
while ago I'm gonna say maybe six months
ago about the strongest password you can
use is actually like three random words
essentially what that feature that
you're describing was covering is what's
called a password recipe right right
password recipe is used to create strong
passwords that you will remember but
nobody will ever be able to figure it
out and computers even can't hack it
very easily at all right so that's what
you want to look at so if you're not
familiar with password recipes get on to
category 5 dot TV and do a quick search
up at the top for password recipe he's
busy
thank you over the last six weeks six
reports have come to light which show
the new iPhone 8 plus phones splitting
apart soon after they start to be used
in all cases the battery inside the
phone has swollen rendering the phone's
unusable it is not yet clear whether the
swollen batteries are a few isolated
cases or indicative of a bigger issue
the first report about the affected
iPhone 8 plus came from Taiwan phones
with a similar problem and they have now
emerged in Japan China Canada Greece and
Hong Kong in a statement Apple said it
was aware of the reports and was looking
into what might have caused the fault
Apple's problems follow Samsung's
experience with its Galaxy Note seven
last year hundreds of faulty Galaxy Note
sevens were reported as faulty soon
after the device launched the scale of
the failure prompted Samsung to recall
and discontinue the handset the problem
was traced to a design flaw
analyst Sam Jaffe says battery bloat
typically happens at the end of a
battery's useful life explaining that
having it happen soon after a product
line launch is troubling
so the Samsung problem similar to the
Apple realm was a battery problem right
yes design flaw that kind of makes
design flaw they explode exploded yeah
apples is bloating is bloating just one
step below exploding like are we going
to expect it
if you take a lithium polymer battery or
some battery that expands under use in a
very very tiny shell because we are
consumers and we demand tiny so get a
big battery large capacity little tiny
shell small form-factor and you've got a
recipe for disaster
so what could happen like okay so say my
battery's bloating my phone's becoming
unusable
I don't know exactly how that how that
looks but if I was to try and squish it
could I I could I make that can I make
it like even more dangerous trying to
you know drill a hole to relieve the
pressure yeah not smart no you can't
push it
it's not like it's spongy did you ever
have a blackberry no okay
blackberry batteries were notorious near
end-of-life for bloating but because you
can pull the battery and replace it it
wasn't that big a deal people I go home
about who's getting bloated so they pull
it out and put a new one in you could
tell it was time right it happened with
my BlackBerry's all the time but in this
case it's built into the case you can't
do that right so but yeah absolutely
it's dangerous what are some ways that
you can prevent battery bloat then like
in this case obviously it's happening as
soon as the design yes as soon as the
phone is used and it's bloating the
battery but so look at you know like I I
have a case on my phone so this is going
to make my phone warmer and it's less
heat dissipation than if it was just the
aluminum bar
or whatever it is right so that heat
causes the battery to expand right
during load so if you're watching videos
for example or playing games games are
you know they have 3d so they use a lot
of resource power and and draws a lot of
battery power and causes heat right so
what can you do what can you fit sign
fly if it's a problem with the device
itself then there's not a lot you can do
well I would say the first thing is the
iPhone eights are not that old so maybe
you return it under warranty well
exactly you've got a 1 year warranty
with Apple and if Apple is recognizing
it as a design flaw it makes me wonder
if they'll provide an extended warranty
on that not that it's been announced but
it makes me wonder if it's something
that there be considering because there
will be a legal liability factor if they
go thorry your one day past your one
year and then the battery explodes and
somebody gets burned mm-hmm you know
there's gonna be legal battles that come
as a result of it so you know I think at
some point you're gonna see Apple say ok
we'll replace your battery for free
under warranty I think about these
stories with the galaxy note 7 where you
know people had burnt pillows and things
because kids you think about it so I'm
talking about heat being one of the
problems one of the the things that
caused this so you've got a kid who's
playing video games in bed right and
then mom or dad come up the stairs and
what do they do they shove it under
their pillow right and or what if you
think it generates more heat using like
a white noise generator while you sleep
right on your phone on your phone and
it's just constantly running and you're
not thinking anything else don't have it
under your pillow get an external
speaker yes as soon as you in case that
under a pillow or something like that
there's no way for the heat to dissipate
well it's fine
there are some apps that will measure
like if somebody doesn't have you know
like a SmartWatch you can get apps for
your phone that you stick under your
pillow for the purpose of measuring your
sleep cycle can tell when you move and
all that that's not great is that's the
case right because you're shoving it
under do you mean that the the phone
itself has hello it's not a device no
it's the actual phone so if the perp
like your what you're trying to do to
keep battery bloat from happening is
keep your phone cool mm-hmm so you take
the case off is there anything else you
can do can you do some sort of where it
dissipates right could you attach
something to it that would help no no no
I really boils down to just knowing that
hey certain apps are gonna run your
device hot yeah I find for example when
I use a VR headset with the LG g3 it
gets really really hot because the
processor just goes crazy yeah that
device my device the g3 will turn itself
off if it gets too hot that's annoying
yes smart feature right and maybe you
know maybe there are apps that can be
added to these other devices that would
assist with that if you're a battery
developer for phones come up with
something really good because the last
two years are gonna be tough and this
yeah this is the what it really boils
down to is we can start getting into
politics and stuff like that where we
can say you know how do you want to make
change stop demanding smaller thinner
bigger capacity because the
manufacturers have to keep up with
consumer demand right and if consumer
demand says it has to be this that's
what happened with the Samsung's
yeah they were trying to push the
envelope of technology too far too fast
see I'm waiting for them to deal with
this kind of stuff I'm waiting to see
solar panels so to speak on a phone on
the back and underneath the screen of
the phone so that you can have smaller
battery capacity but it's always
charging and everything so you can just
put your phone down on the table and it
will recharge assuming that you have
that technology I'm sure yeah very cool
Jensen who a founder and CEO of Nvidia
said at the GPU technology conference in
Beijing that Moore's law is dead because
it cannot keep pace with advancements in
GPU design Moore's law is the
observation made by Gordon Moore
co-founder of Intel in 1965 that the
number of transistors per square inch on
integrated circuits had doubled every
year
integrated circuit was invented more
predicted that this trend would continue
for the foreseeable future
however the pace has slowed down a bit
in the subsequent years but data density
is doubled approximately every 18 months
Wang says that since the CPU transistors
have grown at an annual pace of 50
percent the performance has only been
enhanced by 10 percent
he believes the GPU will take over
according to who eying the top 5
ecommerce sites in China have already
accepted Nvidia Volta GPU architectures
to support cloud services and hgx based
GPU servers have been deployed by both
lenovo and way Wang claims NVIDIA GPUs
are the perfect solution for AI based
application suggesting he believes GPUs
are set to play a larger role in certain
aspects of computing rather than
replacing desktop CPUs completely he
showed faith in NVIDIA GPUs and claimed
that they will be able to replace CPUs
in the upcoming years okay so just but
for anybody who doesn't know GPU versus
CPU what's the difference what yeah one
character not even like it's just like
that is the difference used to CPU and
then just add that and it's GPU that is
the technical term and now everybody who
has no clue what they are going to you
is the central processing unit the
brains of the computer the GPU is the
graphics processing here yes let's go
back in time a little bit Jeff okay
think about computers the evolution of
computing the CPU the brains of the
computer was used for things like doing
spreadsheets yes running an operating
system and doing those kinds of thought
processes didn't need a whole lot of
power realistically in comparison to say
3d graphics so if you're just doing
spreadsheets and Microsoft Office and
surfing the internet the CPU is the
central processing unit the brains of
the computer you've heard of like
dual-core and quad-core and
now hexa-core computers and things like
that so you've got Wow eight cores on
your computer that's fast that has a lot
of power right lots of threads going in
you've got you know eight cores that's
gonna give you you know several threads
to go you know so thought processes of
the brain so we can think about more
than four things at once right but not
more than 10 I think right but it does
it fast so perceptively it happens quite
quickly a GPU was built for graphics
originally so think about gaming and how
gaming has pushed to like 3d and now
virtual reality and the real push is
there to create really really fast what
graphics right right we want high frame
rates if my kids don't have 60 frames
per second on minecraft dad's gonna hear
about it I remember what I was excited
about 30 30 would be awesome
yep okay so think about this so think
about your fork or computer processor
mm-hmm
that's the CPU yep now think about a
Nvidia card you just put it in a ten
seventy in your new computer right the
ten seventy has over 1,900 cores Wow
just get your header right not for a
second
yeah they built this to be screaming
fast 3d graphics and virtual reality it
is extremely fast because it is a
different target of what it does but now
it's evolved to the point where they're
creating architectures based on this GPU
platform to allow executable
applications on this platform to tell
you like AI like AI would be a perfect
example okay because AI has to think
really really quickly in order to be
responsive like a human otherwise you're
waiting for it and it's not realistic so
by using GPUs we now have not just eight
threads of information that we can think
about at one given time very very
quickly alia we have thousands upon
thousands of threads right that can be
thought about by that process
sir at any given time sort of reminds me
of like right brain and left brain
they're two different components of the
computer so but one was built for the
brain was built for what they call the
soul right the gaming you know the power
the where it gets its power from but now
that you can now run things on the GPU
like a server
mm-hmm-hmm and I do my rendering in
blender on the GPU and oh my goodness is
that ever fast right
compared to CPU C and ridiculous and
that's why you wanna have a really good
graphics that's why we didn't cheap out
on the graphics code no right it's all
it's almost become the most important
component I remember it for the longest
time it was the motherboard and the CPU
were the two like the two components you
put all your money into now it's like I
could spend 500 bucks on those two
combined but I got spent 600 on just the
graphics yeah just because of how
important it's become and we did it may
sound like science fiction but
researchers are closing in on the
creation of an ingestible robot that can
perform a variety of functions from
within the human body the International
Conference on intelligent robots and
systems in Vancouver earlier this month
researchers from Switzerland presented a
prototype of a gelatin based actuator
actuators are the components that allow
a mechanism to physically move so while
doctors can already insert machines like
pacemakers into your body
those are stationary and also require
invasive surgery it's unlikely that the
gelatin robots are very tasty but they
would have a wide variety of
applications the researchers in their
paper explained that the components of
such edible robots could be mixed with
nutrients or pharmaceutical components
for digestion and metabolism metabolism
potential applications are disposable
robots for exploration digestible robots
for medical purposes in humans and
animals
and food transportation where the robot
does not require additional payload
because the robot is the food
researchers right as well fully edible
robots would help to study how wild
animals collectively behave the robots
could also take a role of animal prey to
observe their hunting behaviors or a
train protected animals to do predation
and of course once medical components
are mixed into the edible composition
the robots could help preservation of
wild animals or heal the inside of the
human body so neat that's a lot to
digest
ok so anybody who's watched the show
long enough knows that when it comes to
robots I'm a little bit skeptical but ok
so it's a gel casing which should be
destroyed it's not a job casing it is
gel made up right but that's digestible
so when it comes to the metal components
Oh like here's the fact is that they and
when I say they scientists don't apples
yeah folks that are in the know with
this stuff and that are researching this
stuff have been developing digestible
biodegradable electronic components so
we're talking resistors and capacitors
that are digestible right so they're not
made of metal they're made of other
organic compounds so that makes sense
that makes sense but the fact is is you
give yourself a Raspberry Pi
microcomputer and it can do a lot of
stuff but it doesn't i'm not even my
right doesn't i yeah it doesn't do any
physical movement right there's no
physical movement an actuator is
required in order to do the physical
movement so what we now have is
something that can take these edible
components that could make electronic
things like you said you can get a
pacemaker but somebody has to open up
and put it in right so instead let's say
here's the pacemaker which has known
ability of its own and make it mobile
make it so that it can walk his way into
your heart right just have like a little
nano robot that can just go in and maybe
heal your heart maybe your heart just
needs a little bit of extra these these
edible components though are not mobile
right don't put an actuator on it now
all of a sudden they become a mobile
yeah where would it store the infant
like this it's collecting information
potentially if it's for health purposes
where does it store this information how
did like man how do you recover it still
really early in the kind of the
announcement phase of this technology
but I think you know there there are
technologies like Bluetooth and being
able to sync to a mobile device or
something like that is that possible
with organic technology I don't know
could it be like we've heard of
Microsoft using DNA strands to store
data I I would say I love this idea for
a lot of reasons when we come to like
using it for human healing and such sure
I don't love the idea of changing
anything in wildlife like I don't know
so what are you just I don't know I feel
like we can make I guess the we can
consent and they can't so even if it's
an endangered species hold on hold on
you're concerned about impacting
wildlife with a gel robot that would
heal with them when when you look at all
across the globe no no all of the
ecosystems and animals we've destroyed
and your concern about a robot
I think we're getting kind of mixed up
here so yes okay talk about predation
think about domesticated or not even
domesticated but think about a center
that helps animals that are either
endangered or perhaps they've been
injured and they bring them back to
health
now that animal is now acclimated to
human contact
it is able to it's not able to go back
into the wild because we know it will
die right because it will become the
prey right I've made the logically if I
get it so if they were to get to create
edible robots now as a vegetarian you
can appreciate this now we have a prey
that is programmable that the predator
this human acclimated animal that we're
trying to bring back to predatory
instincts can attack this robot and eat
it and it can be digested and it can
have nutrients but they're not actually
affecting other animals in that process
acclimating them back to predatory
instincts so that they can be re
replaced into their original habitat
that's just one idea it's an interesting
concept I am all-in now yeah it's not
like they're that they're feeding
animals these they're like becoming a
Tommy Tommy
I don't strange robots no all right
a couple in the US have admitted
stealing goods from Amazon valued at
more than 1.2 million dollars by
repeatedly pretending that the items
they ordered were damaged in the post oh
no a couple from Indiana have pleaded
guilty to postal fraud and money
laundering the couple faces fines of up
to five hundred thousand dollars as well
as prison sentences of up to 20 years do
not mess with Amazon according to a
local newspaper the Muncie Star Press
they used hundreds of false online added
identities to order popular tech gadgets
from Amazon including Samsung
smartwatches GoPro cameras and Xbox Xbox
video game consoles the couple then
contacted Amazon's customer service
department to report that the items have
a had arrived damaged or
working and Amazon sent out replacement
products for free
they then sold the merchandise to
another individual who resold the
products to an unnamed firm based in New
York the couple and their accomplice
were eventually caught after a joint
investigation conducted by the US Postal
Inspection Service Indiana State Police
and the Internal Revenue Service hmm Wow
so get what kind of trail would they
have to leave like to get caught well
yeah had to be backwards it must have
been that they found a New York final
sale place and then went backwards maybe
you think so the fact that the Postal
Service is involved makes me wonder if
well these folks would have been
receiving a lot of packages right 1.2
million dollars worth so would Amazon a
bit said they're gone hmm
we have 800 customers all living at the
same address or something maybe even
still like that would flag you to a
certain area is getting a ton of I mean
sure like even if you lived in a place
like New York City to turn around and
say you know there's 800 accounts all
having the same issues with tech in New
York City where this has never happened
before like that would be a flight with
some sort or that aside though I mean
you think about their delivery system
when they're bringing it by air and they
got drones and stuff but and how much
more so are people gonna be tempted to
grab that drone and run away with the
product mm-hmm right I never thought of
doing this I never even thought of
returning anything I was on but I bought
a juicer yes and it was a lifetime
warranty juicer so I could have easily
contacted the manufacturer and and just
replaced a part but I asked Amazon and
they said Sean makes it easy
yeah Amazon said well do it this way
it's been within 24 hours of you
receiving the product just return it no
problem I've returned things weeks later
and they yeah epic and everything so if
it's that easy to return it so who's who
who takes the fall it's the sellers so
you think about Amazon you think oh
that's a great online store well no it's
really an online shopping mall let's say
because the sellers that you're buying
from are other companies and they're
selling their products and products that
they warehouse to you as basically a
dropship kind of arrangement with Amazon
Amazon is the storefront and they are
pushing out their products so if I buy a
product as let's say I'm this malicious
user and I buy that product and I claim
that it's broken and they send me
another one
now that company is down Amazon always
favors in the in favor of the buyer not
the seller so I can make up any nonsense
you know something something's broken
and they'll replace it that's Amazon's
policy it's always a buyer is number one
and it's fantastic as a consumer to be
able to have that kind of service but it
really can burn in a case like this
where hey if I was a seller that would
knock me out of business
right so I sent my juicer back yeah but
I wouldn't have had to is that the way
is that the case of a you sent him back
for what / why why did you send it back
I returned it and then just bought a new
one because there's something wrong why
there was a part you needed to replace
yeah there was a part she was a part
that was broken okay so I could have so
that returned it that's different than
buyer remorse by Errol Morris is getting
the juicer and saying hmmm I kind of
wish it was pink right and returning it
for that reason now they can't sell it
again they can't sell it as new because
its users too now but this couple would
get doubles of each thing so how did
they how do they not have to send back
that's my question did I not have to
send back my juicer but just did out of
honesty because I was broken Wow right
yeah I don't maybe you don't have to I
know that I have had a case before where
I ordered some pillow cases they were
coming from China they along yeah and
then they sent me another order well
then I had two of them right right hmm
and I have had similar instances happen
that happened with a mouse for me great
it's like I'm not doing I don't do those
things out of them but now that you make
it yeah I'm like yeah that that has
happened where something doesn't arrive
so then how did they change their policy
in a way to add that extra level of
detection for the seller right I know
that I OtterBox used to have it so that
if your phone case was broken they would
replace it no questions asked as long as
you took a picture of the broken Grayson
centroid yeah so maybe that's the case
maybe you take the picture of whatever
it is proving that it's not usable yeah
and then you don't have to return it
because it's clearly not usable okay
I bought a product for our dog and the
company that we bought it from actually
sent the wrong thing so I contacted
Amazon and said the wrong product was
sent and it was it was arrived directly
from Amazon it wasn't from the like the
private retailer and the response I got
from the individual I was talking to was
okay well just throw that one out we'll
send you the proper one yeah and I'm
like just throw it out you don't want it
back it's not worth it makes me
wonderful this is
this is kind of the case right so there
needs to be a way that saves people yeah
get you thinking caps on big thanks to
Roy W Nash in our community of viewers
for submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-5 TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category-five TV newsroom
I'm Sasha Rickman
[Music]
[Applause]
you
