it's Tuesday March third 2015 and here
are the stories were covering this week
valve and HTC are bringing immersive
virtual-reality to users with the new
vive headset the Linux apocalypse is
looming talktalk is warning customers
about scammers who stole their personal
information Bell Gates is still the
richest man in the world setting your
phone down on the coffee table will
charge its battery thanks to some
innovative tech furniture from ikea and
samsung has had a rough few weeks what
with sharing voice data over unencrypted
connections and then some of their smart
TVs turning dumb these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere if
you'd like to have a cool virtual set
just like Sasha door made us visit cat
five dot TV / green and currently there
is a sale on all your green screen needs
check it out cat five dot TV / green I'm
snap your medicine here the top stories
from the category 5 TV news room HTC is
to release a virtual reality headset
it's part of a tie-up with valve a
leading pc video game publisher the HTC
vive will be paired with wireless
controllers and tracking technology to
let wearers explore computer-generated
environments by walking around their
rooms a test version of the kit will go
on sale to developers shortly followed
by a public edition later this year it
will compete with Facebook's oculus rift
and Sony's Morpheus VR headsets the
machines let wearers view computer
generated 3d environments to give them a
sense of being there the announcement
marks a change of strategy for HTC which
has focused on smartphones Wow so I
wonder you put the headset on and then
your whole room turns into a different
room is that how it works Robbie I like
that idea yeah I accept i wonder if men
would you maybe trip over your coffee
table I don't think you're actually
supposed to run around Sasha I think
that would be a bad idea how this
headset about
the opportunity to do I I just feel like
I'm very classy so we'll see how that
works alrighty the year twenty 38 is
still more than two decades away but lwn
net editor and longtime Linux kernel
chronicler John Corbett believes
software developers should be thinking
about that date now particularly in the
Linux world he raised the issue at his
annual kernel report talk at the Linux
Foundation collaboration summit in Santa
Rosa California this week time to start
worrying he said the issue is similar to
the dreaded y2k bug in that long
standing in that a long-standing
deficiency in the way of some computers
would record time values sorry is due to
wreak havoc in all manner of software
this time in 2038 back in the early days
of unix one 2030 it was almost a century
away time codes were implemented in 32
bits now we're going to run out of bits
in which to tick off seconds
specifically that's going to happen at
exactly three 1407 on january nineteen
2038 so why worry now when we still have
decades to fix the problem corbett warns
systems are being built and deployed now
that will still be in service 23 years
from now linux-based systems are being
put into cars into building control
systems into power plants and who knows
how many other places where they will
just simply sit there and do their job
until time runs out of bits and then
they won't work anymore well it's far
from being too late to address these
issues each year that developers produce
software that doesn't take 2038 into
account only compounds the problem time
will tell how seriously software
engineers take this problem but corbett
says he doesn't see a lot of firm
planning going on she Robbie will that
affect us in any way in that many years
I think we're
it really is a concern as you think
about machines that are created in order
to last they're built to last and so
they put linux on it and that makes
sense you've got Linux machines that are
still in operation from the 1960s 1970s
kind of thing not linux unix though but
the linux obviously didn't exist but
eunuchs which linux is kind of a based
based on has been around for a long time
and there are machines that are still
out there are in operation which is
crazy because the technology has changed
so much but what happens if something
that is based on linux now still exists
30 years from now right what kind of
problems with that car y2k type problems
even worse Oh most likely worse talktalk
customers are being warned about
scammers who managed to steal account
numbers and names from company's
computers an email sent to every
customer and in an email sent to every
customer talktalk said scammers were
using stolen information to trick people
into handing over banking details
talktalk said it had sent the email to
every customer although only a few
thousand account numbers went astray it
is set up a dedicated phone line for
customers targeted by the scammers the
theft of data was on earth when talktalk
investigated a sudden rise in complaints
from customers about scam calls between
october and december 2014 this seems to
be a reoccurring story that happens week
by week where where companies have just
been infiltrated by scammers and their
stuff just goes well you know what like
anything I think they're looking for
ways to compromise your private
information and in this case
confidential financial information if I
can compromise your bank account well
then I can take your money so it doesn't
it seem legitimate when somebody calls
you up and says hello I'm Robbie I'm
calling from such-and-such company and
you're okay yeah I deal with that
company right so your name
name a company right and do you still
live on such and such oh yeah that's so
they're able because they've got the
information to make it seem really
legitimate but but fact is I and I had a
phone a phone company called me just
recently and it turns out it was them
but they were trying to get information
for me I said how am I supposed to know
that you're really the phone company and
their will can I confirm your account do
you still live and I was no I'm not
answering that question but a lot of
people will fall for it we need to be
careful that you don't fall for that
ever even if they present legitimate
sounding information if you didn't make
the call how do you know that it's
really them and in this case like talk
talk they had the information they could
make it seem legitimate and get your
credit card information yes Gary style
yeah it happens a lot Bill Gates has
been declared the richest man in the
world for the 16th time by forbes
magazine's annual ranking of global
billionaires come on now yeah Microsoft
looks so happy about it look so happy
about it the 16th time he's probably
just you know it doesn't even phase him
now just thank pours himself in other
coffees like yeah yeah no he's like Bill
Gates is like they're just man in the
world again no still still still
somebody once told me that if Bill Gates
saw a thousand dollars laying on the
side of the road it would not be worth
his time to actually stoop down and pick
it up in the because he makes more than
that like second by second like he just
makes I guess that's true money not that
it's true that you know let's yeah you
would have why I guess you walk past it
but it won't be worth his time to pick
it up the same way you might not pick up
a nickel I do I think though that he
would have to reach the point where
there is so much wealth that wealth
means absolutely nothing to the point
like if you have that kind of money it
would be like a penny on the sidewalk
you just it's it's so small that
it this was still have all that money
after he's been giving away so much he
is that he has doesn't he have something
with his wife where they're just giving
away almost Bill Gates Foundation yeah
they do all different kinds of good yeah
and they still have so much what a crazy
problem to have Microsoft founder once
again beat Mexican businessman carlos
slim's he did not be fair he didn't
actually beat him mr. gates net worth
rose by just over three billion dollars
this year to 79 billion dollars just 1
billion dollars shy Bill Gates you'll be
there at the 80 there are record 1826
billionaires in the world forbes said an
increase of 181 in the past 12 months
mr. gates has now been on the top of the
list for 16 of the last 21 years
legendary us investor Warren Buffett
regained third place in the list with a
net worth of 70 2.7 billion dollars
congratulations to both of you furniture
giant IKEA has unveiled a range of
furniture fitted with wireless charging
spots for mobile devices the home smart
range will initially include lamps
bedside tables and a coffee table as
well as individual charging pads for any
surface IKEA has used the wireless
charging standard Qi which is also
supported by Samsung and its latest
handset the s6 the Swedish furniture
firm will sell charging covers for
incompatible iPhones and Samsung models
environmental group Friends of the Earth
urge caution over the recyclability of
such products IKEA said in the statement
that it's wireless charging products are
easy to fraction at the end of life and
expands on that by pointing out by
adding wireless chargers to home and
office furniture we minimize the amount
of separate chargers needed which does
make sense except if your charger is
embedded into your safe side table and
your charger it gives pooched then all
of a sudden you need a whole new
I'd table consider just all a new
charger yeah I guess so if you're really
relying on it yeah I don't know I I
would be interested maybe in actually
buying one piece of furniture that would
charge my phone no I wouldn't outfit my
whole house or anything but but I I
don't know because I kind of feel like
if I was going to set down my phone to
charge it on my bedside table well
that's where the cable is and i plug it
in I leave it there so it doesn't make
any sense to me to have yeah but
everybody's thought but then everybody
in the family's phone could be on the
table then you don't need lots of course
oh so you don't have to have like the
whole Griswold family Christmas kind of
rig of electrical outlets exactly I
actually I really like the idea I want
to be able to charge everything like on
the coffee table which would be funny
because you come in and your coffee
table would be like stacked up you've
got phones everywhere there's ikea would
have been smarter to have like a
charging drawer and all of its furniture
so that everything just is hidden away
actually have to put it away for once
yeah a little charging or a time those
for your phone it'd be good to to get on
a plane maybe I mean IKEA doesn't make
planes they just probably for the best
but to get on a plane with your daddy
yes profit full this aliens Jeff yeah on
a plane by ikea what up boy my goodness
hey I like the direction it's gone we'll
see a problem during a server update
left many samsung smart tvs looking dumb
this week affected sets were unable to
connect for two days meaning owners
could not use their more advanced
features the problem is now fixed
samsung said it follows a series of
issues for the firm in recent weeks
which admitted that it sets for sharing
users voice data before opening
investigation into why its TVs were
adding adverts to media played via
third-party apps in a statement released
on thursday samsung said that it
conducted its regular update of the
Smart Hub sir
for last Tuesday during this process it
was reported that some of our customers
in certain countries encountered
difficulties connecting their smart TVs
to the server the difficulty was caused
by errors and matching the country code
with the relevant server and the issue
has now been resolved the company said
research analyst Paul Oh Donovan said
these are new and more advanced than
what we've had in the television market
before they take some time to settle
down maybe within the next year or so
yeah I guess that no see it when I first
heard the story I thought that I had the
problem that they had but it turns out
that I just have a very glitchy smart TV
because it doesn't always connect but it
had it wasn't out for two whole days did
you speak to it I don't tell it that you
want it to connect like it sweet well
listening it's listen it's listening
everybody's listening when I speak to it
wow what a paranoid schizophrenic must
think at this point the TV is listening
to me for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias is the category 5 TV
news room at newsroom category 5 TV for
the category 5 TV news room I'm Sasha
terminus
