hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie and my name is Jen and on
today's show we're gonna hang out on
Solomon's porch so stay tuned
[Music]
hey and welcome back so glad you tuned
in to another episode of new every day
we're coming back to our act series the
Acts of the Apostles we kind of took a
break when we went on our trip to
Tennessee which was amazing yes and
right now it's you know after Christmas
we're in the February maybe even a
little bit of March a little bit of
March yeah by the time these these air
yeah yeah and so here we are finishing
off chapter five and so we're gonna just
pick right up I'm reading from the new
century version and so we're gonna start
in chapter five verse 12 and it says the
Apostles did many signs and miracles
among the people and they would meet all
together on Solomon's porch none of the
others dared to join them but all the
people respected them more and more
people men and women believed in the
Lord and were added to the group of
believers the people placed their sick
on beds and mats in the streets of
hoping that when they went that when
Peter passed by at least his shadow
might fall on them
crowds from all the towns around
Jerusalem bringing their sick and those
who were bothered by evil spirits and
all of them were healed the high priest
and all of his friends a group called
the Sadducees became very jealous they
took the Apostles and put them in jail
but during the night an angel of the
Lord opened the doors to the jail and
led the Apostles outside the angel said
go stand in the temple and tell people
everywhere about this new life when the
Apostles heard this they obeyed and went
into the temple early in the morning and
continued teaching so I think well we'll
pause it right there now you might be
wondering why did you call this hanging
out on Solomon's porch and just to give
a little bit of background in the Old
Testament King Solomon built the temple
and then when Herod rebuilt it he
created in one of the entrances over one
of the entrances I want to say a covered
area so it's where there was more shade
so
good for teaching okay and so that is
called Solomon's porch or I've heard it
called Solomon's colonnade yes same
thing one is NIV one is new century okay
so it all depends on what what version
that you're reading from okay yes so
when we talk about hanging out there
it's because that is where the believers
would go and meet together like that's
where the center of worshiping God was
was the temple so now who I'm always
kind of surprised in reading that they
were like temple guards right and the
Pharisees and Sadducees had a lot of
power there and could order people to be
apprehended or guards to do certain
activities within the temple so were
they kind of like the administrators of
the temple and all that went on there
and like were they responsible for kind
of keeping an eye on what is taught in
the temple
well Pharisees were like the devout
believers they were the ones that kept
all the laws I would say they they were
your devout followers of God they knew
what the law said and they kept it so
people wanted to be a Pharisee like they
they would look up to these men who were
were teachers and keepers of the law and
so in the time of Jesus it was a good
thing to be a Pharisee like just because
they were so devout and it was when
Jesus came he said it's not about being
the vow to knowing the law it's about
knowing me because I so he's saying you
should have seen that I am fulfilling
the law right if you know it so well yes
but they wanted to keep their their
rituals and their teachings and they had
laws about how to keep the law like they
the law themselves were in the Old
Testament and then they would sort of
set up like cushion cushion laws yes so
okay we're not going to break the
cushion law because then
you're one step closer to breaking the
real life yes and so they had like 400
plus other laws to follow and so that's
why to be a fair see you were actually
very much revered like wow these are
holy men and yet Jesus came and said no
you're following the rules you're not
following God because he said they're
like like whitewashed tombs like you can
be totally sparkly clean on the outside
but inside you can be dead yes and not
not have the regenerating life that
comes from Christ and believing in him
which is what the Apostles were offering
these people and so when they would meet
on the porch to talk this was the words
of new life that they were sharing right
yes and so you have this budding of well
you have one teaching which is Jesus has
come and he has fulfilled the law and
that's what they're teaching right but
the Pharisees didn't accept that so you
do very much have this budding of heads
and because the Pharisees were the
ruling party if Pharisees believed that
people could be raised from the dead and
Sadducees were more of the parliamentary
people and they did not believe that you
could be raised from the dead and in
Jesus's time they it was the Pharisees
who had more control from what I
understand and then the Sadducees then
later on had a little bit more control
but we're not necessarily religious
based like they they had they did not
believe that you could be raised from
the dead but the fair but the Pharisees
were much more like law based whereas
the Sadducees were more into the
politics okay that make sense of things
that's why they're sad you see see cuz
they didn't have anything wrong and they
didn't believe that you could be raised
from the dead
that's sad okay so the Apostles are
there and people are bringing their sick
out to the streets and laying them on
beds and couches that even the shadow of
the Apostles would fall on them and I
kind of thought like
man it oh that kind of seems like way
out there right like people aren't
coming to our churches and laying people
who are sick tool out the Christians
shadows to fall on them know that they
might be healed but then I thought to
like is it is it their act of faith hmm
they are stepping out in belief that
they are proclaiming the truth about God
and bringing my sick family member here
to be healed hmm I don't know I always I
find these incredible things and acts
and say well like well why doesn't this
happen today right and it's interesting
because it only says Peter it doesn't
say any of the other apostles right and
it yeah it says the Apostle so you're
assuming that it's all of the Apostles
right well but why was it hoping that
when Peter by at least his shadow might
fall on them and so I always found that
interesting that it was it was Peter so
what was it about Peters shadow or is
that just well I have to believe because
it doesn't mention any of the other ones
it says their people were all healed but
it was Peters shadow they were hoping
well he me it does seem like he was the
most outspoken after the day of
Pentecost he has the first sermon and
then you see him you know doing a lot of
the of the speaking and having authority
and Dan sword so I don't know if maybe
he was kind of seen as like the leader
the leader well that could be very true
and what I also find interesting is that
they were exactly where they were
supposed to be like we talked we talked
about you know where do people go to
hear about Jesus and we laugh because of
Christmas and Easter Christians who come
Christmas and Easter but they come
knowing that that's where they're
supposed to be like that's where they're
gonna hear about Jesus right and so the
Apostles were exactly where they were
supposed to be if people wanted to get
close to God then they're there tell
them they are in the temple like it only
makes sense that the Apostles were there
because they are one command
to be there they would meet together
that's where Jesus did his teaching and
and if people wanted to get close to God
often they would come to the temple and
they would offer sacrifices so here
the Apostles are exactly where they're
supposed to be so people who are coming
to hear about God which is interesting
because Jesus would go and teach in the
temple mm-hmm but then he would also say
just possible come let's go to nearby
towns and tell them about the fact that
the kingdom of God has come because
that's why I've come so it's like you
would speak in the temple about God but
then also go to the surrounding
communities and and the early church is
kind of doing that too they're teaching
in the temple but then later on and
we'll see later in the next couple of
shows what the impetus of that spreading
was but then they went into engineer by
towns and then consequently all the
world and I think that in the church now
Jan that there is a role for that that
we need people who are going to be
solidly teaching the truth about Christ
in the church so when we bring people
into the church family and into
activities there there's consistent
teaching that this is this is the true
word this is the life that we're called
to live but then in the next step to go
out into the community and not just stay
with behind our church walls so let's
think about that and we'll be back right
after these messages
Jeff Weston GEMA you're building a
brand-new beautiful website
what aren't you but you're a terrible
actor
what the swear acting comes into play I
don't know you're supposed to act okay
are you building a really cool website
you need hosting one of the things about
a hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
that's true how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are gonna get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name so your own con dice to put
that amazing website that you've been
working on on there if you run if you
want to build a wordpress site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash DreamHost just
don't put that on the papers on just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're gonna find five
dollars and change per month go to cap
five dot TV slash DreamHost hey and
welcome back we are picking up talking
about hanging out on Solomon's porch and
the Apostles in
chap there are five of packs are healing
people and doing all sorts of amazing
things that teaching is on Solomon's
porch and we're gonna read here now at
seventh chapter after at verse 17
chapter 5 that there's some people not
very happy about it and we read here
that then the high priest rose up and
all those who are with him which is the
sect of the Sadducees and they were
filled with indignation and laid their
hands on the Apostles and put them in
the common prison
so it's the Sadducees it's interesting
right they're the ones who are like have
that political yep
persuasion mm-hm and they also don't
believe in the resurrection from the
dead
and here the Apostles are claiming jesus
is risen from the dead mm-hmm and we are
doing these works in his name a dead guy
who is now living so of course there's
the rub there verse 19 says but at night
an angel of the Lord opened the prison
doors and brought them out and said go
stand in the temple and speak to the
people all the words of this life what
does your version say everything about
this new life ok interesting so what are
those words of new life like well what
was the thrust of their message we see
them doing these these acts of healing
and driving you know keep driving out
demons yeah well what are the words of
the new life that they're sharing I
think that's the gospel news that Jesus
has come like the Messiah has come and
at that that veil has been torn between
of what separated people and they can
now have relationship with God they
don't have to offer the sacrifices
anymore they don't have to have the high
priest does not have to go in behind you
know and offer that sacrifice once a
year you know the atonement and Jesus is
the atonement lamb and that's the good
news like they can have a relationship
with God on their own he's the
fulfillment of the law and so it's
what's interesting is
my my verse 17 says the high priest and
his friends became very jealous and
jealousy is the fear of losing something
okay
so I think that they got all miffed
because they're like whoa like people
are joining their group like so that
means a couple of things one less money
for the high priest and the temple taxes
and potentially but also they didn't
want to cause any uprise in Jerusalem
and because if they if there is an
uprise but specifically between two
religious sects sex it's it's a hard
word to say religious groups then the
Romans would come in and squash it right
and there won't be anything right so I
think the high priests here thought okay
got rid of Jesus like what what's the
deal like I thought we we squash that we
did away with this and then here are
these men who are continuing to preach
about this man named Jesus so I find it
very interesting that they put them in
jail out of jealousy out of a fear of
losing like it's and it goes back to you
know what Jesus was taught teaching like
you hear you hear but you don't hear in
your heart like you hear oh I'm saying
like it says those who have ears let
them hear but they weren't hearing like
they are more concerned about losing
their rank and their their place in
society than actually hearing the Word
of God
well what's also interesting is that yes
they were fear there was a fear of
losing rank but I think with what the
apostles were proposing with this new
life it would shake up everything that
was familiar to them mm-hmm right so all
like the religious institutions and
sacrifices means of praying to God of
hearing him like what their culture was
based on
was their religion yes so when someone's
purporting something that's gonna shake
up everything you know I can see why
there would be a lot of pushback
especially for those to whom there's
some kind of financial gain from the way
that things are already set up but yes
but I can I can I can get that you know
even though when I've spoken with other
Christians maybe who have experienced
God a little differently than I have my
first reaction isn't necessarily only
tell me more about how my my way of
doing Church and and interacting with
God can be different it's kind of like
oh that's nice but this is working for
me but does it really like do I want
words of new life yes am I really
willing to learn about something new
that might shake things up mm-hmm I
think that's that's a great session are
we will are we willing to actually you
know hear someone's story and and
receive the truth of their story and how
they've connected with God or are we
more like yeah I'm glad you met God that
way yeah because it can be a little
scary sometimes because it's like you
know oh what does that mean for me right
and am i excuse me is there gonna be a
more of an expectation on my life like
someone in my family shared a story with
me of this guy from the United States
who used to be like a priest of Satan
right and legitimately had influence
over his community and other people by
by his relationship with Satan like
would talk to him and engage with him
and then do all these crazy things and
murder people and and then he got saved
and came to Christ and now he's sharing
with the Church of how you can pray
effectively against the spiritual forces
of evil and you know what sometimes I
don't like to talk about that because it
makes me realize that maybe my prayers
are not what they should be hmm for my
own family for my own community for my
church and so I was like oh that's nice
oh that's kind of
should I think about this a lot more
like what I do with it
interesting and yet I think what we do
with it is exactly what the Apostles did
like the angel busted them out of jail
which would have been amazing there's a
lot of door busting I know X and then I
love the fact that it says open the
doors of the jail let the Apostles
outside the angel said go stand in the
temple and tell the people everything
and when the Apostles heard this they
obeyed they went in the temple early in
the morning and taught yeah like that's
it that's it they wait I'm just going to
do it they just went and did it
yeah and how hard would that be like
they just got in prison but really if if
the one of the worst things that could
happen to you already happened and God
busted you out you know I can do it and
isn't that interesting like a saga has
continued to come to my head over and
over and over again is a song by don
moen God will make a way where there
seems to be no way he works in ways we
cannot see God will make a way for me he
will be my guide hold me closely by to
his side yeah like I can never remember
the last two lines for love and strength
and each new day he will make a way he
will make a way I think you can google
them but it's like God will make a way
where there seems to be no way when we
choose to obey which is like they were
where they were supposed to be and they
were teaching people about Jesus which
is what they were supposed to be doing
and people rose up against him which
Jesus said would happen and that got
thrown into jail which they knew were
gone it was going to happen like
everything was going according to plan
so it should not surprise us that an
angel of the Lord would show up and bust
them out and yet it does like it no I
have probably read this passage 35 times
and yet it doesn't surprise me as it
should like like in the sense of wow
like could you imagine I'd just read
eyes oh yeah names little the Lord busts
of the mountain I keep reading the page
I'm like an angel of the Lord
busted them out like well like it's
surprising and yet it shouldn't be
surprising like it when we read it we
should be like yeah God now is it
because like in your heart you think
it's not for today no I think it's I've
just read it so many times that I'm it's
just like oh yeah I needs a bus of them
out yeah an angel bus next okay let's
just keep reading it's like and and what
did that even look like what did the
angel look like and how come the guards
didn't know or like we're the guards
sleeping or was this I have heard in
some some jails where the jail was a
part of a person's home and so the
jailer would literally go to sleep at
night right so they'd be locked in and
leave them and the jailer would go to
sleep so it makes sense like that could
have been an option of why there weren't
necessarily guards there I'm that's a
guess but the Apostles were exactly
where the Apostles needed to be
everything was happening exactly how
Jesus said it was going to happen and
yet it goes back to that the passage in
Psalm 34 37 where I've never seen the
righteous forsaken like when we are
right with God
we're not Forsaken and it sounds like
you know as I read this and I'm just
giving back to Shadrach Meshach and
Abednego - they said you know we're not
gonna bow down in worship and if God
wants to save us God will save us and if
he doesn't we're okay with that - and
this is very much reminiscent of that
yeah like we're gonna do what God has
called us to do we're gonna teach we're
gonna heal we're gonna cast out demons
you're gonna get upset with us you're
gonna throw us in jail alright so yeah
so be it and so we want to encourage you
to think about that this week one are
you where you're supposed to be are you
like they were supposed to be at the
temple teaching so are you where you're
supposed to be and are you doing what
God has asked you to do
and do you believe that he'll see you
through no matter what so on that note
we're going to pray so Heavenly Father I
thank you so much I thank you so much
that you have never seen that I have
never seen the righteous forsaken or
their children begging for bread that
when we are where we're supposed to be
and when we're doing what yours you have
asked us to do then you will see us
through and you are faithful so father I
pray for every person that's listening
today that you would challenge them with
those questions he challenged us with
those questions are we where we're
supposed to be and are we doing what we
should be doing so father we we thank
you for your word thank you for how it
speaks to us lord help us do what you've
asked us to do in your name amen amen
thanks again for tuning in and thanks
Jen like I feel like every time we do
the show I learned something and just
really enjoy this time together so
thanks to all of our partners if you
want to go to our website new every day
TV click on our partners link and you
can see all the amazing organizations
who are supporting us and if you would
like to make donations as well to help
keep this show going we certainly would
appreciate that and we hope that you
have a wonderful week and we're gonna
see you back here next week
as we come to a wonderful week see you
later
it's clean Wow
you
