hi everyone and welcome to new every day
my name is Kari and my name is Jen and
on today's show we are in part two of
the winds of change and to be honest I
don't like change
what I don't shocker I said I know such
a shocker so the question is how do you
feel about change this is new every day
with Jen wagon and Carrie Webb
[Music]
hi everyone thanks so much for tuning in
again to new everyday and if this is
your first time watching welcome there's
a new everyday we're so glad this is
just Jen and I sitting down having a
chat opening the Bible talking about God
talking about life and that's that
that's what we do that's what we do
because we actually do this quite
regularly without a camera turned on and
so someone came up with a great idea of
hey why don't record those and we're
like okay okay and here we are and we've
been doing it for several years now and
coming up finishing up three years and
you're not crazy around Easter and we're
so grateful and I feel like I've learned
a lot just sitting and chatting with you
and stopping to think about what we're
reading and and having an intentional
dialogue about life and about God and
how the word applies to our everyday
life so we're talking about the winds of
change and certainly that applies to
everyone's life that we have to face
change in our lives sometimes
comfortable change sometimes
uncomfortable change and what we kind of
were asking ourselves as we stepped back
is how do I actually respond when change
is put in front of me or when I yeah
whether that's work whether that's
relationships whether that's something
that God is is teaching us that's new or
different yes and it's interesting Jen I
was I was doing a little bit of research
beforehand and looking at the diffusion
of innovation curve so how do people
respond to change how people respond to
change so it's like it's like a bell
curve right so when you're presented
with a change there are the people who
are the early adopters who are like yeah
that sounds good okay you know what I'm
I'm in I'm gonna jump into this and I'm
gonna change I'm gonna do it that's
usually me if it's a good idea and then
there's yes those so there's the early
adopters and then in the middle you have
the moderate adopters as you come up the
bell curve then you have the late
adopters and then you have the laggers
who are we put your leg in maybe
and then the laggers are they
a long time to convince and they you
know they might really need a lot of
supporting evidence and this is small
it's a small I guess if you're if you're
looking left to right so early adopters
middle adopters and then somewhere in
here you've got this critical mass where
you've enough people have convinced of
this innovative idea that it's going
forward and then eventually these people
down here the laggers they'll jump on
board at some time but they're not as
influential as like bringing the tide of
change but they they jump on eventually
well because it's been proven and you
might be thinking what are they talking
why are they talking about this because
last week we started reading in Chapter
eleven of Acts and how Peter in Chapter
ten had been given a vision that the
Gentiles were to be welcomed into the
kingdom of God and now he's come back to
Jerusalem to convince the Jewish leaders
or how do you even talk about that the
Christian leaders of Judaism because
there's been this transition right so
yes has come Jews have been come
Christians you just have become
Christians and so there's this group of
people there there that are now like the
the hub of the church and trying to make
this new sect of Judaism Judaism
flourish is ultimately because they
would never say they weren't Jews they
they were Jewish people who believed
that Jesus was the Messiah yes so and up
to this point it was a sin to associate
with Gentiles mm-hmm and so Peter the
you know one of the leaders of
Christianity at this point is saying no
God gave me a vision and we're supposed
to be welcome they mean welcoming them
in so last week we talked about being
the change agent and had to be a change
agent and I'm reading it going ah Peter
like yeah well done like on how you
brought about that change of this is
what God has told me there's witnesses
so he brought the witnesses with him he
went over exactly what had happened and
then he made the key points that even
the Holy Spirit is really the one that's
instigating this so how could I be
against it
and so that last portion of the
scripture is verse 22 of chapter 10 says
the men replied we have come from
Cornelius the Centurion he is a
righteous in God fearing man who is
respected by all the Jewish people a
holy angel told him - have you come to
his house so that we could hear you what
you have to say oops I wonder why that
does not sound strange so let that page
let's turn that page and see the problem
is the same part of the page that's what
it's like wait is it does aside verse 18
of chapter left I'm chapter 11 when we
heard this when they heard this they had
no further objections and praised God
saying so then God has granted even the
Gentiles repentance unto life yeah so
you know going over what you said about
the change theory yeah like okay I could
totally imagine being at the Jerusalem
church and listening going like I'd be
listening for some key things okay what
did the spirits say how is this
confirmed yes have we seen a working out
and experience yeah of this so I would
be sitting there with them listening for
those things because I am a late a
doctor if not a you know a lagger like
when a new fashion comes in I am
certainly not the one to jump on it I
want to see if it's gonna be around for
a year or two before I buy anything I
think it goes along with that
whereas Kerry definitely is an early
adopter she sees something she's like
yeah and she does it and she looks great
and I'm like no other people dress me
but she she jumps on the bandwagon and
and it's great and I'm always like okay
I'll just I'll test this I'll wait I'll
see ya one only very rarely am i an
early adopter when I I
touches an iPad I touch first came out I
did have a first generation you did and
that was one of the few times only
because there was a kid in my youth
group he's showing it to me and I'm like
whoa that's really cool
and he's like to want to try and I said
no if I touch it I'll want it he's like
at it just try it
and then I tried it I was like whoa I
and the next day I went to get one you
were on that Apple bandwagon hardcore I
was on it and it was like I use it for
so many things when I went to Taiwan in
2008 I made so many notes on it and I
was like wow this is so cool I'm so glad
I did this and but it was a real stretch
for me because normally i am i late
adopter i need to be convinced yeah and
and often though it's someone's
experience that changes my heart and
that's why we said this in the last show
y story is so important and witness is
so important like i want to hear the
story of you know what the change should
be and then i want to actually see the
experience yes right and so these people
had seen these witnesses that Peter
brought with him so it wasn't just Peter
it was these other witnesses so us you
know I can imagine sitting there
listening to the story of each one of
these witnesses and going okay yeah
maybe maybe that's right but something
I've had to learn is to check my own
heart and say why do I not want change
why does this make me feel uncomfortable
or is this really real and that's a
great question Jen and I wonder if if
the nature of the change itself how much
it's going to impact your life dictates
you know the delayed response or whether
you're going to be an early adopter
I mean if it's to try a new food and
like you've already been trying you okay
so maybe that's not good to say oh yeah
trouble food is usually carry has to say
try this you'll like it I'm Li like and
then you like it and then I but usually
she's the one that like we have a
Vitamix and she's the one that's been
using it for like five or six months and
then I'm like because in the beginning I
was pooh-poohing it and then I was like
okay oh just put it in the appliance
graveyard nope anyways but and then I
started using it whoa this light change
I've changed so but when the change
itself or like the new idea I think
causes some dissonance with some
foundational belief or something that
you hold really dear or is part of your
like traditional way of thinking or way
of doing or pattern of living if it's
gonna upset something that is really
deep rooted in you the respond that kind
of dictates the response a lot of time
yes you know what I mean yes often my
first go-to is no yeah often and so I
have learned to say leave it with me
just leave it with me leave it with me
let me ask the Lord about it and then
the Lord starts changing my own heart
because I've learned that about myself
that I'm not an early adopter yeah I
really do need to be convinced because
stuff is going on and and it is a
security and it is control and how is
this really going to work out and I
don't want to waste
Nino's time or money or energy and and I
want to know that it's really from the
Lord especially in a leadership position
yes I don't want to send my people down
a road that's nice you know what God is
calling us to but what's also
interesting if when you're looking at
change theory sometimes the laggers can
be identified as like a lion like that's
their that's their animal representation
if you will where is like the early
adopters like the golden retriever like
okay come on oh you're he'll be your
friend whatever but once you convince
the lion and they are on board with the
change they can help convince everybody
else because the the change in them can
be so profound and they have that
strength because they're fully convinced
in their own mind yes you know so that's
it sometimes a good thing so as we go to
commercial break how do you feel about
change think about it we'll be right
back
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching hi and
welcome back to new every day
thank you for staying with us thank you
also to our partners who make this show
possible go on to our website new every
day TV click on our partners tab and you
can see how other people are supporting
us and if you would like to support us
there's opportunities for you to do that
through that partners page so we we
thank you in advance and thank you also
to the other people who are making this
show possible so how do you deal with
change it is one of the things that is
always you know people always come to me
with ideas and what do you think about
this and and how do I filter them and
that's probably as someone who I guess
is guarded about change I on okay Lord
how do I feel about this one of the
things I have to think about well who is
who is the suggestion coming from yeah
oh that's true
right and yet I don't want opening yeah
do they have credibility you know they
have influence and and then even if they
are a person with credibility and
influence am I thinking but is it from
the Lord because I'd never want to miss
out on something that is from the Lord
just because of yeah the person that's
bringing it to me yeah and that is one
of the toughest things as our and say it
an instigator of change or a proponent
of change I often have to think about is
okay where is this idea coming from is
it just you know is it from the Lord or
do I think it would be a good idea
because it would just make everybody's
life easier
well no like it really for me
and I know for Kerry - we've had these
conversations so many times like is this
from the Lord like am I supposed to be
doing this because it's what the Lord
wants and yes there is a permissive will
of God where he allows things to happen
because of choices we make but there's
the sovereign will of God - and so often
we pray like your kingdom come your will
be done and so as we read this passage
from acts 11 obviously that was your
kingdom come that was like a god wanted
Gentiles right to come to faith like and
now is the time because of the way the
world was was set up and drew and Israel
was like at the center of civilization
like so many roads pass through Israel
so the news really could be taken to so
many places so God set it up that now
was the time yes and then he set it up
that Peter would be given the message
yeah because he was a person of
influence yeah and then he even knew how
to speak to Peter like he gave Peter the
vision and then he gave him the
experience and then it was and then it
happened three times so in Peters own
spirit it was confirmed that this is
from the Lord so when he went to the
Jerusalem church it was like it's of God
yeah
he could speak confidently he could
speak confident hmm yes and it's like
okay like Lord yeah and that's if you
are having to receive the change because
originally Peter had to receive the
change and then he became the change
agent so like you said the lion right
yeah he had to receive it he had to work
it through himself he had to go through
all of his preconceived ideas like Lord
we've never done that before
yeah and then as the Lord would him into
that he was able as you said to be the
lion yeah right - just say no like this
it really is from the Lord and this is
what we should be doing and he and the
people received that because he walked
with them through and so as someone who
doesn't really do change well that's
what I would need is I would gathered
mean a real confirmation that this is
from the Lord the two or three witnesses
yeah I would need to have the experience
of yeah this is this is true and that's
why it's so important to share story
which we continue to say because it's
like oh she's gone through this
same thing I have okay I now have
confidence that I could receive this
change yes and and and do this yeah and
I think that I've also experienced some
reluctance to adopt at least a sense of
openness to what like a new thing that
God might be doing or like a new way of
hearing his voice because I used to
think okay yes I can we can detect God's
voice and what he's doing through
circumstance and conversation with
others but mostly it's gonna come from
the Word of God that's like our solid
foundation yes it is but initially I
didn't believe that that believers could
hear from Holy Spirit specifically about
people's lives and pray specifically
about things that pertained only to them
like through prophecy yeah and through
different aspects of praying of prayer
but God brought me to that place through
hearing it from different people and
then experiencing it myself and then
being able to pray and hear his voice
for other people specifically yes and so
he kind of like slowly brought me there
by his grace but now I'm like God can do
anything and you are wondering like oh
man is God real in this situation or
like can you speak to me here or does he
really want me to actually love this
person or you know take this person out
for coffee whom I really don't dive with
like I would never hang out with that
person ask the Lord to show you yes I'll
show you cuz he loves you and he loves
the other person and I got a tie a gen
like I didn't I knew that God could
speak through dreams but until I
experienced that myself I was a late
adopter into believing the validity of
other people's dreams that they heard
from the Lord
yes and so often that's what the Lord
does is he gives you the experience and
then you go oh that was real those real
that was real and that's why it's so
important to share your spirits to be a
part of a small group and you know when
you're talking about scripture or
whatever then you can actually well this
is what I had this experience and then
other people are like yeah I had the
same one all of a sudden it's confirmed
you're like God really does speak that
way well if God speaks that way then
maybe he is speaking to other people and
so when they come to me and say you know
I heard the Lord say well I've heard the
Lord say two things - okay well then how
do we actually walk through it doesn't
match up with Scripture does it match up
with experience and how we because I
agree often it's the tradition inside
ourselves yeah that needs to change
there's this dissonance and it's like
okay Holy Spirit you need to do a work
if this is from you then change me and
that's the key don't change the other
people change me change me and when God
says like in Romans it talks about
renewing your mind and you new renew
your mind through the Word of God that
that then the Holy Spirit will bring to
your mind verses of scripture to confirm
what he's saying yes in a supernatural
way and I wrote down a thought just as
we were talking about how as as
Christians who have the Holy Spirit if
we're living in submission to God then
we are living in a state of readiness to
receive what God has and so if the wind
of the Spirit changes and moves in a
certain direction to go this place to
speak with this person to be open to
this people group yes or a new idea then
we're going to be ready for it
yes we've already been in the secret
place we've already heard from the Lord
and the Holy Spirit is ready to confirm
it in our hearts yes so to sum up we
need to be in a place of readiness for
regarding change so when we talk about
the winds have changed being a place of
readiness be spending time with the Lord
like Peter knew is the Lord's voice like
he knew right because he knew what the
Lord's voice sound like so you kind of
spend time you also need to surrender
the Lord like okay Lord prepare me for
change prepare me for what you are doing
and then the courage to walk it out okay
lord help me to walk out what I feel
that you're telling me and believe that
the Holy Spirit's gonna go before
preparing the way yep
so winds of change winds of change be
ready for it
why don't I pray for us sure
father thank you so much that you opened
a way for us to come to you and know you
and experience eternal life through
Jesus Christ and we look forward to that
day when we are going to spend eternity
with you but so much more God you have
sent us Holy Spirit to be our counselor
to bring wisdom and direction and we
want to be so open to what you're doing
and God when you bring a wind of change
may we be ready to receive it out of
love and obedience for you I just pray
this and I pray you're your blessing on
our viewers and our listeners that they
would spend time with you in the quiet
in the secret place to learn your voice
Jesus you save it that your sheep know
your voice and they follow you and I
pray that we would be good listeners in
Jesus name Amen thank you for tuning in
and we're gonna see you next week on you
every day Cheers
catch a new episode of new every day
every Friday morning at new every day TV
we're also on Kodi Roku Plex YouTube and
Facebook or if you're in Southern
California tune in every Sunday morning
at 6:30 Pacific on channel 33 television
for the high desert
