here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom from
the irony file the security researcher
who found the kill switch for wanna cry
has now been arrested for creating an
unrelated malware IBM scientists have
set a new world records during 330
terabytes of uncompressed data in one
Tet tape Weiland has been confirmed as
the default display server for Ubuntu 17
point 10 Canadian ISPs don't mess around
an entrepreneur accused of piracy for
his Kodi add-on website has been grilled
in his home for hours and not by the
cops but by pushy company reps for cable
TV and ISP companies and the US Army has
banned DJI drones over security control
concerns these stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere
now here's another great way you can
support the shows you love for the
category 5 TV network by shopping
gearbest that's the right Jeff cat 5 TV
slash gearbest it's an online store for
the geek streak in you or the loved ones
well of course I mean especially your
loved ones right because cap 5db slash
gear best quite frankly has all of the
greatest tech gifts that you could ever
hope for at rock-bottom prices
does that cellphones you bet you cap 5
TV slash gear best has a wide assortment
of unlocked Android cell phones and
tablets Global compute consumer
electronics those like a greatest
absolutely from high tech watches to
action cameras headphones even virtual
reality headsets cat 5 dot TV slash gear
best have you covered they literally
have it all Jeff literally really it's
like a superstore right from the comfort
of your own chair at your computer
through the interweb
yeah there's no way they have it all
true it's just a bunch of random
electronic sesame what about clothes yep
both men and women fashionable apparel
at rock-bottom SuperDuper prices kinda
like this well look at this coat what do
you think it's a slimming mock leather
jacket I love it it's available for less
than $30 plus free shipping at camp five
dot TV slash gear best yeah alright you
kinda got me there
Wow any other questions for me Jeff now
that the winter is past flying season do
they have any good deals and say cup to
sold mine good Maps well check this out
dude they have everything check out over
500 various drones and not only that
they're available marked down by about
32 up to 63 percent off the regular
price love it
what's website again while you're going
to find gear best on our partners pages
for any of your favorite category 5 TV
shows like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat5 dot TV slash gearbest
that's easy catch five dot TV slash
gearbest that's right
happy shopping
I'm Sasha de Reyes and here are the top
stories for the week of August 9th 2017
remember Marcus Hutchins the security
researcher who single-handedly found and
used the one oak right kill switch well
he has now been arrested and charged
with unrelated malware offenses in the
u.s. not so long ago Marcus Hutchins a
23 year old British security researcher
with the blog name malware tech became
an accidental hero when he discovered an
effective kill switch to stop the
biggest unprecedented wanna cry
ransomware attack that had crippled
thousands of computers the ransomware
spread to more than 300,000 computers
across 150 countries around the world in
May 2017 however this savior was
arrested last Wednesday at the black hat
and DEF CON cyber security conference as
part of an FBI investigation for his
alleged involvement in an unrelated
malware attack much before his wanna cry
heroics
apparently Hutchins is involved in
creating and distributing malicious
software Kronos a Russian banking Trojan
through emails with malicious
attachments to steal users money using
credentials such as internet banking
passwords the US authorities said on
Thursday according to an indictment
released by the US Department of Justice
Hutchins faces six counts of helping to
create spread and maintain the banking
Trojan Trojan Kronos between 2014 and
2015 the indictment alleged that
Hutchins created the Kronos malware and
the other person who was not named later
sold it for two thousand dollars online
the malware had been configured to
access username and password information
on banking websites and was used in
Canada Germany Poland France the UK and
other countries the UK's national
cybersecurity Center said that we are
aware of the situation and this is a law
enforcement matter and would be
inappropriate to comment further digital
rights group the Electronic Frontier
Foundation said it was deeply concerned
with his arrest
well Naomi Colvin from several civil
liberties campaign group courage said
mr. Hutchins did the world an enormous
service when he stopped a wanna cry
attack
so I just want to just say quickly just
if I were his defense lawyer I would say
well yes he did this really bad thing
and it is a really bad thing he did but
perhaps he felt so guilty about it that
he decided to change his ways and
decided to live on the oh that's a hard
light side cuz it would be different if
he did the bad thing after the good
thing are you suggesting that he's Darth
Vader and like in the end like he threw
I die off wait I don't know the end
really
haha boiler alert icon' father so I like
I just feel like like what he did for
the wanna cry wizard amazing it was his
Redemption story
yeah it probably would have been best
honesty is best policy if you said like
in his press conference outside so what
I was doing was redeeming myself you may
have heard of this this Kronos Trojan I
was me and I'm so sorry please okay I
would be like I don't know what to do
anymore my son when he was like six
years old he came downstairs and he's
covered in shaving cream oh yeah
anything me and we're try not to laugh
he's just covered and he says dad I did
a bad thing it's just like okay maybe
that's what he might be lying site in
hindsight yeah oh by the way while I'm
your hero let me tell you a little
something yeah that's tough because his
involvement is in Kronos was very major
like it's not like he was just some guy
he may have been a part of it no he's
like the Creator he is the creator yeah
and he didn't sell it somebody else sold
it for only $2,000 which is sure energy
also it's a tough game where are the
lines where are the line because I call
hacking you can you can hack for the
good and you know what he did with want
to cry fantastic I so has he changed his
ways or is it just another hack well
really Larry just like a mad one's bad
as far as you know our measuring system
goes well that's the thing is that if
you
say that hawkers are like white blood
cells on the internet you know like they
help like they get into places and they
help solve problems like that right
really so it's just like there is
ethical hacking
but then it's like you get into like the
whole like yeah it's sort I don't want
anybody accessing my banking information
except you except me sometimes I forget
my password call this guy he can give it
to you
[Laughter]
scientists at IBM research have created
a new world record for storing over 330
terabytes of uncompressed data on a
single tape cartridge that can easily
fit into the palm of a person's hand
weight a tape 330 billion my groups here
we are we were in the story we use tape
I showed my what a cassette was the
other day blow there my son the same the
shake scream boy yeah you say smart what
is that just just like huh yeah here we
are doing 332 terrible you know and the
thing is I had an eight-track when I was
a kid of course he's that Wow okay this
storage capacity is more than the
world's biggest hard drives the record
set by IBM in collaboration with Sony
storage media solutions can support data
storage densities of 201 gigabytes per
square inch which is more than 20 times
the density of commercial tape drives
that hold data between five gigabytes
and seven gigabytes per square inch what
yeah the researchers showcased this feat
at the 28 magnetic recording conference
in Japan and I was thinking I was going
to go to that I just love it they have a
quadrant called the magnetic recording
conference also held in Japan this is
the fifth time that IBM scientists have
set a world record of tape storage since
2006 when at that time density was a
measly six point six seven gigabytes per
square inch with a total cartridge
capacity of 8 terabytes the last time
IBM announced it had made advancements
in the space was 2015 when the cartridge
capacity was 220 terabytes and 123
gigabytes per square inch the
achievement by IBM comes as a good
new as good news for cloud service
providers who need to back up and store
ever-expanding volumes of information
from big data applications ranging to
scientific research to security and
surveillance videos all the time in
order to develop the new tape based
storage prototype and to achieve the 201
gigabytes per square inch IBM
researchers had to develop several new
technologies IBM made use of its reading
and writing technology with Sony's
sputtered magnetic tape to stir data
sputtering involves codon storage medium
with several nanometers and layers of
different conducting materials including
a five nanometer overcoat of diamond
like diamond like carbon the scientists
also use several layers of nanoparticles
to extend the tape length furthermore
IBM also incorporated their advanced
servo control technologies and
innovative signal processing algorithms
IBM exploratory tape scientist Mark
Lance said this really demonstrates the
potential to continue scaling tape
technology basically at historical rates
of doubling the cartridge capacity every
two years for at least the next 10 years
wow that's really good news for our
customers that could rely on tape
technology it's kind of an integral part
of their storage infrastructure to
really preserve their data in a
cost-effective manner did anyone else
own a vic-20 you didn't oh and did you
on a vic-20
do you remember the cassettes do you
remember the tapes unbelievable well
they're like a few kilobytes if even
that I mean you put that tape in I just
record and it used audio to save the the
data I
I think it's cool like I don't
understand the layers but it's cool that
they have the sputtering thing which
means I think that they can have data
like on layers on the tape some and use
it I would assume that they have to have
some kind of read heads that can read at
different densities yeah
you'd be looking at like 201 gigabytes
per square inch
what am a conference like this like
think about that folks
201 gigabytes in this much space yeah so
it's like nuts in a little piece of
plastic I mean they're measuring ya know
nanometers right yeah like crazy not
sure what that is that's kind like oh
yeah oh that's like like little manager
your finger yeah like gotcha although
always the ultimate plan to go to devs
expressed doubt about making the switch
to Weiland last month with will cook
Ubuntu desktop team leader saying he
felt Weiland isn't ready yet but several
weeks later after a lot of testing a
decision is now in place of 1 to 17
point 10 will ship with Weiland as the
default session if you're an Nvidia user
a big gamer happen to be using hardware
that this next-gen display server tech
doesn't yet play nice with do not panic
although Weiland will be default it
isn't compulsory Ubuntu will still have
an X session available out of the box
ready to roll a click or two away and
that should come as a huge relief for
the majority who feel that Waylon
doesn't currently work well enough to be
a daily driver have you tried a boon to
on Weiland yet what's your experience
been like let us know by sharing your
comments below if you thought American
or British copyright sites were petty
consider the case of Canadian Adam
Lachman who had a bailiff lawyers can an
computer experts burst into his home
seized this gear and grill him for hours
Lachman a self-described tech
entrepreneur hosts the TV add-ons
website which links to add-ons for Kodi
the open source media player suite
formerly known as XBMC typically you
install Kodi on a little gadget that
plugs into your TV so you can watch
stuff from files or streams over the
internet people install add-ons such as
those indexed by TV add-ons
to scrape video from places like BBC's
iPlayer and ESPN and then show them on
their televisions broadcasters and
commercial content creators love to hate
Kodi and it's unofficial add-ons because
the software can be used by viewers to
bypass DRM and region locks to stream
and pirate stuff they shouldn't there's
an ongoing battle against equipment
makers that help folks ripoff material
online and Kodi is often at the centre
of it
the case against Lachman rests on claims
that 23 of more than 1500 add-ons listed
on his site can be used for copyright
infringement amid a civil court battle
brought against him by Canadian cable
giants lawyers and IT experts on behalf
of the TV and broadband broadband
companies his home was invaded in a move
later ruled unlawful first a lawsuit was
filed by Bell Rogers and videotron
against the TV add-ons creator alleging
copyright infringement they then
obtained a court order which allowed a
plaintiff to enter the premises to
preserve evidence in a civil case after
getting the order a bailiff two computer
technicians an independent council to
oversee the orders execution and a
lawyer representing Bell Rogers and
Videotron knocked on the door of Lachman
home and began questioning him 16 hours
later they were still there and he and
had subjected Lachman to many hours of
grilling Lachlan says at this point
there is no choice but to fight at this
point he already he's already $100,000
in the hole for legal fees and he still
can't get his computer equipment and
phone fact just yet because even though
the courts have since ruled him in his
favour the plaintiffs have filed an
appeal Lachman set up an IndieGoGo page
to tell his side of the story and fund
his defense against the telecom Giants
more than $25,000 US has been raised so
far in the meantime Lachlan has
resurrected the TV add-ons website I
will just like maybe mention a little
bit but $25,000 us which is a lot like a
million dollars Canadian yeah
these are people who likely are pirating
shows because they don't want to pay
their cable bill but they're willing to
pay for this guy's defect it's a matter
of ethics it is funny the irony in it I
know I mean Cody can be used for non
tyranny things we have we have oh yeah
we give it to you free exactly so if
it's not cody itself that's the problem
it's the fact that this guy has these
add-ons that can be perhaps infringing
on modular system it would be like
saying yeah you know let's sue Microsoft
let's shut down Microsoft because on
Microsoft Windows there's a bunch of
pirate again like yeah and you can like
download BitTorrent and like board some
stuff and exactly come on
well that's a tie in the infrastructure
like that operator of the sentence it's
like it can be used for negative things
right it's like what a lot of things can
be used for bad things it just it
depends on people right yeah it's hard
it's a double-edged sword in this side
right so I feel like going into a guy's
house and grilling him for 16 hours is
not very Manian move hope they
apologized they probably did people sir
we're so sorry to bother you would you
mind having a seat can I get you
something just the Canadian grilling no
no sorry we misread that they actually
grilled him some pancakes that's right
mate in making the necessary the US Army
has ordered its members to stop using
drones made by Chinese manufacturer s
said DJI technology company limited
because of cyber vulnerabilities in the
products an army memo posted and
verified last week forbids the use of
all DJI drones and even systems that use
DJI components or software it requires
service members to cease all use and
install all DJI applications remove all
batteries and storage media and secure
equipment for follow-on direction the
memo says DJI drones are the most widely
used by the army among off-the-shelf
equipment of that type DJI said in a
statement that it was surprised and
disappointed at the Army's unprompted
restriction on the DJI drones as we were
not consulted during their decision
in the privately held company said that
it would contact the army to determine
what it means by cyber vulnerabilities
and was willing to work with the
Pentagon to address concerns the move
appears to follow studies conducted by
the Army Research Laboratory and the
Navy that said that there were risks and
vulnerability in DJI products the memo
cites a classified Army Research
Laboratory report and a navy memo both
from May as references for the order to
cease use of DJI drones and related
equipment I just watched the Snowden
movie so now I just feel like everybody
spying on everybody I just really just
feel like they're annoyed perhaps I'm
not the right person to comment on this
because probably Henry might be I can go
for hours about this I like that but we
looked we looked at remember the DJI
Osmo yeah yeah yeah it would be affect
yeah I'll be banned well it's funny
because two things firstly Alan it's
like name an electronic device that
isn't built in China or uses like
servers and China things like that
nowadays
mm-hmm but at the same time it's like
you're banning like a device so let's
say like a drone or whatever from like
the Department of National Defense
because it might be used against you but
the thing is is that like we've had like
instances where people can hack into
like their multi-million dollar like
Predator drones right um so it's just
like their main concern is like security
especially when it comes to that because
it's like oh well um maybe the Chinese
military might hack into this or things
like that
well you idgi yeah exactly how much now
I know with the Osmo camera i had to
activate an app yeah so you have like
it's a free app that you download right
what is this app doing that's called
what are in the permissions of that
exactly if you read the small
permissions right because they might
collect like usage data things like that
I've got to go location data yeah
exactly right so like you have
geofencing and things like that right so
and then at the end of the day you have
like your flight logs so like where you
flew how long you flew things like that
when exactly if you're on a military
base and it's like you're doing like a
exercise and somebody hacked into your
account can they see like where you did
stuff things like that
right the thing is that it's like it's
not just DGI though it's like there's so
many other drone companies out there
that have networks drones like this sure
so like you might like see parrot or
like all the other like hundreds of
other operators like creations out there
you know I don't fly such sophisticated
drones but you know thinking about the
cameras and thinking about how you know
the Sony camera has a built-in GPS my
phone has a built-in GPS
yeah you've got you wear a Fitbit yeah
and you know so all of this data is
being collected anyway so yeah it's all
it's all in the cloud somewhere right
and it really is like where are the
servers and it's like other copies of
the data more so than where where are
they because we we pretty much know
where they are they're gonna be where
it's cheap to host it oh yeah and so
what are the security measures that are
in place in order to protect
confidential information and if it's
government data how much control do they
have over the the security of that data
that's thing right like I'm really
anxious to see where the story goes
because it's like our friends in the
military and they took they take
pictures and stuff all the time right so
just like I know it's just for the US
but our other country is going to follow
suit or we'll DG I talk to like the
American military and kind of sources
out like I'm interested to see where
this goes yeah well you hear over the
next little while with egi approaching
them I think about police - that are
using DJI oh it Isis in order to track
down criminals and you know chase bad
guys so it's a double-edged sword find
lost animals at the same time you could
bring drugs into prisons all using
drones not recommending it but I reckon
it would be done it could happen would
be done yeah but again it's double-edged
sword right like it's amazing technology
let's use it for good people and sure
he'll ever doughnuts to people they'll
be nice big thanks this week - Roy W
Nash in our community of viewers for
submitting stories test this week thanks
for watching the category-5 TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight linux
eius and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom i'm
mr. Maeda
[Music]
[Applause]
