what you're a go to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TP or
email us at life and category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Robbie
Ferguson welcome to episode 179 of
category 5 technology TV for februari
the 22nd 2011 179 of the darn things
there you have it hello there work very
quickly approaching 200 Watts exciting
nice to have you here you can join us in
the chat room category five dot TV we'd
love to have you there and certainly
tonight you're gonna want to be in our
chat room because we have a couple of
little gizmos to give away I love my
pole Bobo actually I was going to wear
my vocal plug t-shirt tonight yeah but
we love our pogoplug and we've got two
of these to give away John is actually
wearing his pogoplug t-shirt thankful
for that so stick around you got to be
in the chat room tonight in order to
qualify for that so make sure you are in
the chat room at category five dot TV or
if you are using an IRC client for
example I use pidgin or if you're using
X chat or any of the IRC clients you can
connect to IRC freenode net and our chat
room is pound
category five don't go not tonight we're
gonna be learning too I do I wouldn't
lie to you tonight we're going to be
learning how to create a bare-metal
backup of our entire computer system
using free software so stick around for
that we're also taking more qualifiers
in addition to the pogoplug giveaways
that we have we're gonna be taking more
qualifiers for Wirecast or which we're
going to be giving away very very soon
so stick around we're going to tell you
how you can qualify for that software
and yeah let's take a look at our
website if we can bring that up category
five dot TV we have a poll on our
website right now I don't know if you
want to bring that up and we'll get some
viewer testimonials in tonight as well
just right off the bat but our poll this
week is what is your favorite segment on
category 5 TV and we'd love to hear from
you so make sure you get in there login
to the website if you're not already
registered you'll need to register log
into the website and then you can cast
your vote to tell us whether you love
the newsroom or you love a viewer
question and answer time or what it is
that you absolutely adore about category
5 we'd love to hear from you so far fun
bits and banter is the number one man
but yeah so I thought you know maybe we
just take tonight and we'll just you
know I'll just kind of sit here arik air
so 200 you're gonna spring for champagne
right there you go I'd be a dangerous
owed wouldn't it it's like last week's
the office where they had that
bottomless champagne and they decided to
go out for lunch and it was bottomless
champagne nice not a good idea when you
have to get back to work definitely not
but made for a good comedic half hour
all right
do it could happen yeah all right well
let's see how about a question well
let's so let's hit the viewer
testimonials right off the bat right off
through it yeah your testimonials can
get onto our website category five dot
TV if you'd like to tell us what you
think about the show click on interact
and then you'll see down the bottom
viewer testimonials and this week we've
got a couple in one here comes from
Bjorn Eklund from Hampstead Sweden who
says I used to watch the show often but
I can't see it live because it goes on
in the middle of the night here in
Sweden I love all of your tips and
advice and the fun of the show just one
question though why does the newsroom
look like a webcam while the main show
itself is perfect I feel sorry for
Hillary when the looks and sounds are so
funny otherwise great show i watch all
shows on the weekend after after sending
so that one kind of warrants a response
because Hillary's actually away at
school and tonight she's that actually
away on vacation so when Hillary's away
at school she's been good enough to to
use skype video just to be able to
participate in the show and still
provide you the fantabulous content that
she provides you with the weekly news
but unfortunately the the drawback when
you are at school with you know shared
internet in the dorms and everything
like that and heard a couple of nights
for the bandwidth just wasn't working it
just wasn't working out and you know the
news is kind of jagged like that and
it's largely because you got you know
how do you tell kids on the network okay
I'm going to do the news now so you know
close all your peer-to-peer programs and
stop streaming video off of youtube and
just give me the bandwidth it just isn't
going to happen in that know that shared
internet situation so so Hilary has been
good enough to to still participate in
the show and we love having her here
regardless of the the lower quality that
comes from using low bandwidth and the
skype video connection but she will be
returning to us in the spring right here
in the studio in beautiful HD glory
so that will be nice you got one there
for me okay here's one from John crisp
ok John Texas I don't think they have
snow there this week did it they did a
few weeks back anyway ok hi Robbie and
crew glad to report something is working
yeah that was asking you for help for my
current trauma hey I never could get
synergy working so i downloaded
virtualbox current version installed ok
the earlier version didn't it installed
fine with my ubuntu a 10 point 10 and
just worked great i even found out how
to install guest additions now i have a
screen size that's acceptable it runs so
so so fast Trey took me that somebody in
the chat room was asking if I'd learned
how to pronounce things this weekend no
I haven't but I'm here everything I want
so fast i think is what we were trying
to say i have installed it and it just
works go figure system win7 64bit eight
gigs ram i am a happy a boon to a camper
no thanks Robbie for the tips on
VirtualBox that is John in Dallas John
great news thanks man and yeah cool do
who have the experiencing VirtualBox for
the first time to tonight as I mentioned
Hillary is away on vacation so Becca is
joining us from the newsroom I'll let
her wrath that's known in university
circles is reading week great no
literally like she's started reading
with oh is that yeah yeah well then I
don't know in a few years you may be
reading it's possible on the beach yeah
getting a tan hope you're having fun
hell she's not really watching tonight
cuz she's on the beach are you sure
there you go Sobek i'll get becca to
tell us what's coming up in the news
coming up in the newsroom over 10,000
euros were raised in only one day of
fundraising to support Libre Office
fedora and open Seuss are giving up on
unity Solar Flare activity is concerning
government advisers about our reliance
on susceptible technologies
thought control wheelchairs and bionic
limbs mean new freedom for the paralyzed
disabled and amputees stick around for
the latest news in about half an hour
from the category 5 TV news room expect
another viewer testimonial here comes to
us from Dennis Finnegan in Illinois who
says Robbie is the best I was gonna read
that I was gonna don't get more
enthusiasm fast oh it's a show I'm sorry
that's why the professor's come in handy
to see that last night who solved in 30
seconds a problem I had been having for
months once he explained in
understandable terms what auto was all
about I realized what the fix was and
was promptly able to sign into the chat
room and that at times I use win7 but I
do have a boon to on a netbook so all is
not lost episode 177 was great keep up
the good work Ravi Eric and the gorgeous
Hilary sincerely Santa's friend again
aka math man 47 great yeah I remember
you joining us in the chat room there
and fantastic glad to have been able to
help Louie the Spanish version says
thank you for getting me the answer for
my remote control of Boone to 10 point
10 htpc it helped my wife and
six-year-old kid I love the new site
where is the perfect boom to script and
will you ever get put on the roku box
yes to the roku box have been in touch
with them and they've sent me the
service development kit and talking to
them about possibly getting access to a
development version of the Roku so that
we can get to get working on that
otherwise we'll have to wait till we can
buy one but we'll see how that goes but
that's definitely something we're
working towards and glad to know that we
were able to help you and perfect boom
to script is if you go to our website
category five dot TV that's the quickest
way to get there go right to the
homepage I'm kind of on the viewer
testimonials page here but right back at
the home page down at the bottom which
is also incidentally where you're going
to find a viewer poll over here on the
right but over here on the left you see
awesome links you've got the newsroom
you got the Weeki you got perfect boom
to
all you have to do is click on that
you'll be able to get access to the
perfect boon to a script you'll be good
to go okay cool Wicky Wicky Wicky Wicky
Wicky yeah we've had that discussion
okay we have but we never solved it and
I'm thinking Louie the Spanish version
should probably be Louise Louise
something closer to that anyway look
here's one from my invincible mutant hey
Mitzvah mutant now that that's a name
like there you go hi Robbie
congratulations for the well done on the
website Cheers I can see improvement in
terms of contents for your TV program
your program is useful for a new boo to
a geek like me to follow up with the
news and updates and most importantly
seeing you guys online is interesting as
you always present yourself with a wide
smile thank you very much keep it up
cheers nice to have you here and if you
would like to submit of your testimonial
all you have to do is hop over to our
website category 5 TV click on interact
and your testimonials is down at the
bottom of the menu it's not came to us
from Manchester cheers yes nice to have
you here so let's let's hop over to
viewer questions and get a couple of
those in today I know we've got a
reasonably busy night as we always do
because we try to get enough you know
get some good information to you but
certainly viewer questions you can email
live at category five dot TV to get your
questions in ok well this one is from
Lance he lands elance running Ubuntu
64-bit 10 point 10 when using cheese cam
to record a video and saves as augment
what apps would your recommendations for
transcoding it two different video
formats and familiar with trans Megan
and handbrake thanks great show cheers I
would probably use an encoder just from
the terminal to do that you can just
bring up your terminal
and let's see what we do what I'll do
I'll post this the command itself into
the the show notes for episode number
179 and basically what you can do is
once you've got that ogv file here's a
did that's em enclosure at minn kota
rate okay just em encoders the command
which you may need to install but it'll
prompt you if you don't have it and you
can go sudo apt-get install just follow
the directions so LGV is my OGG file so
that's like what the file has been saved
us from cheese and then the output video
format the codec is going to be xvid
output audio codec it's going to be mp3
lame and then xvid KU ops this is that
your options we're just going to do a
single pass on the video you can change
that to two if you want to do dual past
and then dash 0 means your output file
it's going to be I just put test dot avi
so that can be whatever you want to call
it in the world you can get you over to
passes yeah for quality if you're doing
that if you're doing a video where you
want it to be uber quality than two
passes is going to give you more video
data it's going to possibly produce a
better output but I think you'll
probably find that with one pass with a
cheese cam video it's going to be just
fine because that's just so you know
that's your webcam doesn't need to it's
not like your encoding like home movies
kind of thing we were in litter HD or
anything I
that you let me go there you have it
Lance ya what I'll do Lance though is if
if you want to check the show notes for
episode number 179 i'll post that that
command there to convert OGB to avi just
so that it's a you know it's playable in
on more systems especially on windows
but then of course then people start
saying oh I don't you just install VLC
and listen that's cool too and sort of
legions yeah so to answer the question
there you go em encoder would be the way
that I would go about it okay well we
have another one here from DW Mills hey
DW mlz and mythbuntu 10 point 10 and
debian lenny ok hello i have several
computers on my personal network running
a mix of debian lenny and mythbuntu 10
point 10 what I would like to know is
should i install and run a separate
firewall like fire starter even though i
am running linux and my computers are
connected to a rabbit if so do you have
a firewall suggestion thanks I've
learned a lot about linux and open
source by watching your show ok and that
came to us for the DW mills mmm well if
you're behind a firewall then
essentially your it depends on how your
setup first of all if you're behind a
firewall to the internet your your
computers are not seeing beyond that
firewall as long as the firewall has no
dmo z's what is called demilitarized
zone dmz demilitarize i'm sorry DM 0 z
that's a directory service well yeah
sorry all these acronyms spinning around
in my head so as long as your firewall
is set up as a no net nat router that's
going to stop any connections you know
people trying to maliciously access your
computers or whatever because they your
IP address is only going to resolve to
the river itself it's not actually going
to resolve to each individual computer
unless you manually open up ports so
kind of putting the stop at the internet
level but then the question that you
have to ask is if you have wireless
internet in your home that may be
opening you up to security
vulnerabilities where people may be able
to access your your files and things on
your home network even if you have say
WEP encryption installed on your router
which is easily hacked so if you have
Wi-Fi you basically have that potential
in that risk that somebody could be
connected to your land as opposed to the
the one like the wide area network being
the Internet the land being your
internal network if you have Wi-Fi
people can connect to your internal
network if you have an open router no
password basically to connect to your
Wi-Fi anyone can connect to that so then
you if you're going to have that setup
you do need to have individual firewalls
on each system and and then if there now
what's the mix we've got mostly linux
systems here it was there was mythbuntu
and vivian Lenny okay so it's mostly
linux stuff that with Windows you can
run into issues as well and I'm sure
it's it could be a problem with Linux
but it's not so much a problem right now
yet I should say but with Windows you
you do run into the problem where
installed applications maybe you may
want to stop them from having access to
the outside world say a virus for
example may have you know if it's if you
don't have a firewall installed on that
on that windows box that is preventing
outgoing access then that could be
problematic as much so as the fire wall
that's protecting you from incoming
accent
so depends on the scenario if you have
Wi-Fi i would definitely secure it up as
best as you can wpa2 encryption or the
best that your router is able to support
I would set that up if you're using WEP
that's an old security algorithm that
has been cracked and is no longer safe
at all so you need to upgrade your your
router or whatever at that point so so
that firewall protects you from people
getting in from the outside world but
not so much the Wi-Fi hope that answers
your question or shed some light on how
how you should approach that so okay
great cheers thanks for the question hey
Dennis Finnegan spire there's another
little oh hey Dennis and once again not
a question um not a question but I
wanted to alert you to a site I see my
take my careful all right yeah so I a
spell it well what I'll do is I'll be
sorrowful for the ubuntu users out there
and it's a hologram i will put it up on
the screen this OMG lublu to hear i'll
do this i've got i got a URL shortener a
URL shortener yeah so you can throw it
on them we can take that big long URL
and just condense it down into something
that's actually easily readable ah cuz
that's a long one it is a long one so
let's see this OMG go to a dog yeah co
uk / 2011 / 01 / don't even go like beer
thank God dash away I'll get it for you
I dash to that's T 0 dash must why do
they like the band sesh indicator that
applets / I think the title says it all
according to math man 47
oh you're are you done I'm done are you
ready are you ready I'm waiting all
right your login to our shortener here
cat5 TV / stop Eric job fell asleep out
there in the chatroom cat5 cat5e v /
stopped Eric I think the title says it
all we'll take you there it says a lot
doesn't it the abuja guide to the best
indicator applet surround cool so this
looks like it's for the upcoming 11
point 0 for the new indicators and
everything cool so I'll leave that with
you and thanks for the recommendation
there Dennis and certainly we welcome
people to to send in their
recommendations if you come across a
site that's cool we will shorten the URL
that one's cat5 TV / stop Eric hey all
one word all lower case light but what
what it's a little harsh thanks John he
encouraged him ok ok hey we have another
Dennis out there there's more than one
down is out there so this is Dennis
Kelly Robbie
I am watching episode 97 come on catch
up oh I know it's been a while huh what
was the result of you looking for a
redundant solution for category 5 TV
Thanks mm-hmm you'll find if you if you
watch some of the further episodes there
Dennis an episode of those are redundant
don't know ok it's not what I possible
it's quite possible if you're not
careful than our European friends will
know what it's like when eric gets
redundant well I had up the repetitions
repetitious root department of
redundancy good burger he doesn't even
get it when you do I think Christy does
oh hi Christy by the way hey I suppose
he's here me one good summer that's mrs.
by the way of you yeah alright if you
watch some of the some of the later
episodes there Dennis that we had I did
one the installation of unraid and
unraid is is a fantastic system that we
basically were able to take the concept
of a drobo which is to say using
miscellaneous drives that could be any
size and any speed putting them all into
one device and in this case just an old
pc and connected in I think eight hard
drives of varying sizes and we were able
to create something like a 3.7 terabyte
redundant array with single Drive parody
redundancy so that's unraid i'll post
links for you in the in the show notes
for episode number 179 and certainly I
encourage you to check it out and do
check out some of the episodes where we
actually went through the installation
of creating and building a nun raid
server and putting your drives in and
then getting the software and installing
that and actually booting it up and we
did quite a few demonstrations so so if
you're following through the episodes
from 97 which is you know fairly old
episodes you're talking about episodes
that are going back almost well this
point almost a hundred we yes so two
years yeah like 80 to know what he's got
a few episodes to catch a few a few to
catch up so but but the the device is
still running for us it should be noted
that you know we did all that and and we
actually are still using that that that
very same system and it's never failed
us it's been fantastic i've actually had
two hard drives on separate occasions
crash that needed replacing and we
didn't lose any data so and it just
happened transparently and it happened
without any issue whatsoever and in fact
when they crash I just ended up buying a
bigger hard drive and getting a little
bit more space on my array and then it
rebuilt from parity and we got all our
data and there were no problems so so
check it out yeah it's called unraid
Cheers all right I've got a couple more
minutes another question till the news
yeah hey here's another really nice long
URL oh good maybe I won't read the URL
okay this for John's learnin John crisp
hey John I was having fun sorry okay hi
Robbie trying to get comp is running in
virtualbox and having no luck I'm above
URL the one that I chose not to read is
as close to mine as I found do you
believe it hell maybe we should actually
check out that URL it's like a floor
material up there okay yeah I'm just
bringing it up now okay so
where was I you believe it anyway anyway
you found to get comp is working system
nvidia standalone GE fours 310 I
shouldn't need to update this new card
new dell in October of 2010 VirtualBox
works great I shouldn't complain but I
like compiz tour too I found so many
conflicting scenarios I don't know whom
to trust Thanks well this is John and
Dallas Ellis okay so okay I gather from
what you're saying there that okay
you've installed a boon to as a guest
and you're having trouble getting the
Conchas 3d stuff going right he's got a
window 7 64 bit system so you're doing
things a little bit differently than I
then I do John and that's that's a
matter of choice and you've got windows
as your host operating system anytime
I've set up a virtual box system i'm
using linux as my host and then using
windows as the guest because linux is my
main operating system so i do things a
little bit backwards to the way that
you're doing it so the things that i
would look at first of all knowing that
comp is these are the these are the
special effects all the those cool
effects that you get with your system so
on let's see oh
there we go so there's a comp is effect
for example being able to do stuff like
that and being able to to do some of the
cool effects that we get with compiz
those all require 3d acceleration and if
your computer doesn't have 3d
acceleration and you've got a goon to or
linux installed as a as a host operating
system you're not gonna be able to do
the 3d acceleration so similarly if your
virtual computer your virtual machine in
virtualbox doesn't have 3d acceleration
then you're going to run into that same
problem so first things first we need to
make sure that that 310 card that you
have has the latest and video drivers
and that it's that it's good to go with
3d and things like that and beyond that
then we need to look at our virtual
machine and just ensure one that you do
have the latest VirtualBox guest
additions installed in that machine but
also if we hop over to you know any one
of the systems I've got here go into
settings and go into display you'll see
extended features enable 3d acceleration
so you need to check that off and i'm
not sure if you need the 2d video
acceleration or not but I I would tend
to check that off and you'll notice that
this machine that i installed ubuntu on
defaulted to a twelve megabyte video
card which is absolutely insufficient
for a system that you want to run comp
is on you're going to need 128 Meg's so
your card has to have at least enough
video RAM to be able to support that so
those are a couple of settings that you
definitely need to check in order to
make that work so then boot up the
system see how it works and see if if
it's able to get 3d at that point what
when Yates the looks you wrote i think
that's that's the max it's giving me
there now this is on my laptop i don't
know if it's if it's reliant on how much
video RAM you have or not
that's quite possible look that should
be sufficient yeah 128 will do for you
but the default of 12 is not even close
to going to do it for you you really
need to step that up so but turn on the
3d acceleration see how it goes and
hopefully that will hopefully that'll do
it for you John will tells us 2d will
not work with linux guests no so you get
that it's toggle switch so definitely we
need a 3d right so but again if your
host has any trouble with the 3d then
your guest is going to therefore have
trouble with the 3d so make sure your
windows 7 system has the latest drivers
and everything is configured to be
accelerated and then you can accelerate
your virtual machine and you'll be able
to hopefully get that going with the
latest guest additions as well alright
so good luck John keep us posted i'd
love to hear from you and just kind of
know where that ended up and like i say
that's this kind of the opposite of
anything that I've done because i have
my host as linux and my guest is windows
so i'd be interested to hear all right
we'll we'll head over to the newsroom
and hear from becca stick around after
the news we have we're gonna be learning
about bare metal backups using free
software and we've also got those two
pogrom plugs to give away we're going to
be taking qualifiers for Wirecast for as
well so stick around from the category 5
TV news room
the document foundation announced
recently their intention of becoming a
legal nonprofit to allow it to accept
donations and financial assistance as
well as pay employees and rent without
having to suffer the tax liabilities
levied upon businesses since startup
capital is required they began asking
for donations to reach their goal
florian effing berger founding member of
the document foundation said we have
started a public race for donations the
fundraiser which appears to have begun
last Wednesday is set to run through
March 31st and in its first day of
fundraising fundraising already had
raised 10,000 euros if community support
for Libre Office was ever in doubt it's
hard to deny now if you'd like to
contribute funds to the foundation see
challenge document foundation org some
bad news came across the wire last week
in a bit of a coincidence the
contributors from both open soos and
fedora who were working on unity
announced on the same day they were
giving it up both have cited time
constraints and frustration at some
buggy behavior in implementing unity and
while Fedora would accept help in
implementing unity if someone offered
the guy porting unity to open soos just
wants out and we'll be happy to hand off
his sources to anyone who wants to take
over so it appears that if anyone wants
to test unity at least in the next few
months Ubuntu Ubuntu is going to have to
be the one solar flares which hit earth
last Thursday are raising concerns about
our increasing reliance on electronic
equipment such as GPS satellite
navigation and the computers controlling
smart grids for electricity distribution
due to their susceptibility to the
radiation caused by approaching space
weather according to senior government
advisers who have been keeping an eye on
solar storms and their potential impact
on the technologies we rely on solar
storms can now produce unprecedented
damage on a global scale Thursday's
flare was the biggest in four years and
it ejected billions of tons of matter
travelling out a million miles per hour
towards Earth when it hit our magnetic
field it generated
netic storms and power surges which
disrupted communications and grounded
flights the approximately 11-year solar
cycle is now emerging from one of its
quietest periods in 50 years and is
expected to reach a solar maximum in
2013 when the number of solar flails
flares on the Sun which generate
electromagnetic storms reaches a peak a
call has gone out for international
collaboration and advisors are prompting
governments to take space weather
seriously we'll see if the government
responds with the requested early
warning satellites one device we all
rely on which is susceptible to damage
due to Solar Flare activity is our
computer's hard drive keep an update
backed it back up to protect your data
and always have redundant copies on all
your important files thought control
wheelchairs and nerve control prosthetic
arms are one of the latest intimate
innovations in bionics being discussed
at a science conference in Washington
sci-fi meets reality with the wheelchair
which can be directed by brain signals
detected using a cap fitted to the user
it is the work of scientists in
Switzerland and is part of our efforts
to control machines directly via brain
signals which could lead to new devices
for the paralyzed and disabled the main
focus of bionics to date has been on
providing prosthetics for amputees
prosthetic arms can now be controlled by
nerve signals in the remaining arm which
can be picked up by electors on the skin
I sustain dramatic injuries after being
electrocuted at work opted for the
elective amputation of his left hand
which no longer had any function he is
now been fitted with a prosthetic arm
with which he can grasp and lift optic
objects using nerve signals in his
amputated arm later this year a second
patient will undergo an elective
amputation in favor of a bionic
replacement get the full stories at
category-five TV / newsroom the category
5 TV news room is researched by Roy W
Nash with contributions from gadget
wisdom guru and our community of
worse if you have a new story you think
is worthy of on-air mention email
newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category five da TV news room newsroom
I'm Becca Ferguson thanks Becca now we
did have a little bit of stuttering
there because our stream hit very very
high CPU usage because we've got so much
HD video going at once the video clips
that we were trying to play when things
started buffering there with Becca are
very very cool in that the the the guy
who is being fitted for this prosthetic
arm just has a couple of wires going to
basically what looks like an electronic
bracelet and on the on the table he's
able to control this hand just by
thought and this is or I guess in this
case in the arm case it's by nerve
endings so he's actually basically with
the thought of moving his hand it's
actually moving the robotic hands of
this intellectual movement it's all
electrical impulses from budget but the
elec hand or the Bionic hand is actually
moving but I mean it's not like a muscle
thing it's a nerves and it's that's
electrical impulses yes Wow yeah it's
not reliant on having you know the
ability with two fingers to control a
robotic hand there there could be
absolutely no hand and just by nerve
impulses that say imagine delivering
liberating that could be done but used
than fine too yeah and I think that's
why Becca was saying that about people
opting for this surgery who have no use
of say their hand and where will that
lead who knows what I'll do though
because the the video is very
interesting from BBC i will post a link
to that if you're interested in seeing
more about the Bionic hand and how that
works you'll get a access to that video
i'll post a link in the show notes for
episode number 179 just to make up for
the fact that we weren't able to play it
tonight tonight's episode is brought to
you in part by pogoplug you'll find them
a triple w pogoplug calm and of course
we are also sponsored in part by planet
calypso cat5 TV / clip so for the free
game download and join me in the massive
multiplayer on y on
universe be a lot of fun cool very cool
you've been having a good week I yeah
yeah yeah okay and hey i got like last
week I took a taxi over to the studio
yes your car something had happened to
my radiator looked like now you wouldn't
know this down in Texas but big hunk I
east falls off a car and apparently I
must have run over one off somebody's
car in it oh are you serious that's what
happened yeah yikes so the dealership
wanted about eight hundred and fifty
dollars to replace it and I took it over
to a mechanic that I've been to quite a
few times actually Yuri crimped some of
the fittings and he says I guarantee
it'll probably need to be replaced you
know for some time but here you go it
was less than an hour's labor and I love
the guy now nice oh my arrow look we got
to get this guy's number and like posted
all over the web site was definitely yet
yeah yeah so yeah this is brigid week
good news so your cars running all right
it's it's great getting around and it's
good good hopefully soon there won't be
much ice flying up off those Air Canada
yeah tonight we're looking at a chance
to be able to back up our entire system
here I am booting up into windows XP you
don't see why I moving up into windows
XP I like this yeah like where is this
going where's this going downhill it
looks like a pretty stuck wallpaper you
gonna that is very stock because this
system all right this system is it's
really the only windows system beyond
the broadcast system that we have on our
network and the reason for it is because
we have our bookkeeping software and it
is QuickBooks and it's and the
particular version that we have didn't
run in wine it probably would now
because we have the system and that's
what you know we've been using for
bookkeeping that's it's good and it
works so but what we want to be able to
do is have a backup of that system and
in this case we're using this window
system as a demonstration but that said
this can be any system so imagine your
computer could be you know Windows Linux
it could have dual booting it can have
all that stuff and what we're looking at
tonight is a program called
zilla which you've heard us talk about
in the past but that said having talked
about it we've never actually I don't
believe demonstrated this is meant
clonezilla disk in the intro to the show
that I'm holding up it was yeah until it
was yeah yeah yeah I should have had
that backed up before we broke up it
well but you can get it for free so
tonight what I'm gonna do I'm gonna show
you how we can get clonezilla all right
so all you have to do is go over to
clonezilla dot org i'm going to go there
and we want to have a general idea about
what this is basically clonezilla is do
you remember the old Norton Ghost I do
yeah it was like a piece of software
they let you clone your hard drive so if
you ever had your hard drive crash and
you have an exact copy of that hard
drive on another drive or perhaps burnt
to DVDs if it's small enough that was at
a trade show and the the folks from
norton or semantic or whoever it was at
that point gave me a it was like this
teddy bear but it was a ghost and it was
norton ghost it's very frightened yeah
what was it was kind of a freak but that
software was it was good back in the day
when that was all there was and
clonezilla comes along and they're
they're free it's open source it has the
ability to create backups of your system
that are an entire backup from basically
any file system so EXT three four five
there is no fun you know what I mean
reasor but if their work if there were a
five it backs up your entire system to
an image and you've probably dealt with
an ISO image before for a CD where you
know you get a wound too and it's an ISO
it is an image of the original CD so all
you have to do is download it burn it to
a CD and you have an exact copy of that
see so here's something a little
different we're creating an image of a
hard drive so this can have all of your
programs installed it can have files
that can have your networking settings
all of your you know the way that your
system is configured and it's a backup
of the entire thing in an image
that you can then transfer on to a new
hard drive if something should happen
that said it also supports multi casting
which for educational facilities or
businesses that want to be able to very
quickly deploy new systems for example
you can create a even build a computer
and set that computer up get it working
the way that you want and then create a
clone of it using clonezilla and then
using multi casting with the clonezilla
server edition you're able to actually
then put that image on 40 or more
computers all at the same time so you
can deploy this this computer operating
system along with all your applications
240 computers say in under 10 minutes
and you thinking you know in an
educational facility what that means to
the IT guy who used to have to go around
with the windows XP installer and do
every single computer and with somebody
downloads virus or something under your
system you just you combine a little you
just keep that in the image yeah for
sure and in businesses quite often what
happens and businesses and schools and
government offices and things you buy
more than one computer at a time you're
not buying one computer like like
normally we do at home so in a business
you're probably going to end up buying
all identical computers so as long as
one of them works you create a clone of
that one computer and then you've got an
image that you can use for any of those
computers because they're identical
basically so really really cool stuff
but in a home environment it can also be
used to back up all of your stuff so
that if you ever have a system crash or
anything like that you've got an
absolute copy of your computer's hard
drive so to get clonezilla we're going
to go to clonezilla org and go into
downloads and you'll see that there are
a few different versions there's
debian-based both stable and testing and
then there's a boon to based both stable
and testing on this one's called the
alternative download version
the reason that you may want to go with
you boon to base is because it contains
non-free and more up-to-date software so
the debian based one is based on being
that is based on debian everything
that's included in that is free with the
ubuntu base one even though we moved to
itself as a distro it contains all free
software the there may be drivers or
things in this particular version of
clonezilla which are not free as in
their free it's a free download don't
get me wrong you don't have to pay for
it but they're not they're not free in
that they're not open source necessarily
so some of the code that's used to
create that version it may be more
complete there may be more drivers for
different hardware that isn't available
in the debian based version so the one
that i would want to download for the
sake of usability is the alternative
stable release and when you click on
that it's going to take you to a website
and let you download that ISO image so
we're going to go into the folder here
and there we go with the I so again
there's a CD ISIL right so once we've
downloaded that I so it takes a couple
of minutes it's 139 megabytes I've
already downloaded it just for the sake
of speeding up the shower oh love
windows don't we see restart later it's
gonna reboot on me if I don't intercept
okay good thing we caught that what I
want to do now this computer would click
restore no this was pretty bare bare
bones okay so what I'm going to do just
so that we can eventually come back to
this system and see that something has
happened I'm going to create a file on
our desktop here called test from
episode 179 I'm going to open that file
and I'm going to say hello there that's
all we need okay so when we restore this
what we're going to do is next week
we're actually going to crash this
computer and we're going to restore it
from this cloned version of the hard
drive so that clone if everything goes
well is actually going to contain that
file just like that so it's a new file
it's never been on the system before now
it's going to be a part of the phone so
I'm going to restart my computer you
look flown this before the updates are
not messing around tonight
always it all windows always picks the
most opportune times like you're on the
air and oh I'm gonna get my updates now
and just randomly restart your computer
but will be kind and at the end of the
whole thing once we've closed all your
programs and lost all your work little
pop-up this is held by the way we
rebooted your computer for you isn't
that nice Robbie you get a solution to
do that well I just I just never opted
out of permission to do that let's not
get it wrong okay I automatic update you
again I got opt out if you want it not
to reboot your system for the security
updates I'm booting from the clonezilla
disk which I've burnt to CD okay and you
can do this too first option is probably
the one that you're going to want to use
this is just use regular vga 800 x 600
in my case though I want to I want to
make the screen a little bit bigger just
so 1024 x 768 that's fine so I've just
hit enter on that and it's going to
start booting from the clonezilla CD and
pretty simply what we're going to do now
I've created a network share on one of
my servers is actually my unraid server
but it's using samba which is the
windows file sharing protocol so I've
created a share on my unraid server
called clonezilla so what we're going to
do is through the network connection i'm
actually going to clone the hard drive
to a file or an image on that network
share so I'm not actually even saving it
to the to the local computer I'm saving
it to to the network directly to the
network which again with the server
edition you could then deploy that from
the network through pxe or whatever you
want to do so there's there's really no
limit we're not going to get know if you
were to use that image yeah on that
computer and then
that computer yeah well no did have to
be another exact model of this same
hardware short the figuration and you're
on a network you're gonna have to run
something like new SID so the idea of
okay we may have to change your
networking information right but they're
gonna have that you're gonna be right
but we're not talking about well i guess
like it because i have a nice deep slow
like a 20 or 30 year and peters and I
didn't have clonezilla it was another
product but right we you know it's been
a week or two making your system exactly
the way you want it yes fabulous so in
this case for the sake of this
demonstration we're getting into we've
created our system that's the way we
want it to be and we're going to clone
it as a backup so now server
administrators and IT texts and people
who work in the IT department at the
educational facilities or schools they
may you may be interested in doing the
multi casting but that's not what we're
getting into tonight tonight we're
creating a backup on our network on
another computer on our network that we
can use so that if our hard drive
crashes we can replace that hard drive
and we can put everything back to the
exact way that we wanted it the way that
it's set up right now or if you have
teenagers and they put everything they
get a virus or whatever yeah absolutely
can just okay we're gonna pave it and
which language english is the one I'm
going to go with and then it's asking
for my key map if you use a different
type of keyboard for example with high
characters or other language you can
change that but I'm going to go don't
touch my key map don't touch it stay
away it's a little harsh
it's the wording of clonezilla you know
here we go so that's going to load up
clonezilla here we go what do you wanna
do start clonezilla which indeed starts
clonezilla it's there's redundancy for
you okay what do you want to do a device
image or a device to device image okay
so what is asking here and I'm maybe not
wording it correctly take your device
and put it in an image that's what we
want to do we want to create an image of
that device that is a file we can then
transfer that anywhere we want we can
back it up we can put it on other
devices we can put it on our external
hard drive we can back it up to off-site
backup whatever we want to do device to
device on the other hand is if you've
already got that replacement hard drive
so you're upgrading to a larger hard
drive device to device will allow you to
use clonezilla to copy everything
sector-by-sector to a new hard drive and
you'll be able to boot up that computer
no problem so that's a little bit
different tonight what we're doing is a
device to image type of cloth okay when
you do it harder to Hargrove just one
hoof to this is an actual
as I recall there was something in doing
and actually say okay this is one we're
actually building too yeah you have to
specify which one you want to put it on
Oh again we're not touching that tonight
and that can be a little bit dangerous
because what you're touching on there is
what happens if you accidentally select
the wrong drive right you've got the
blank drive and the one with all your
data hope you got to be careful when we
do that but we're not going to get into
that one tonight because that's that's
an off case where you're probably not
going to end up doing that again to the
sake of a backup here we are I'm going
to select now see you can select a local
device so if you want to put this on an
external hard drive as an image that's
cool if you want to use an ssh server to
securely transfer it over to a linux box
for example or NFS that's all possible
to in my case I've got a samba server on
the network so that's the one I'm going
to choose and I'm going to configure
this to actually save to my network
we're going to connect by dhcp this is
basic networking so essentially on your
network if you have a dhcp server which
is to say a router you're going to
select dhcp okay only reason you know
anyone who needs to know that knows it
already what what that means I'm sure
okay the IP address wording gets a
little bit confusing here so I'm going
to help you out basically the IP address
that I'm entering here is the IP address
of my server where the samba share is so
you can go to that computer if it's a
windows box that has say them let's
share on it you can just check your IP
address by typing ipconfig space / all
and that will give you the IP in my case
I happen to know that my servers 1000
about five so I'm entering that the
domain of your samba server in my case
it's not on a domain it's a work group
again if you're on a domain you probably
know what that means you can set that up
the account for your server the folder
of the directory where it's going to put
it now keep in mind again the wording is
a little bit weird because this isn't
directory at all this is the samba share
and as i said before i created a share
called clonezilla
now I have to enter the password for my
administrator and it's actually
prompting me down there and now we can
see that 1000 5 / clonezilla is mounted
successfully on home / part image
alright press ENTER to continue it says
so I can let that go how do you want to
proceed we're going to go with beginner
mode keep things real simple and then
what do we want to do save local disk as
an image or save local partitions as an
image we're going to save the entire
disk and again what that gives us is it
allows us to save all the data sector by
sector for all partitions on the hard
drive so that includes windows linux if
it's dual 0 it includes everything oh
it's group yeah really so that's why
we're doing the disk as opposed to just
individual partitions okay so there's
gonna be a full backup it's actually
doing some stuff down here now give it a
name so it automatically assigns today's
date / at a dash image and i'll put dash
will call this my quickbooks does that
stuff what this computer is and hit
enter
it's asking me the local hard disk the
one that's going to be my source it's
the only hard drive in this computer so
it makes it real simple I'm going to
back up my 10.7 gigabyte hard disk okay
so now it's telling me at the bottom
here nothing that I need to know next
time you can just run this command hit
enter to continue and it's going to
actually go through now
it's detecting devices getting things
ready are you sure you'd like to
continue its just confirming that it's
going to put this on part image a mag
which we know is our share on the server
are you sure you'd like to continue
we're going to say yes and there we go
it's beginning to create our backup
and there it goes so this is going to
take about 40 minutes to create this
actual backup which we're not actually
going to do throughout the course of the
show obviously but we wanted to start
that and this is going to complete
tonight and then I'm going to have a
copy of this entire image we're going to
create that we're going to restore that
next week so I'm gonna just let that
keep running and we've got a lot of
stuff to give away tonight but don't
miss next week as we are going to be
actually restoring that image with
clonezilla back to a corrupted computer
we're going to crash that hard drive
completely and we're going to save
everything and get back to that up and
running so Wirecast for is a brilliant
broadcast software it's what we use to
create the show here at category-five TV
everything that you see here is powered
by wire cast and you get the software at
camp five dot TV / Wirecast and we're
giving away a copy and all you have to
do to qualify as visit our website
category 5 TV login to the website if
you're not already registered make sure
you register and then go to support us
and advertise on category 5 TV you'll
find that nested somewhere in that page
hidden on that page is information on
how to qualify to win a copy of wire
cast for it is worth four hundred and
fifty dollars us and it's a brilliant
piece of software it encourage you to
check that out and for tonight get in
the chat room right now go dribble ya
know so category five dot TV nice to
have everybody joining us in the chat
room there good to see you and make sure
you get into the chat room this is your
last chance to qualify 2nite will just
give you a second to get in there
because we're taking qualifiers right
there in the chat room category five TV
using our handy draw bot oh just going
to actually grab all the names of
everybody who's joining us in the chat
room tonight and tell us from those
names who is going to win
very give people a couple more moments
here we go this is to win we've got to
poke applies to give away now these are
going to two individuals so we're not
giving you to polka plugs we're giving
one to each so so you've got double the
chances to win tonight here we go robot
is entering the chat room so you've been
loving your pogoplug this was great you
know and um the prettier that my
daughter uses yeah wasn't working last
night and said Oh upload your homework
to my google hog it all printed from
here I'm really an end it worked it was
great really yeah it was great that's
fantastic oh no I am quite impressed
yeah took me a little while to to try it
but I might take this one home now yeah
but you've been enjoying it I love it
cool I love it very good yes indeed
well yeah somebody in the chat room has
a name that's that's messing up draw by
that makes us girls and slushes yeah
he's got commas and slashes in their
name oh what a shame i want to give
these away tonight okay so what I'm
gonna do Christy yeah yeah what do you
do in a case like that we're actually
we're just experiencing some technical
difficulties with drama bot who goes
into the chat room but if I guess if
somebody has a wonky name it's it's
causing something to go wrong so
unfortunately draw bot is unable to draw
from the current list of names and
because we're live on the air it's it's
unfortunate I was gonna say you know
what that is unfortunate so well we have
pick a number between one there you go
we're not going to make you lose out on
your opportunity to win a pogoplug so
we're gonna put these these two pogo
plugs on the shelf for next week and so
make sure you're joining us next tuesday
night of course you're going to want to
be here anyways because it's gonna be an
awesome show we're going to be going
back well we're going to be taking that
that back up from clonezilla and putting
it there you go winners are blank thanks
to robot winners blank and so next week
we will give away to pogo plugs which
means we're going to have four pogo
plugs to give away next month so make
sure you are here at category 5 TV it's
been fun having you here and in the
meantime we do have that opportunity for
you to win Wirecast for and I'd
encourage you to check that out so we're
gonna do some detective work on the
program find it yeah what up and figure
out what happened there ok so on next
week we're Tuesday kappa sewed number
180 that's a good way to have a way
exactly well it will reverse everything
that just happened and didn't have a
working drama button
we're incredible up free vodka with our
fancy little notebook document yeah and
how fancy is that I did you try out your
ringer wraps this week I did and my son
has the same same thought yeah I've got
the same phone and so I gave one him I
don't know if he's actually gone out and
played in the rain or anything yet but
planner seems pretty cool very good
check those out that is where are they
clever raps com yeah well get your
questions in live at category 5 TV and a
game that encourage you to submit a
viewer testimonial and don't miss next
week's show it's going to be it's going
to be jam-packed we're going to have so
much going on especially now that we've
had to move some things to next week so
that's going to be a lot of fun you're
not going to want to miss out and that
Christy you should get in here and just
that we don't have a microphone for you
tonight but just come and wave and say
hi over there with the 15 seconds that
we have christy is here in the studio
surprised us tonight and just a caiman
has been a part of our studio audience
maybe you could back up a little bit
John there you go ok Christina where you
love it good to see ya you can keep them
well how's a person yeah really good
where's my radio and I've been cheating
yeah yeah I I've been
news from home news from home yeah like
voice tracking or just sending them
tracks or what are you doing that
through old site wow that's very cool
yeah now we just got to get you on your
pogoplug uploading them that way i canna
be good okay somebody says hey there's
Christina it's cold Michigan and so it
begins it doesn't take long it's cool to
know it's cold it was good minus 2.5 wow
wow you very specific half a degree
there it was minus 17 here's a smart
Greg in Texas hey it's oh oh yeah egg
whoa wait wait come from 63 to 38
Fahrenheit wow wow so for you sell sees
people though the others from who you
know was 18 down to it was a great idea
bringing her in with one minute left of
the show but we are out of time love it
and I can actually cut her off and it's
and it's okay because we're at a time
seven of them unjustly it's great to see
you know yeah it's good to see you too
so good to see you wait upper 60s in
Texas have a fantastic week and we'll
talk to you next Tuesday night so wait d
men enjoy that weather wait wait see you
next Tuesday bye bye oh wait
