with all the talk of fan creations over
the past few weeks Jeff again you've
been away but you were here when we were
talking about were you here when we
talked about Star Trek no he wasn't
though stage 9 you know the virtual
reality desist what they got a cease and
desist from CBS my reaction to that's
the whole world's can reaction right now
so why yeah exactly right I know so look
at the episode 575 if you want to know
my thoughts on the whole situation so
that you know that's a community project
uh yeah project that was created and
then shut down is that not the second
one that's been give it a cease and
desist I feel like there have been like
well there been some some fan-made films
and things like that the the guy who
played Tuvok didn't he go to start what
a couple years ago yeah yeah yeah Star
Trek renegades yes that looks so good
yeah so good yeah and that got shut down
too so those are fan productions that
got shut down so um and there are many
that keep getting shut down and it's sad
mm-hmm so there's kind of this
accidental theme of fan created content
and soul who actually reached out to us
to remind us about one that came out 15
years ago really and is still in
existence what and it's exciting because
they've actually broken some records and
they're in fact the longest-running
torrent file in the entire world do you
guys remember this it's called uh what
was it the something matrix Dan the fan
matrix Fanny matrix vana matrix anomie
fan or matrix this it's based in the
matrix universe but you can search for
it it's on Vimeo as well but the
BitTorrent file is still available you
can download this it's a short fan made
fin but I haven't seen it yet but I'm
eager to see it and I've heard it's
really really good so cool but the
BitTorrent file for it is the oldest
BitTorrent in the world and and it
happened because you think about 2003
okay so this
two years before YouTube was even
conceived right okay so if I wanted to
bring out a fan film in too thin in
nineteen what was a 2003 part of me
wasn't Napster still around that
probably probably yeah so you think
about that that's really really tough
for a film content creator to distribute
their material imagine if like we came
along just before YouTube hit hit hit it
big and then we migrated from our own
platform over to and we were using all
kinds of services at the time because it
was such a young young media right but
we're only 12 years old
coming up on so when they brought it out
in 2003 they couldn't put it on a
website or they couldn't stream the
video because the sheer cost of that
back then would have been astronomical
oh for sure and there were there was no
YouTube there was no Vimeo there was no
blip TV there was nothing to put your
video on and distribute it so they got
in touch with some folks and said okay
how can we do this and the IT folks got
together and said we can use this
technology called BitTorrent and they
said what what's that
and so they packaged it up and they put
it into a torrent file huh and people
started downloading it and then they
became seeds and then more people
downloaded here we are fifteen years
later people are still seeding it people
are still torrenting it and it's free
and you can download it and it's legit
it's not an illegal torrent and and it's
still there 15 years later but they're
not producing episodes still no it's one
but one mini movie I think it's like 19
minutes long or something like that but
really well done really well done that's
cool so I had to make mention of that 15
years of the fana matrix or for our UK
friends is it the fanny matrix Fanny
matrix
Wow could be I don't know how they don't
Google that
fa and I make matrix all one word
oh no and NY is in there
[Music]
[Applause]
