welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 by TV
or email us at live at category 5 TV
and now let's get here's your host
Robbie Ferguson welcome to episode
number one ninety of category 50 191 oh
my goodness I know like one up honor so
I know it's Tuesday may the 17th 2011
great to see you nice to have everybody
joining us in the chat room if you're
not already in the chat room make sure
you join us it is category five on
freenode or you can get there right
through our web system it's like this
cool thing called a website category
live TV pretty feature-rich when you can
get in there and chat with other viewers
and talk to us get your questions in
life cool stuff and tonight we're going
to be we're going to be continuing our
web development series 11 weeks in Wow I
know think we'd have a whole website but
i'm pretty sure somebody in the chat
room just said it keeps going and going
like the Energizer Bunny just I was
gonna say but now we need to endorse
that we are sponsored in part by eko
outlines and good going now we're in
trouble oh my bad you blame it on me
leave it on the designer address is that
called battery what I can charge the
battery I think we should try it all
right a ok lots of cool stuff coming up
we have a new feature on our website
category 5 TV I'm going to take you
there and check this out this was
requested by viewers and we love to
provide you with some cool features on
our website that are specific to what
you want you'll notice that it under
watch the show RSS feeds menu item has
been changed to subscriptions and RSS
feeds and there's good reason for that
if you scroll down on the page you'll
see that now you can subscribe to
category 5 TV via your email account
what that's going to do is that every
week when the show comes out on the RSS
feeds rather than having to subscribe
through an aggregator you're going to
actually get an email in your inbox
that's just simple and says here's a
link to the file this is what the show
is about and you'll get that once a week
so I think that's a pretty cool feature
and again was requested by some of our
viewers so
I'm happy to put that into place cool
cool how's your week going oh actually
surprisingly slow slow like so like I
don't have a ton of work like it's just
good oh so nice no cuz I go nuts i get a
little chilly and I have to do something
I've had kind of the opposite where I
think I mentioned it a couple shows back
where I was pushing people to get me
content get websites finished and all of
them lame together all at the same time
and you don't expect that because quite
often it takes a long time to get
content so I kind of kicked myself a
little bit and be like oh you got a
limit yourself a little bit I'm wearing
so it's been really busy the past couple
weeks but I am I'm hanging in there
thanks for asking oh yeah so no problem
we did get a lot of your complaints this
week we had a conversation last week we
are talking about how I was trying to
push a boon to linux on you and and they
felt bad for you that well yours are
just not so sure you know so I changed
your mug this week I don't know if I'd
advise can see that it is indeed yeah
it's a spongebob mug now I guess she had
again with the endorsements I would
rather it be in a boon to hug but in
order to make that compromise we also
have to viewer said you know we're so
offended about this one particular thing
on the show and you really need to start
censoring some of the content of the
show so happy to oblige our viewers we
are introducing censorship this week
which we don't like to do but we are
going to censor the show just a little
bit so there we go oh you're kidding oh
I don't approve oh my poor Mac that's
for you it's not a Mac anymore though is
it should be my move it doesn't don't
move it stop messing with the censorship
I am NOT impressed ok beyond that
that should satisfy a couple of your
complaints there we have a new blip TV
profile at blip TV / category 5 you may
have heard the blip TV has extended
their service they are branching out and
becoming really the go to space for
independent web broadcasters and its
really really making a difference there
at blip TV check it out blip TV /
category 5 is where they're featuring us
and hopefully we'll we'll see some new
viewers coming to us through blip TVs
new service and we're very pleased that
they've chosen to feature us on that on
that service as well so very cool uh
what do we have coming up in the
newsroom oh good love to know well let's
see here so a new law could allow the US
government and copyright holders to shut
down access to certain websites
scientists have found a planet that
could definitely truly support life and
it's close enough to study in the years
to come sony's playstation network is
finally back online for most of the
world's users and please please please
change your password and tonight we say
a final farewell to limewire as the RIAA
celebrates another victory against peer
to peer sharing stick around these
stories are coming up in under 30
minutes hmm censorship just kind of
fades in there oh that's horrible that's
fantastic okay can I put a complaint in
if I email you a complete remove sonship
this is supposed to be a web
broadcasting no more censorship as the
news is about like our I double-a you
know all the the censorship that's going
on in the Internet in the United States
and the government censoring the
internet content and and you're telling
me not to censor the internet maybe we
should be over can't i've mastered what
we try and the people who are listening
to this broadcast tonight as opposed to
watching it have no clue what's going on
necessarily so you know okay those why
we're watching this little special treat
viewer points we've got lots of viewers
that are increasing in their points on
our website category 5 TV we invite you
to join the site become a community
member and you'll have the chance to win
some cool awards you'll be able to
progressively get more and more points
and one of the ways that we offer those
points is by calling on our viewers to
submit cool photos week after week you
can email live at category 5 TV I've got
one from dan murphy who sent this in
from the masai mara observation tower at
dream camp in Kenya Wow sitting there
just enjoying the view I think that'd be
so cool it looks so rustic and so and
you know that this is not this is the
genuine article mm-hmm you know sitting
there in Kenya and it's not it's not
like you know where you know you get
these what are they called tiki huts
yeah that are just kind of like you know
they have them in very well paper
strands and I were like assembled they
were assembled like completely non
legitimate so that that looks like the
real deal so and it looks like he's
having a good time too you got you got a
good man well jealous actually yeah a
lot jealous not that the view here isn't
nice yeah great view of the lights and
hope sorry about that people don't to
offend okay thanks Dan for the for the
email will give you a couple points for
that I've got an email actually a few
from pires rock this world first of all
for 100 viewer points wearing a cardigan
and that is definitely a legitimate zip
up cardigan love it love it what and now
we we were talking last week or known it
must have been like three weeks ago
about about getting t-shirts made and
getting them silk-screened and Pirus
rock went out and actually got the
Ubuntu logo as well as their here we go
there avatar silk-screened on to a shirt
which is very very cool we'd love to
hear how you got that done and that
that's very cool also pires rock went
skiing this is just on the fourteenth of
this month Wow and wearing a t-shirt
we're in the karmic koala looks
absolutely underdressed but at least
you're representing absolutely but where
are you that you've got this much snow
at this time of year like we're in
Canada and I would think like you know
you can you people make fun of us we
have no snow iris rock yeah oh but it
does look nice does so I don't know
we've got a hundred points for the for
the cardigan let's say you've got a cool
of bhuntu shirt you're wearing the
karmic koala shirt so I'd say you're
representing open source Linux so we'll
throw you another hundred viewer points
for a total of two hundred viewer points
this week and certainly we appreciate
everybody who's participating in that
submitting viewer pictures and we'd
invite you to to send yours in this week
I'd like to change things up but we've
been doing the cardigan for a while
based on the I'm sorry based on the
tuesday song will find it a cat5 TV /
tuesday the cardigan what I want to do
over the next few weeks is bring up
category 5 TV on your device be it
you're 37 inch TV or via your portable
device or your your iPad or other tablet
device whatever you use to watch the
show we'd love to we'd love to have a
picture of that set up and especially if
you can get you know a couple people
around that set up if you've got a big
TV get some people in the shot including
yourself if possible and and send us
that picture live at category 5 TV we're
going to be awarding some viewer points
based on the pictures
submitted this week and you'll notice as
well when you log into our website we
have upped the ante every day that you
log in you're going to get ten viewer
points for the time being Wow very cool
stuff so we must have some questions
coming in I've got the chat room open as
well so feel free to say hey all right
so come on let's have a look here from
Joe usually say hi Joe sorry I actually
had my water well I just I'm saying that
it's just hydrate hey Joe so please find
attached a screenshot of an error
message I get every time I log on a
category 5 TV any idea what is what it
is everything seems to work just fine by
the way I just installed perfect Boone
26 thanks okay so the error message this
is when you first log in does anybody
else get anything like this first thing
imma try is dumping your cash just in
case but the there's a couple of weird
things that I see here first thing is
that it's defaulting to Hillary's bio
which I wonder if your cash for some
reason is locked has locked you into
that session and is trying to point to
an item 92 which doesn't exist and then
this is this is actually our 404 error
we have this set ups because we
redesigned the website over the bullet
back in January first so I built a nice
little 404 screen so that it would make
recommendations based on what you're
looking for but for some reason it's
erroneously directing you to this for me
to this 404 page so can you dump your
cash Joe and and if you're in Firefox
shift ctrl delete and and clear that out
I hate to do that to you if you've got
other stuff saved that you that you need
in your cash you can do so without
clearing passwords and things like that
just to rule that out or try it from
another computer in the house and see if
that if that eliminates that anybody
else have a similar problem oh it works
now fantastic MMD Murphy sang dump your
cash my way haha
yeah heck foolin well glad that fixed it
yeah nacho so from John our streets hey
John our streets he says hey John our
streets it's been a while buddy he's
fast to help you hi Robbie hey I'm still
around I just got stuck on this check
the second shift the word the second
thing what oh sorry I will be back on
the third shift soon I will glad well
glad be sorry will be glad when I can
join you guys live again on linux i can
make a new folder with my file browser
not tillis in Nome dolphin in KDE okay
it doesn't matter which one they all
seem to do it and if I named it with
more than one word like my folder then I
tried a CD to that directory via the
command line I get no such file or
directory as long as I named it with
only one word all is good I can make the
same folder with MK directory my folder
with the command line and the file
browsers can see it and so can the
command line i have googled around about
it and it doesn't seem to be a big
problem but it drove me crazy for a
while i would like to know if you have
any idea why this happened yeah i think
gavels got it in the chat room you're
missing some / is there so what's
happening if I follow you correctly i'm
going to just jump on my desktop here
and i create a new folder in nautilus
now you were stumbling over that not
sure what what Nautilus is and what that
is is like you know in Windows you've
got my computer in Mac you've got finder
and in Linux you've got either it could
be any one of the different types of
file management utilities so you've got
Nautilus is basically known so when I
bring up my computer create folders and
things like that that's what I'm seeing
or I guess it's dolphin in KDE which is
another desktop environment so
okay so i'm going to create a folder
here and i'm going to call this as
you're saying my folder so in that
folder i can bring it up i can double
click on it and i can do stuff in there
using nautilus or just my standard GUI
stuff but if i go to my terminal and I
go into CD desktop and then try CD my
folder it's going to say no such file or
directory and the reason for that is cuz
there's a space in that file name so
what we need to do is we can do two
things we can go CD my with a capital M
because I typed it that way and then i
can hit hit tab on my keyboard and it's
gonna automatically fill in the rest of
it and i hit enter and it's done or i
can type it manually CD my / folder and
hit enter and that's going to work or
here's another way i can go CD space
quote my folder without the slash and
that's also going to take me in there
you've got to have those quotes around
it though otherwise you're not going to
it's not going to recognize the space if
you create a folder the way that you're
showing in the email to Krista there
what you've done is you've gone make der
my folder and what you're actually doing
in that case is you're creating two
folders one of them is called my and the
other one is called folder so if I hit
enter on that and then I go CD my folder
what I'm actually saying is changed to
the my directory because it emits it
forgets about what you're typing after
the space so now you see that I'm in the
folder called my I go back to CD dot I
can also go CD folder because that was
created when we did CD my space folder
so now back at my Nautilus if I go into
that original folder you'll see that
there are two folders now one called
folder and one called my so again using
using bash or terminal here we could go
make der for make directory originally
we're using CD for change directory we
could put this in quotes my folder and
that's going to have done it so you see
we've got one called folder one called
my and now we've got one called my
folder
for example and the same al ghurair the
same method applies you can use the
slash as well so make sure my / space
folder that's called an escape character
so anytime there's a character in there
that is not compatible with terminal it
has to be escaped so that would be like
a quote if you put a quote in a file
name I don't know if you can do that
anyway but I guess you can see how it's
put a quote in this file name i put
hello quote so if i wanted to change
directories to that in in terminal I'd
have to go CD space hello with a capital
H /quote because I need the escape
character for that quote to be inputted
without being interpreted as an actual
quote basic semantics as far as how how
your file system functions I hope that
that that helps Cheers rd streets is in
the challenges ah thanks i was driving
me nuts and what a hard thing to search
for in google like because it's just
it's semantics right it's just all about
how your how you're trying to change the
directory and terminal so i hope that
helps and when in doubt put quotes
around it and you'll be good to go
because then you can put spaces if in
the file name and if you want so cool
great thanks for the question and great
to see you so another email from mehdi
maybe sorry well we'll call you matey
we'll call you matey says hello Rami
Krista and the cat5 TV team Emily I've
been following the web development
series and it's a great help for me I'm
using gimp 2.6 sorry Krista for graphic
designing but for programming i'm using
visual web developer 2010 in windows 7
he said sorry Robbie now the I be
interested to know because we tried to
keep this very application neutral how
well that's been working out for you
that you're using a windows based
application that's designed for asp
says because I'm only familiar with
asp.net and sorry c c sharp sure okay so
far i followed each and every step with
success but i want to know whether i can
finish it with asp.net and can host it
with a pact that a pact to in a boon to
11 point 0 for what kind of cheese
soaring patchy I I just cleared eyes
like a pack Apache I spelled it out in
my head I got you now can you do that
asp to photoshop on so you want to do
asp.net to point there's a module that
you can install but you've got to have a
windows server and i never recommend
having a windows server running a
website I mean you're just you're just
asking for trouble it's it's really your
call if you want to stay the ASP route
what we're going to be covering is going
to be based on open source technologies
like PHP being able to install a lamp
stack and boom your ear up and run and
it's free software ASP is based on
Microsoft's proprietary net framework so
you're locked into Microsoft's products
you can install apache on to that server
if you want instead of using iis but you
have to have net 2.0 installed or
whatever it is whatever it takes to to
give the Apache module access to asp so
that said you wouldn't be able to host
that on a linux box which is the
preferred mechanism for hosting websites
they've just basically around the world
like thats that's the way it is you
can't deny that i'm not not denying it
mm-hmm okay okay what was the other the
first question that kind of was a
two-parter wasn't it ahh Tala luck Oh
about using being able to follow along
with should be able to follow along and
do what we do is your IDE the the
application that you're using is going
to is going to work with PHP it's just
text editing basically right but what
we're doing is going to be staying away
from any kind of proprietary
technologies as soon as much as we can I
mean
we're using file formats like jpg and
stuff like that but no big deal there
okay but cool that you're following
along I hope that you're getting much
out of it my my leniency is is
definitely towards linux and open source
and for so many reasons for security
reasons and for just cost effectiveness
and and the fact that you know why would
i buy something like an ASP server when
you can do more and do it more securely
on a linux server and Jenna that's
general I mean that is opinion but
that's general consensus as far as web
hosting goes I think you're going to
find that most people would prefer to
host on a linux server in which case PHP
is the ideal solution so final blogger
is the person who's asking the question
about asp how well versed are you at asp
net hey because if you're if you're not
to lock down to it i would encourage you
to try new like try PHP and follow along
with us and you're seeing already that
we're doing some HTML and CSS which is
stuff that you're going to be doing
anyways like C sharp so I think you'll
find that because C sharp is I mean PHP
is PHP is a lot of fun code ours 360
says in the chat room there I've heard
that PHP is a great language to learn
when you're doing programming with
languages like C++ and C sharp because
they're they're kind of similar in their
in their syntax but I'm not a I don't
program in either of those languages so
I don't know that for a fact but you
might be interested to see how that
transcends cool all right so the
question and hope that sort of answers
yeah from pirates rock hey Piper Chapman
I was just watching up so 166 where you
covered mounting the pogoplug it win
sorry in anticipation of setting mine up
and was concerned that the password is
in plain text as I'd suggest something
to make the mount more secure if when
you type dot slash pogoplug etc
you put a space in front of the command
he'll make the command not log therefore
someone can't just press up and see your
password you know that is a fantastic
suggestion and I and I thank you for
that what pires rock is saying there's
just put a space before the command to
run pogoplug a pass which which is a
brilliant suggestion thank you and I'll
definitely make that suggestion as well
and and I'm going to try to keep that in
mind for future tutorials too because if
I do for example if I go echo hello and
it's going to echo out hello but now if
i push my up arrow i see that command so
what pires rock is saying is instead
push space echo test 123 which is
echoing out test 123 but if i push up my
history only shows echo hello which was
the first command it's not saving that
to history so i really do like that
suggestion a lot thank you very much my
rock and I think that works great in the
case of the pogoplug if you're entering
your password you don't want someone to
be able to sit down at your computer and
type in the word history I'm just going
to output all of your your past things
that you've typed into your computer in
bash so that's that's a fantastic
suggestion thank you he also says I'm
sorry to say goodbye to John eNOS too he
will be missed and last question from
Michelle Michelle she says how can i
connect from my home computer to my work
network to my work network to work from
home i'm running windows vista at home
and on Wi-Fi my work system is running
windows 7 so you want to be able to
remote in basically to your computer at
work which it you know the best thing
that you can do in the case that you're
using Windows is probably use you can
use the free version of like logmein for
example if you want to keep it really
really simple let's see
logmein com just like it sounds and what
this software does is it allows it
specifically allows you to access your
computer from basically from anywhere
you do it through a web browser so what
you would do is you would install this
application on your work computer the
Windows 7 computer the advantage to
doing something like that is that it
kind of circumvents the need to talk to
your IT administrator and say I want to
be able to remote in can you open up the
ports on the firewall and then all of a
sudden you've got some security issues
and things here's a secure way that you
can for free access your computer from
outside of the the work network and and
that pretty much works every time and
there is a free version it's a little
bit stripped down versus the commercial
version I think for your needs just
being that you want to be able to access
your work computer from home I think
that's going to work just fine it's
logmein.com all one word give it a try
let us know how that works and and if
that solves the issue for you and
hopefully that too hopefully that does
great and all the open-source fanatics
are saying why are you recommending
something that's proprietary use on
windows gang let's keep it simple keep
it simple thanks the question are you
ready for news can you believe like
we're half half in already there's so
many questions I know curious good while
so many people with questions aren't yet
ready then I she's like clicking around
speaking of ready I don't know what you
bringing up Dreamweaver here we gonna do
the news oh you thought you weren't
specific i know is that are you ready
for once it's time for the news Oh what
I thought I'd mentioned before before we
get into that I got an email from you
this afternoon mm-hm which is very
pleasing to myself as well as many many
people around the world and maybe you
could expressed a little bit about what
that was about how about the email yes I
wrote my bio her Bible so ladies and
gentlemen we will have a bio for Crystal
Wells up on the website for
within the next day or two I suppose
excellent yeah thanks for doing that
we're all volunteers here so I mean we
can we can pounder and we can we can be
like where's the bile one that's really
all we can do yeah thanks I wrote it
that happened cheers appreciate them all
right great to the newsroom
right Oh from the category 5 TV news
room web sites that link to pirated
music and movies or sell counterfeit
goods continued blocked in America US
politicians are about to consider
legislation which includes a raft of
measures to clamp down on such sites
sites targeted under the protect IP act
would be removed from the Internet's
address books making them hard to find
by their well-known domain name as well
as laying government take action the
protect IP act would allow copyright
holders holders to allow for court
orders to get sites blocked or delisted
sherwin slide deputy deputy legal
director Chris Rea director at the
public knowledge digital rights group is
concerned and says that if this act is
passed it would accelerate the net down
a path that could lead to governments
everywhere sanitizing online content so
citizens only get what those in power
think they should see a red dwarf star
20 light-years away is again providing
hints that it hosts the first
definitively habitable planet outside
our solar system the planet Gliese 50
581 D is that the colder outer edge of
the Goldilocks zone seriously yeah it's
gone you know what that means is it like
there's this belt that they say this is
where abital habitable see we both can
stumble habitable planets can exist
throughout this belt it's a certain you
know distance from the Sun and Earth is
right smack in the middle of this belt
and this planet is just on the outskirts
of that so there's this assumption that
it's close enough to that habitable belt
cool who knows sound read on to the
outer edge of the Goldilocks zone in
which liquid water can be sustained as
well as porridge hmm now a study in
Astrophysical Journal Letters suggests
its atmosphere may keep things warm
enough for water the content that
conditions could be suitable for oceans
of liquid water as well as clouds and
rainfall however glazed Gliese 581 DS
denser air and the rim red light from
its host star would make for a murky
environment that would be toxic to
humans
dr. Robin Wordsworth a member of the
team from the Institute pure pair Simon
placed in Paris this discovery is
important because it's the first time
climate modulars have proved that the
planet is potentially habitable and all
observers agree that dicks exoplanet
exists because the planet is also
relatively close to Earth it is believed
that upcoming satellites and telescopes
should give us a chance to look closer
as we all know Sony was forced to close
the PlayStation Network a month ago when
hackers gained access to members
personal details since then the Japanese
electronics giant has been working to
improve its security systems having
recently restored the PlayStation
Network the service had to be taken back
offline briefly due to the sheer number
of you nourish users trying to change
their passwords limited service has now
been restored in most countries
including the UK and the United States
Sony's offering its users a welcome back
package of premium content including a
free game limewire was a cross-platform
computer program that used peer-to-peer
technology to help people find media on
other computers and let others see and
download their libraries of files
limewire has reached an out-of-court
settlement which record labels with
record labels that sued for helping
people pirate music the lime group which
developed the limewire system has agreed
to pay around 105 million to 13 music
firms the prolonged legal fight has led
to limewire being shut down get the full
stories at category 5 TV / newsroom the
category 5 TV news room is researched by
Rory w Nash with contributions by our
community of viewers if you have a new
store you think is worthy of honorary
mention email newsroom at category 5 TV
for the category 5 TV news room I'm
Krista wells thanks Krista great job hey
tonight's show is brought to you in part
by pogoplug at cat 5 TV / Pogoplug and
of course planet calypso and get the
free online game from cat 5 TV / Calypso
let's jump into our feature for the
night yay part 11 of our web development
series hop on over to
demo dot cat five dot TV / 009 and
you'll see what we've been working on
now last week you'll recall that we had
a an issue with the footer and being
that we're a live show sometimes these
things happen and sometimes there's not
enough time to actually look over the
source code and say like i wouldnt in
business you know okay well what's
actually going on here because we're
live and so that sad that's something
that can sometimes happen so we put out
a part of me a note on the show notes
for last week's show and I said do you
know what could be the problem post your
comments below and watch episode number
199 to see if you were right and we got
one response to that and that comes from
T Oscar who who suggested that we visit
a particular pardon me a particular
website you can get that link from the
bottom of the show notes for episode
number one ninety and just with
suggesting that you could create a class
for the footer and and actually make it
just kind of sit at the very bottom of
the site at all times using a particular
tutorial so that's not the method that
we're going to be using TS cure but we
will throw some viewer points your way
for the valiant effort and and
unfortunately nobody got the the answer
quite where we wanted it to be this week
immediately after the show last week I
said oh oh we figured it out it was
literally like that just like that so
I'm going to bring up my CSS file for
for this website style dot CSS and will
immediately see what actually happened
here when we look at the at the site
we're playing around and our main body
contains a relative positioning that
main body has a top positioning which
means it's moving it down from the top
by 85 pixels and yet we were trying to
add a footer of only 60 pixels so it's
not even gonna be visible it's hidden
completely behind something that has
been pushed down 85 pixels so if i want
to show 60 pixels of this footer i
basically have to make sure that it is
going to be for one higher than 85
pixels because that's what we bumped
down the main body by with position
relative so I'm just going to go 85 +
and I want it to be 60 pixels I could do
it that way no you know what I'm going
to do position relative as well because
if I'm correct in this let's see what
happens if i bring this up again it's
009 tonight as the folder that we're
working with so head on over to demo dot
cat five dot TV / 009 there's our footer
we're not going to take too much time
with the footer because really cosmetics
to me right now are not all that
important but you see that that's
exactly the effect that we were going
for 60 pixels at the bottom and you saw
it happen live all i did was i copied
the position relative top 85 and i
pasted that to position relative top 85
for footer because again what's
happening there if you envision your you
know a piece of paper that you've drawn
a square on and you've said okay you
know what i'm gonna take that square i'm
gonna position it relatively i'm going
to move it down 85 pixels but because
it's been moved relatively it's going to
actually overlap anything that's not
positioned relatively is so the next
element is actually going to fall
underneath so that that footer was there
but it's only 60 pixels high so it's
it's too short to actually show below
the the position relative so what we've
done now is we said okay take this
footer now and we're going to move that
down the same amount of space 85 pixels
and it's going to start right at the
bottom of that that that main body
wrapper and then it's going to spew out
that 60 pixels for our footer which is
just giving us that nice little bit of
padding that we wanted so now when we
look at 009 you see that our site is
it's got that 60 pixels of padding and
everything else we're pretty pleased
with and it's the way we want to be so
tonight we are finally going to get into
some PHP
not just basic PHP just to get us
started but to understand the relation
between now we've done CSS well we've
done it first of all we did the the PSD
we did the graphics we slice the
graphics into JPEGs and pings and things
like that and then we use CSS and HTML
what you've seen so far has been just
straight HTML with some CSS to a little
bit of I don't even think that we used
any css3 so it's all stuff that's going
to be reasonably cross-browser
compatible and that's something that you
do need to be mindful of if you're going
to be doing websites for for clients and
things is testing across you know people
do use Internet Explorer plain and
simple so you do have to test on
Internet explorer and if there's if
there are problems which are is often
the case because I e doesn't conform to
web standards the way that the firefox
and safari and webkit-based browsers do
so you got to watch out for that kind of
stuff this is a fairly simple layout so
we're probably not going to experience
any issues that are substantial enough
to make it look wrong in another browser
because we're keeping things pretty
simple so but you may run into that so
be mindful of that okay so looking at
that I'm going to close out of the file
that i'm editing live on the server
because what I'm about to do is going to
happen on my computer itself okay I've
got my index file style is going to stay
where it is and stay the way that it is
and imagine okay so we've got this file
and we've got our menu and the menu is
the perfect example of where PHP
includes become this fantastic tool that
you're never going to want to live
without if you end up with a site and I
see this all the time on older sites
that were developed by you know people
that works strictly in flat HTML you get
a website with this menu and they end up
with you know 30 or 40 different files
with a copy of this menu so as the site
grows they're constantly adding content
constantly adding content until you know
you've got 30 40 50 files and all of
those are basically copies of this index
dot PHP but it's HTML so if that
customer
or if I if it was my own website said
okay now we've got home and about us
here we are we've got 300 files on our
website and now we want to also add you
know whatever a blog so now you you look
at that and you say oh no i've got this
crazy static menu that I I have to go
through every single file and there are
tools to help make that you know to
expedite that process but generally
speaking I've got to go through every
single file and make that change like
this to 300 different files now and oh
my goodness is that of her pain or you
know suddenly we want to search engine
optimizing this this file used to be
called ab dot PHP because it originally
we thought well that'd that'd be fine
but then we realize you know that's not
very well search engine optimized so we
want to rename that file about asked PHP
and we got to go for three hundred
different files and edit this this file
so with PHP includes you're going to
find that tonight we're going to
actually make that process we're going
to eliminate that process and that
frustration that headache that could
happen because we got to plan ahead with
our websites that's why you'll notice in
the header of this file even we have
title and we've got a PHP echoing out of
the word title a string called title
you're going to learn what that does
next week in the meantime for tonight
we're going to start slicing this thing
up and we're going to create this into a
PHP file so I'm going to start at the
top of my file and I'm at the very very
top and I'm highlighting down and I'm
thinking logically that this file is
that this what I'm looking at right now
is the header of my file so I'm going to
keep going i'm highlighting highlighting
oh but now i'm at the body okay so i'm
just going to cut now I've got that in
my clipboard I've left body what's in my
clipboard is just the header so I'm
going to create a new file I'm going to
paste in what's in my clipboard and now
I've got everything that was in the
header and I'm going to file save as
back at my website here i'm going to
create a new folder because we've never
done this before and I call this
includes which is just my way of being
organized
doesn't have to be called includes and
i'm going to call this because i like to
be i want i want everything to be easy
to understand so that it's not
complicated for me and it's not
complicated for the next guy who needs
to add at this site i'm just going to
call it hetero a so now i know that
there's a file called hetero and when i
see that that is the header of my
website so if i ever need to change
anything if i ever want to add jquery to
my site so that i have some cool ajax
effects and things like that i can do so
by only editing that one file its hetero
thp but now my sites completely broken
if i upload that change okay so i'm just
uploading index dot PHP and those of you
who are on 0092 a quick refresh with me
and you'll see oh my what happened here
this is what happens when you're missing
the CSS because remember this thing is
powered strictly by CSS so it's a broken
reason for that is is because we need to
now tell our index dot PHP hey we need
to open a PHP command and we're going to
close it always open and close just so
you don't accidentally forget and then
wonder why you're getting a syntax error
and we're going to go require once is
one that we can use okay and it looks
like that okay or we can go include
which is fine in this case will learn
the difference it look up the difference
between that there is require okay
require once means it's only going to
happen once and then there's include
we're going to use include in this case
but look them up go to PHP net look up
the difference of each of those and
understand why that's the case we're
gonna go dot slash includes because
that's the folder that we place this in
header.php save that file we're going to
now remember we need to upload our
includes folder because that's never
been uploaded before okay and we're
going to upload our index dot PHP which
now has that include if i refresh again
009 you notice it's exactly the same as
it used to be when that header was a
part of this file but in actuality it's
not it's a separate file so now if we
need to change the header from now on we
only have to do that in one place
anything that we want to change there
because our index yeah our index this is
great for templating this is great for
skinning your site and things like that
it's just fantastic and now if you
imagine if this file became even in its
current state of food if it grew to the
point where there are 300 different
files my header is only one file okay so
what we want to what we want to achieve
is we want each of those 300 files to be
only the content for that one page but
if I ever need to change any part of the
design itself I only have to do it in
one file so next let's look at our site
we're going to say okay this is all kind
of static for all of our website this is
not a page specific item okay so that's
our logo that's our original wrapper and
what we're going to call this first
let's paste it into a file and decide
what we're going to call it logically
okay i'm going to call this body dot
open dot PHP and the reason I'm putting
the word body first is that I'm also
going to have a body dot closed dot PHP
so that I know that that that file is
part of the body
and all I'm doing is I'm saying okay now
open that instead of having it as a part
of this file you've probably never edit
that body ought to open dot PHP it's
irrelevant but it is necessary now
you'll see I've got my menu woohoo let's
make it so simple okay create a new file
and of course what are we going to call
this we're going to call it menu dot PHP
I'm just saving that notice I'm again
saving this into the includes folder and
now I'm going to include includes menu
dot PHP so all of the same stuff is
happening but now if customer or I need
to change the menu I have one file that
I need to edit it's an includes and it's
called menu PHP how much easier could
that be okay moving along we've got our
header up at the top does the header
ever change the header is static for the
entire site let's say in this case we
make great things happen that's all part
of this site so really the only thing
that's going to change from page to page
is this lorem ipsum text right and that
may be different for your site we're
using this site as our demo but we're
going to say that this is this is only
for this particular demo so I'm going to
cut that I'm going to create a new file
and I'm going to save that as this is
our Polaroid or our header but we're not
going to call a header because that's
going to confuse that original you know
the header file but we can call this I
think the Polaroid idea is is a good
idea because we will always know that
that's our Polaroid notice that
everything is ending in dot PHP because
each of these files can become dynamic
we can we're including them and we in
that file can include other files that
file can run PHP commands
and we call that Polaroid dot PHP the
motor along now you'll notice now we've
got our div ID equals main body that's
the start of our site now this stuff is
the only stuff that's ever going to
change I'm going to clean it up so that
visually I'm not going to accidentally
delete that /div when I'm editing the
site i know that that is part of the
template or the skin the the layout of
the site so now i'm just below that /div
because remember this div is closing
main body ok so down below that I'm
gonna cut all this stuff out right down
to the very very bottom and I could
create a separate file for footer I
don't think it's necessary because
there's really nothing there that's too
you know too advanced really you know
like I don't need to ever separate that
really it's not a huge footer I'm going
to just call this body dot close the PHP
and now where that stuff would have been
back in our index dot PHP we're going to
include it remember we've got an open
PHP we got a closed PHP may I go include
includes / body close PHP it's always
good to have a you know you don't have
to name the files like i do but it's
always good to have a method to your to
your madness if you up a naming
algorithm that you always use because i
always know that my files have style dot
CSS always know that my sites have a
header dot PHP so i know where things
are found if I need to get to them so
now I've got this site that looks
exactly like it did but from a code
perspective it looks like this
there's our lorem ipsum it's really easy
to read now it doesn't look like a
clutter mess ok so now that's our index
dot PHP watch this we're going to open
menu dot PHP we're going to change the
link for about us you're going to call
it about us dot PHP notice I'm using
search engine search engine safe search
engine friendly URL the underscores like
a space and I'm making it so that it's
about us not to critical with about us
because not too many people are going to
search for that but it gets critical
when you're working with a client that
has you know more detailed menu item
names you can infuse keywords into the
file names and it's going to increase
your standings so now remember this is
index dot PHP this is our home i'm going
to go file save as watch how easy this
is about us dot PHP ok so now here's
about us and i'm going to change this to
go blah blah blah about us ok so that's
the entire contents of our about us file
so I'm going to upload includes an index
PHP and about us dot PHP the reason I'm
uploading includes again is because it
has my menu dot PHP remember and I added
that link to about us if i refresh now
and I point2 about us and I click on it
look I'm still on home okay and I click
on about us let's maximize a little bit
and I'm clicking and there it is ok
and we have some white space at the
bottom which we can fill that's not a
problem but you'll see that now I can go
back and forth between things between
different pages and if I go back to my
menu dot PHP or whatever else I can
change things i can add another menu
item just by you know adding it like
that okay and all I need to do now is
I've changed that one file I'm going to
go into includes we're going to upload
menu dot PHP / right filezilla let's
just ask me if I want to overwrite the
existing file and now if i refresh
remember I'm on about PHP refresh hello
new menu item go home I'm on home index
dot PHP and that hello still exists on
that page so you can see how as we grow
this website is going to be become very
very simple to change things but also it
puts our our code in a kind of a modular
way so that if they want a site redesign
for example well we're still working
with a hetero a a menu dot PHP and we
can structure it so that we can just
replace those files in its boom it's a
whole new graphical layout if that's
something that they request so so that
is part 11 of category five TVs web
development series you can find out more
and get yourself some extremely
affordable a steal on web hosting at cat
five dot TV / web dev and we welcome
your comments there as well and if
you're really enjoying this this feature
you can flatter us we'd encourage you
also to possibly donate we're raising
funds to replace the microphones that
have failed us this is a gain a loner
tonight though has been so graciously
loaned to us by music pro and Barry and
I'd encourage you if you're in the berry
area to please show your appreciation
for what they're doing for the show by
visiting music pro on Barry view drive
and very and make a purchase or even
just let them know that that you
appreciate them
and helping us through this this issue
that we've had but your donations will
go specifically towards the purchase of
new microphones and our new server that
that got hit by a surge that
unfortunately has damaged it beyond
repair so and of course you have the
opportunity when you donate to to to
allocate those funds in a different way
if you prefer so we appreciate everybody
who's donated this week as well we're
well on our way to to get in there we
have the flatter feature on our website
as well cat5 TV / flattered if you're a
flatter user and what else will be going
on Wirecast so much stuff going on here
category 5 this week I've got my little
sticky notes and I said like you can
tell it's gonna be a busy show I got
like a whole row of sticky notes
Wirecast cat five dot TV / win and we
are going to be closing down the the
draw for that or the the voting process
of that this is your very absolute last
chance to vote because this week that is
going to be shut down cat5 TV / win
please cast your vote there to help us
to decide who is going to be the winner
of that of that software Wirecast is the
software that we use here at category 5
TV which allows us to do really fancy
things like censoring mac logos I don't
know that that's what they ever intended
on the software box but it is it very
cool we do a lot of cool things mark ass
broadcasts our show it records our show
two discs for us for the RSS feeds later
everything that you see it happen here
is powered by wire cast and we can do it
without them and so we're going to be
giving away a copy of that next week we
are ready to give it away but we want to
give you just this one final chance to
get your votes in cat5 TV / win and
andrey number two it looks like is
winning by a landslide so you know this
is your chance get in there yup tip the
scales and speaking of voting as a
registered viewer you can vote for your
favorite episodes of category five dot
TV and we love to hear what you
of our episodes you can post your
comments but there is a five star system
that you can vote from one to five let
us know what your favorite or least
favorite episodes of category five are
and that is that category five TV boy
the hour flies by then I know it seems
like I just got here you did and now
it's over yeah yeah that's pretty cool
stuff away yeah merrifield you enjoying
yourself Oh always yeah always always
good good looking at the chatroom hey
everybody John says why did you just
sensor that goob into logo by putting an
apple over it that's not cool sorry
about that dude I'll put it back to the
way it's supposed to be oh jeez I just
say something it was meant to be a joke
not another permanent solution to the
problem the solution I suggested that
problem well perhaps duct tape would oh
wait well no no no no we don't put duct
tape on the Mac it's either that or
spray paint no no and stick with the
overlay for now oh really is good a
final blogger is asking what software we
use to upload files what kind of files
are we talking about our show or what
kind of what kind of files let me know
because we have literally like two
minutes PHP files I'm using a program
called filezilla client and go to I i'm
guessing i think it's just filezilla org
let's try it I'll say that verbally you
know it will be completely wrong and it
is filezilla I'm just gonna oh come on
google it might be calm filezilla let's
see oh I was way off filezilla dash
project.org this this client is
compatible with all platforms it's
fantastic it really is a great
application and I've been using it I
used to use I mean back in my windows
days I had a very similar application I
can't remember
it was and then I tried gftp for the
longest time and it wasn't doing it for
me filezilla client is fantastic really
really great and of course it's free
kind of throw that in there as well we
go filezilla project org if you heard
any web address on the show tonight that
you want to get if you didn't catch it
you can check out the show notes this is
episode number 191 and you go to our
website category 5 TV click on watch the
show and you'll see a list of all the
different episodes that have been aired
and you can just click on the show notes
for each episode and this again is 191
and you can get the links at the bottom
of that file that interested in your
shirt tonight oh yeah that's caught on
it makes me look like I'm a sporty guy
like I would like I played football in
the school but not really he was just a
discount at the walmart store perfect
yeah that's kind of there you go uh
pires rock is just saying that they like
gftp because it supports ssh and i will
say that so does filezilla client SFTP
baby invincible mutant it's either you
can say you can connect to any kind of
server with with it's got ftps ftp ftp /
implicit TLS ssl or ftp / explicit TLS
ssl so really you're not limited with
the FileZilla client cool cool yeah boy
oh boy d man 810 saying can't wait to
see me in entropia universe that's
planet calypso cat 5 TV / Calypso can't
wait to see you to join our society now
I should mention too I don't always
remember to check the society terminal
and I've had a couple of people that
join the society thinking of you box for
example there are a couple of others who
tried to join the society and they timed
out I only have a certain number of days
to authorize you as a member of the
society so if I'm out in the boonies and
I'm you know hunting or whatever else it
is that I'm
on planet calypso I don't necessarily
have access to a society terminal so I
get there and then I realized that I
missed a couple people so if you got
missed it's just because I was out
hunting or doing something on the planet
that that wasn't near a society terminal
so either that or I was working in real
life and didn't get on does it happen
that happens realistically what probably
happened who knew yeah so just a rewrite
to join our society if you got messed
all right well hey I it was a great job
tonight it was nice having you on the
news and that was fun it's uh that was
intense fun or funny loads no you
did well you always do well yeah uh all
right great that's that's all the time
we have what do we do um I guess we'll
see you next Tuesday then cuz that's
that's it that's the only logical thing
to see you next Tuesday all right yeah
if not before you take care have a great
week thanks for being here with us
category 5 TV and of course you can
follow us on Twitter as well category
five TV is our twitter name as well so
see you next Tuesday thank you
