for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
welcome to episode number 277 of
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
the eighth of January 2013 great to see
you I'm Robbie Ferguson I'm crystal
wells Krista how you been I know I've
been yeah yesterday night let's rush
yeah yes please right delicious
delicious yeah excellent so I'm full oh
and here yeah how's everybody doing I
see a really jam packed show tonight I
can tell you all about it in just a
moment that Chris is gonna tell us
what's coming up in the news and lots
and lots of exciting stuff coming up
tonight get your friends get on Twitter
get on bookface and let everybody know
that this is the show to watch so join
us tonight hey do you call it look face
oh sorry i just did i do that this thing
yeah i do that okay that's cool all
right yeah you know so coming up in the
newsroom right other than Robby is a big
nerd oh that's news yeah well and other
than that Linux is now much more steamy
mm-hmm I dwell around the topic of steam
valve has unveiled its new modular set
top computer built to play steam games
in high def on your big screen TV whoo a
businessman in China has pleaded guilty
to selling pirated US business software
worth more than a hundred million
dollars ooh elite dangerous is on ago so
ground these stories are coming up later
in the show sounds good hey I want to
give a shout out to our chat room we've
got Albert are joining us tonight great
to see a dennis kelly ayotte tick-tock
Rob Gore as well joining us tonight
pyrus rock is joining us on their mobile
how cool is that we've mentioned the
mobile website which i think is really
quite neat Emmett cat5 TV make sure you
check it out how cool is that that's you
just like 30 seconds ago Wow see we did
it I look so old now so mature I know 30
seconds later and wiser not really oh
wow not mature porn wiser
can help mk5 TV is our mobile site and
yeah very cool stuff and also we always
love to get your postcards so make sure
to send them snail mail and all you can
send them to category 5 TV and that's at
p.o box 29 00 9 in Barrie Ontario Canada
l4n 7 w 7 so we have a jam-packed
exciting show for you tonight of course
huge news on you know in the linux
circles this week is the fact that
canonical announced that a boon to is
going mobile we're going to see some
boon to mobile phones so tonight we're
gonna be talking to Richard Collins from
canonical he's the product manager for
ubuntu mobile we're going to be talking
to him in just a few moments time also
you and I are going to be looking at how
to create a mock-up for a web
application that's going to be awesome
really looking forward to that so if you
are interested in building a web
application tonight's your chance to
build something real easy on the fly
we're going to do it live here on the
show we're going to create an entire
mock-up for a web app in like no time
flat make it super easy can it be done
can it be done we'll see leave them
hanging yeah well this is a big week I
mean it's CES week so you know it is
just jam-packed with you know we're just
bombarded with all the new tech stuff
that's coming out very excited to have a
bunch of our friends down at CES
including eco alkalines batteries they
are actually there at south hall for the
Las Vegas Convention Center visit them
at booth number 35 to 21 and there's our
friend Mark and I'll just let you know
Mark is actually he it looks like this
is a still shot but actually this is
live video he is standing so absolutely
still waiting for you to go shake his
hand I can't believe how long he can
keep his eyes open for nothing amazing
it's exceptional we're gonna come back
to you in just a moment mark
not even movement I'm so impressed I
don't know how he does that all you have
to do is just walk right up to him he'll
smile at you he'll shake your hand and
it just let him know that you heard of
eco alkalines here at category 5 TV and
he will give you free swag I'm talking
batteries eco alkaline style
environmentally friendly so check it out
again that's booth number 35 to 21 35 to
21 @ that's the south hall for at the
convention center thanks for joining us
tonight mark it's good seeing you it's
not much of a talker yeah well he's
normally not just saving it he's saving
it for you guys just talking all day
does not this is what I've been going
through yeah he wants to talk to you
okay so he's got free batteries
therefore you will see him all right
speaking of eco alkalines we're going to
have a quick spot I know that Richard is
also standing vibrant be talking to him
at Boone to mobile he's at CES as well
this week so we'll be right back after
this at eco alkalines we believe you
should be able to trust your batteries
not just here but here here and here but
with one exception you should also be
able to trust your batteries here Eco
alkalines of the world's first and only
certified carbon neutral battery
manufactured to the highest standards of
recycling and quality without any trace
amounts of harmful chemicals like
mercury lead or cadmium eco alkalines
provide performance the rivals leading
national alkaline battery brands at a
comparable price find out more about the
Eco alkalines difference Eco alkalines
calm we're joined tonight by Richard
Collins who's the product manager at two
boon to mobile and big announcement this
week is of course that canonical Ubuntu
has made its way or is making its way to
smartphones so very excited to have you
here especially it's a it's a very
timely time Richard and I know that
you're very busy thank you for coming on
the show no problem thank you so this I
mean this is a very exciting thing of
big long-term fans of ubuntu such as
myself we've known for some time this
kind of thing was going to be happening
not really sure what was going to be
happening because everything's kind of
been under embargo and pretty secretive
as far as you know what what exactly is
coming as far as feature sets so very
excited to see now some screenshots and
and and actually know that this that
this product is on its way and so love
to hear from you about the development
process and where things are at as far
as ubuntu mobile goes ok so the
announcement that took place this week
was that you as you said the the new
user interface to allow a pantsuit to
run on smartphone hardware so we've
taken a very specific approach in terms
of how we want to introduce our system
to work on smartphones many people might
remember last year for example at mwc we
launched an urban superandroid product
which allowed the ubuntu desktop to run
directly from smartphone hardware
allowing users of particularly powerful
smartphones to bet smartphone and then
they give get access to the full oven to
pc experience over a desktop monitor and
that that was very encouraging in in in
in in terms of a development work many
because what we're now focusing on is a
system which allows not only a very rich
user experience to run on conventional
smartphone hardware but also the ability
to allow that same desktop experience to
run on the more powerful hardware that
that can also be manufactured Wow now
does this shift the the focus from
ubuntu for android to this actual ubuntu
mobile product or is this a separate
product altogether no it doesn't shift
the the work that we did around up into
for android this work is absolutely in
parallel so and you know we have a
number of interesting discussions taking
place with handset manufacturers that
are very interested in incorporating
that that particular feature on their
higher higher higher end android
hardware
but this is this is something that now
we're going to mark it with our own our
own embedded smartphone platform it's a
it's a natural fit for us to include
that feature with without it with our
work very good now with you know we're
all very familiar with the duopoly
between Apple and Google how does ubuntu
and canonical fit into that so that when
somebody says to me okay well what type
of smartphone do I go with what what is
different about the new ubuntu mobile
that's going to make me say let's look
at who bhuntu on the smartphone as
opposed to Android or Apple's iOS well
fundamentally what's unique about what
we're doing on the smartphone is is its
user experience so it has a very
distinctive look and feel there's
there's a number of particular user
experiences that we've engineered to
create a very rich user interaction so
for example we have a way in which we
allow the user interface to work based
purely in terms of edge swipe so what
are as with you know more conventional
to establish smartphone user experience
such as you know the Android and iPhones
etc that there's a very specific way in
which users hatched interact with
services and we've taken a different
approach in terms of how we in a will
that on the on the smartphone platform
and I know I guess the best way to you
know to show that it is to demonstrate
it and you know I can go to device here
in front of me if you want to sure you
give that a go yes rape it comes across
any you know what comes to mind as
you're talking about just changes in the
interface itself is the the whole Ubuntu
Linux for human beings and that that
pushed to be an easy to use operating
system I can see that transcending to
the mobile platform as well so very
excited to see how this is all coming
together so yeah bring it on man okay
so um is that looking okay yeah yeah we
can see that well okay so this so this
is this is the sort of welcome screen
the home screen that we mentioned it so
that this is a particularly unique sort
of introduction if you like in terms of
it being a reflection of the user's own
own services that operates on the phone
and this one is representing the number
of tweets that have been sent and
received throughout throughout the day
and this can be adapted by the user to
include any number of things such as
emails SMS is until time there those
sorts of things but it's it's what it's
what we've designed as being a
particular unique infographic if you'd
like this very reflective of the way the
user uses their services and their
smartphone well so one thing that I've
been to users will be very familiar with
this is this here which is the launcher
so we don't actually have a lock screen
here because I'm like so so the lock the
lock screen will effectively so what is
different there is no lobstery and as
you as you say in terms of the the
conventional way in which people might
understand that so the way to actually
unlock is effectively to use a swipe to
the front from the right and then you've
got access to to a home screen to a home
screen there but if we just go back and
just access the the the welcome screen
the other thing you can do is
effectively get immediate access to a
whole range of applications so the into
launcher there which is a familiar party
happen to you I allows you to instantly
gain access to a whole range of services
awesome so what's to stop somebody as
far as security goes it looks like yeah
I can get into the phone with no
password or anything is that just
because you don't have a password set or
what what is there as far as security
goes to if I lose my phone to lock that
down so yeah they will they will be an
element of security in there so you can
be some some parts for protection
engineered but for this for this
particular stage right now this is the
demo and this is what we're introducing
kinda story
and and you know that will be available
at CES this week as well people have
come along and and interact with
directly very good know what's the
hardware that we're looking at I mean
you mention about being able to run on
Android hardware so what like can I take
my android tablet and install this on it
or what's the what's the plan with
regards to that or do I gotta go out and
buy on buy new hardware for this so the
plan is to work directly with handset
manufacturers so they will develop and
design and build hardware specifically
to run up into on on smartphones the
hardware that I just showed you is a is
a Galaxy Nexus I mean we chose that
because it's a it's a very open platform
it has all the relevant hardware drivers
that also will run ubuntu the so the
approach there is basically been to take
an available device that we can quickly
work on the needle to show the stage
we've got two right now in terms of our
smartphone development great how does
now 12 has really put a push toward
taking the desktop and putting making it
a part of the cloud and you know cloud
being ubuntu one or or what have you
yeah does does ubuntu mobile factor into
this architecture as well so yeah i've
been to one as our personal cloud
services is an embedded a feature of the
smartphone itself so the that particular
service will ship as a standard feature
within the bit but ended smartphone very
cool now I've got and just as far as my
devices go I've got my boon to computer
which is a desktop computer ubuntu
installed I've got my I mentioned my
android tablet I've got my ipod touch
4th gen that I use in my pocket for
checking email and stuff I'm constantly
going from platform to platform in order
to access my various services so for for
someone like myself that's not such a
bad thing but for a novice user that can
get a little tedious almost difficult in
order to understand how my email on my
desktop relates to my email on my
smartphone because everything is so
different
I with this being a boon to and you know
that I've got to bloom to on my desktop
and now being able to potentially put
ubuntu on a tablet and a smartphone how
is the interface going to be relative
from platform to platform so the the
interface will cover the full family
devices that run the relevant so you
know your examples that you were giving
there in terms of needing the same
services to be readily available across
an ad if range of devices when running
on burn too is a is straightforward
isn't that there's much less complexity
potentially for the user in terms of
having having those same steps is
running on a on a desktop and then be
able to access them and and interact
with them in exactly the same way on a
sale on a tablet or TV or or smartphone
so from an engineering perspective what
we've actually achieved is we've created
a single user interface that will run on
the full family of devices that supports
Bunton so that's particularly
interesting for application developers
for example right because it means if
they're developing application for a
desktop which has equal value in terms
of a smartphone adapting that
application to run on both devices is
very very straightforward the
application developer and that's like a
very important elements what what what
we're introducing that sounds that I
mean that sounds great because I think
that's the way things are going and I
mean you're at the forefront of
technology and and seeing advancements
before we the consumers do but realizing
that everything does seem to be going
the way of the touchscreen but I'm get
trapped I'm still trapped at my desktop
computer i go to work and i sit down on
my desktop computer it would be ideal if
my interface was similar or the same as
what's on my phone what's on my tablet
and then i'm not having to relearn
things as I go so especially what new
devices come out and things like that
speaking of app development Richard just
on that along that line this far into
the smartphone game
I mean here we are how many years into
having iPhones and the Android devices
and everything and and they're so Mari
you know the market is so saturated with
those devices how are you going to
appeal to app developers and what kind
of apps are currently available and you
know the big question is this far in how
how are we going to see those saying the
same level of apps available for ubuntu
mobile which are currently available for
other platforms because that's a big
selling feature for a lot of people
because people who don't care about
linux vs mac OS are gonna say okay well
what can the phone do yeah so what you
know where where does that leave the
development of apps and and from a
consumer perspective so well first off
ubuntu already has a very healthy
because system of application developers
obviously that work has been focused on
desktop applications but nevertheless as
an organization where we're very
experienced and have been very
successful in working and engaging with
application developers on a community
basis and so we we will continue to do
that and expand our work to include not
focus on mobiles yes so we've got a you
know we've got a good history there and
a good standing in terms of application
development the the other area of
interest is you know there's a lot of
attention around web applications and
html5 and all those sorts and you know
we're embracing that so we see that as
very much an important ecosystem in its
in its own right that that we want to
embrace as well so any application
developer that's focused on HTML
developments and it's building you know
really interesting web applications
those applications will run on the bun
too and if and if particular
applications that are HTML based want to
give want to generate a slightly deeper
user experience for for their
applications then we can offer us an
level of system integration as well for
those web applications just to give that
that application are really native fill
in in terms of user experience now is
that a process that's already laid out
and in place or is this something that
has come
and for you know what comes to mind as
we're talking about html5 and the
ability to create web apps is the fact
that you know here at category 5
technology TV we crew we have a web app
and that's how we're able to distribute
our our show on the mobile platform so
we have an actual mobile website and
that loads as an app on iOS and Android
very similarly I mean with is you can
drag it onto your your home screen with
Android you can put it on the dash and
it loads up through the web browser
basically so exciti for someone such as
ourselves what kind of process I mean
why I'm taking a developer perspective
now instead of a consumer perspective
but what what kind of a process is there
in order for me to get that integration
do I have to go through an application
process sir so the process is
established in terms of how you would
want to work with this and make and
publish that application and that's that
that's very available right now one
developer to open to calm so there's
there's a lot of information there right
now which people can go to and ok and
instantly engage with us in it you're
right in terms of a standard web
application you know it's the capability
of the browser and our browser will
support that web app you know alongside
every other sort of a enabled browser to
you know support html5 what we can also
offer is for example the developer can
engineer yet the same web app to be
treated as a almost as a native
application durban to so for example you
know that application where this icon
can sit on the launcher that I showed
you just now so there's what we're doing
is you know sort of reducing
Independence associated with the browser
ritzer off so the web application will
operate completely independently in the
browser right so it's not it's not going
to be completely dependent on the
browser being open the browser running
that the web app itself will will
effectively have its own window window
management resources it will it will it
will look like it's an independent
application the users can switch between
that another
occasions that are opens so what we're
offering particular terms of web
application development is a it's the
ability to allow developers to make a
real native experience around that that
web application okay so now I'd like to
get back to speaking about you know what
the end users are going to see but just
still on the developer front is there
going to be any kind of HTML SDK or
something for us developers to be able
to use to create apps that look like
they're part of the ubuntu mobile system
yes sir there's a there's a developer
preview SDK available right now on
ubuntu com /go mobile that that
particular focus right now is about
engaging with more native application
development so we have a course of
applications which are running right now
we have a very particular design that we
want to that we want to use to embrace
new application developers so for
example we've got a qml toolkit yeah
which we're using to allow people to
develop applications that provide a
really rich user experience something
that you no html5 web app simply is in a
position to deliver right now so we're
taking a jeweled approach in terms of
the range of applications and the types
of application developers that we want
to work with right but you know i would
encourage people to go to adventure calm
for psycho mobile and see the
information that we've got laid out
there to see just how how can they do
they can engage with this today that
sounds fantastic i'm excited to think
that you know will be able to actually
launch an app on the ubuntu mobile
platform that's that's very cool so
beyond that I mean you're at CES this
week so can people come and take a look
at the devices at CES so absolutely yeah
so I'm a focus this week is is the
launch of the smartphone platform so
we've got a lot of people there with a
lot of devices that people can come
along to the stand and come talk to us
about it and interact with it and and
tell us what they think I mean it's it's
it's great opportunity for people to
come along and
see it in the flesh very good so where
are we as far as you know how soon can
we get I mean that's going to be the
question on every every user's mind how
soon can I get this okay if an early
teaser you know and it is yeah so we've
announced because we want to set in
motion the whole time frame which is
targeting availability at the beginning
of 2014 that's that's when we believe we
can see these these devices come to
market what we're doing right now is it
were in deep discussion with industry
partners times that manufacturers and
carriers yeah all of all of which we
need to make quite a bit of progress
between now and the end at the end of
this year before we can firm up some
proper time frames as to when the hard
work will be available but but yeah in
terms of when people can expect to see
shipments it's going to be about a year
from now which okay yeah so early 2014
kind of kind of time I would say that
yet very good back at just quickly about
apps and things is there somewhere that
users can find out what apps are going
to be available do you foresee for
example I mean I think about things like
Skype being available on multiple
platforms is that is that something that
you foresee being being available on a
boon to mobile as well not necessarily
that one app but are we going to see the
same apps coming across to your platform
as well from from the desktop G from
other mobile devices compared x devices
so yeah I mean there's there's a number
of different areas we can we can address
in terms of enabling a whole range of
applications that run under the mobile
app forms to run on to run on ubuntu so
there with there's there's a number of
different options that we're
investigating as I say and but yeah
that's absolutely an objective for
resist to make you know as many
applications available as easily to run
on ubuntu so yeah that's very much part
of our focus well that's that's
excellent i'm glad that that's a focus
and so for the end user I mean it's
important to understand that we are very
early as far as
you know from an end-user perspective as
far as the apps go but that you know
this is under development sounds like
going to be ready in about a year's time
for for us to actually pick one up and
start playing with it so very exciting
stuff and hope that CES is a great time
for you guys and and certainly an
exciting time to be making an
announcement like this and and you know
that that's going to be all the buzz so
and this has been kind of in the back of
Canonical's mind i believe for for you
know several years to be working toward
the mobile platform almost i think back
in two thousand nine when I was talking
to mark shuttleworth on the show it
really came up that he was visionary as
far as where he wanted to take Ubuntu
and here we are it's 2013 January and
he's actually seeing that dream come to
fruition and so you know congratulations
to mark and to canonical the entire
development team it's it's an exciting
time and really exciting to see where
this is going to go over the next you
know once you've launched and and
everybody is able to actually get one of
these I'm excited to see where it's
going to take not just canonical and a
boon to but linux in general I mean this
is this is an exciting time for you know
you're you're you've become huge players
over the past five years + + + + + and
you know one of the the leading I guess
the leading kind of desktop and and now
you're working on to the the mobile
platform as well so very exciting stuff
thank you yeah as you say it's been an
ambition of Mark and canonical for some
time to move the bun to in to touch base
of all faxes and the announcement was
generated enormous positive response so
I think a lot of what has been in a
particular interest about what we
announced is obviously the user
experience but also about you know the
openness of of what we're doing as well
this will be a completely open platform
so you know and we and we want to work
with community to make sure that they've
got early access to as much code as
possible so even though I said that
there was a time frame associated with
Hardware run to
and 14 you know that that's geared
around working with you know sort of
handset manufacturers but right before
that before that Libya like I can see
people rooting their Android devices and
then here we go right is there gonna
code a source code available in advance
that people could start playing around
with that kind of stuff they will be
source code in a divorce you fantastic
richwood thank you so much for joining
us here on category 5 technology TV
tonight CES where can we find you do you
know where you're at oh god I haven't
memorized the exact location if it folks
could go to the main website there is
that it's there on the front page and
people can come and see us and please do
because it's it's it's a really exciting
uniquely designed smartphone experience
and we've got Otis to as many people as
possible I'd love to get my hands on it
all right Richard thanks so much for
being with us ok have a go thanks Robbie
cheers this is category 5 TV category 5
TV is a member of the tech podcast
network of its tech it's here and the
International Association Association of
Internet broadcasters and here are the
top stories from the category 5 TV news
room it's official steam is available
for Linux steam is a system which brings
a ton of great games to Windows Mac and
now Linux the initial list of Linux
games is impressive though most are
Indies or off-brand but the list is
growing fast and we can expect some
big-name games between now and the
staple release the betta of steam for
Linux is available now on their official
website steampowered com excellent more
big news from valve is their newly
unveiled modular pc designed to let
users play steam games on their TV
codenamed piston that's piston not
pissed on oh dear yeah just in case okay
okay got it one more time just so we
know you have it piston okay the system
which is developed by xi3 and funded by
valve was just unveiled at the CES trade
show in Las Vegas does the sorry set-top
box will allow users to access thousands
of gaming the title
through an integrated system Jason
Sullivan founder and chief executive of
xi3 said this new development stage
product will allow users to take full
advantage of their large high-definition
TV displays for an amazing computer game
experience noise as a result this new
system could provide access to thousands
of gaming titles through an integrated
system that exceeds the capabilities of
leading game consoles but can fit in the
palm of your hand Wow despite the tiny
but powerful device being on display
this week at CES no details of the
international hardware have been given
yet or the internal hardware no what I
meant was that a we joke and no no but
if you're laughing those good
dollars Wow Oh yang Lee search for hack
software on internet forums before
advertising them for sale on his
websites which offered more than 2000
pirated tales hmm the parted programs
were then transferred to customers via
gmail and mr. Lee and a second suspect
collected payment through money transfer
services the pirated software was said
to be sold for as little as twenty
dollars up to 12,000 all twelve hundred
dollars sorry which 0 which the retail
value of the products much higher
ranging from several hundred dollars to
more than 1 million dollars apiece what
ooh what a bargain so you mean to tell
me that for 1,200 bucks I can get a 1
million dollar piece of software well
you off work you could bite but wow it
be shiny I hope must be laughter cold
Platinum Edition software yeah yeah Casa
fool all-stars the groups maybe star
stickers that'd be nice I never know
well still in the blank yeah games on
the back million dollars haha the scam
came to light after us manufacturer
discovered his company software being
sold on the suspicious website and
notified authorities mr. Lee was
arrested by US agents after an 18-month
undercover operation he has pleaded
guilty to conspiracy to commit criminal
copyright violations and wire fraud
lawyer said he was pretty proud of
himself he did not realize it was such a
big crime well good on ya so all that's
off where the like to think that there's
buckets and bins of printed software
that's just been downloaded off the
internet and resold mm-hmm I'm just most
pleased that he's very happy with
himself yeah yeah it's kind of scary
though if you didn't realize that that's
such a big deal being like there's a mad
compass that says that stealing
something and then putting it on a disk
and making it look like the original and
then selling it right well I think it's
the whole thing that if it's not
tangible late yeah like it's not really
as big a deal electronics yeah doesn't
even really realize that it's kind of
like you know when you download music
and movies and stuff like that like is
it people think it's not a big deal
right you know by freedom talking
something from walmart would you down
with us yeah but would you download a CD
yeah that's a twenty-dollar CD and then
make a website that sells it for two
dollars personally no but that's kind of
in the same category it kind of sounds
like what he's doing he's doing that's
wild crazy stuff wow that and we talked
about it back in November on episode 268
it looks like it's going to happen the
plan to update the classic 80s space
trading game elite has hit its funding
target the game first appeared in 1984
but one of the game's original creators
wanted to make a modern PC version David
Brabham Raven sought 1.25 million pounds
via crowdsourcing site kickstarter to
fund the 21st century update a
last-minute surge of pledges helped it
reached its goal about 48 hours before
friday's funding deadline and ended with
about a quarter million dollars more
than they needed I smiley because it
says that last surge I'm sure that was
Robbie that was all wrong one going oh
yeah you need more funds who are almost
there yeah take a quarter of a million
dollars that i just happened to have
sitting around in donation money yeah
i'll just give that to the game no but i
didn't do that
but i'll show you i don't know if you
guys remember this here's what it looked
like in 1984 whoo techie this is what
we're all so excited about what are you
laughing at that's it looks like fun so
that was it and then and now you're
showing me this new screenshot this is
see that looks cool that looks funky
that's got to be an artist rendering
because the game hasn't been launched
yet but I know that they've been working
kind of on the development based on the
story but that's gonna be awesome cool
and that does look like fun I would play
space shooters why not we're in space do
you get to shooting shooters yeah cool
man well if you're interested you can
get the full stores at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category 5 TV news room is
research by roy w nash with
contributions by our community of yours
if you have a news story that you think
it's worthy of on-air mention you can
email us at news room at category 5 TV
for the category 5 TV news room on
crystals Thank You Christa wells
tonight's show is brought to you in part
by quarter II electrical contracting inc
you can find their information on your
screen or visit their website quarter
eee electric com and they will provide
you with any kind of electrical needs
within central ontario so if you have a
need if you're doing a building or
renovation job make sure you give them
call thats quarter electric also we'd
love to give you a free one month trial
of netflix cat five dot TV / netflix
make sure you go sign up what more can
you say there you go cat five dot TV /
netflix heather was saying well if you
go to netflix.com or dot CA you get it
for free for a month anyways yes why why
would I go to cat five TV / Netflix cuz
it takes me love us because you loved us
enough to simply click that link instead
which tells Netflix that they're
advertising dollars are effective here
and so then they want to buy your
favorite Linux tech show new cameras and
microphones and
shiny thing new shirts that's the same
shirt you were wearing like before
previously for weeks Wow because
somebody went to Netflix dot see a cat5
TV / netflix is where you go there you
go I'm sure that what it's an extra
parking we need like a like one of those
machines that just plays sad music
whenever you tackle is push a button
minutes his tiny piano there a kid on
the island good idea good idea thanks
hey this is category five technology TV
thank you so much for joining us tonight
hope you're having fun nice to have here
our website of course is triple w dot
category five dot TV there it is on your
screen make sure you check us out and
viewer points this week are racking up
because we reintroduce that last week so
you'll see this down the right-hand
column we do now have a top ten viewers
and that is based on your logins so make
sure that you log in every single day in
order to compete in that competition
work your way up the list and promote
your profile so check that out cool Rob
Gore hey no guilt trip alright well
any viewer questions in the chat room
will give you a quick second otherwise
we're going to jump right into our
feature which is creating mock-up
tonight's pretty exciting i'm going to
create a mock-up but well we could just
jump right into it can't we folks why
not both feet in all right mom watch the
chat room sky this is my bad I icy Rock
or their lazy eye hey JimBob media hey
Rob Gore again he's like it's rock or
chat room tonight why not yeah Krista
you're a graphic designer you build
websites I do fantastic things just what
I do too you know not so much as a
graphic designer but and you know me I'm
a terrible artist well I don't want to
say anything but if you're gonna write
omit it well I mean I my daughter seven
I mean when I do a mock-up it's it's
gonna look like it's like that kind of
is that what you show your clients
that's what I don't because I'm
embarrassed become doodle I like it I'm
terrible i am terrible i mean you've got
talent so when i cain't graphic design
town we think at least that's a talent
uh seriously though you you can sit down
you can sketch something on a sketch pad
and it looks better than that it does
definitely look better than what i can
do so but then there are people like me
who have directly challenged not
artistically challenged I can't get the
visual from my brain to the pen ah
artistically though it's all in there oh
yeah it's in there you just can't get it
out I need one of those machines that
taps into my brain and like just using
it out for you and yeah there's an idea
sounds like dr. spayed so preferably
that would be cool but I'm no good at
actually pencil penciling it so tonight
I want to look at a tool that is gonna
help me right because it says I can't do
the the great drawings that you do it's
going to help you because every time
busy it's like it's a time thing because
you're too busy to sit down with a
sketch pad and draw everything excellent
oh oh who is type who has time and
what's worth what's the worst thing
about doing
mockups when it comes to web
applications or anything at all what
happens when customer says okay you know
what I don't like challenging you I want
the menu down the side yeah and you've
done up the whole thing in like
Photoshop or something after i scratch
scratch go through all your layers and
find it or yeah that's kind of a cool
and Amish so let's make it simple for
ourselves make it fast make it easy make
it look good make it so that I can pull
together a mock-up in just a couple
seconds flat so what we're going to do
is we're going to check out balsamiq
mockups desktop you can check it out it
i've created a quick link for you it is
cat five dot TV / mock-ups so let's head
there right now cat five dot TV slashed
mock-ups here we go there we are now
here's something that's really cool i
want to show you this krista this will
blow your mind because you can download
it of course okay or if you want to just
get your feet wet try a web demo and the
web demo allows you to create your
mock-ups it will actually load in a
browser window and it will allow you to
create your mock-ups and even export
them what right through wrong okay
that's just cool but tonight we're gonna
use that as a fail-safe so that if if
all else fails we can fall back on the
website right because you can always do
that here's the great thing too about
mock-ups desktop or just mock-ups in
general from balsamic is that you can
run it on your computer linux mac or
windows but if you don't have access to
that computer in my instance i've got it
on my computer in the office i'm working
away creating mock-ups but I don't have
it up in where we show websites and
thanks to our clients so instead I'll
just bring up the web demo up in in that
room and then things still do it yeah
and I can still work on those mock-ups
so let's let's actually get this I'll
show you real quick what it is I mean
you saw what's here but basically it
allows the easy moving and manipulation
of any of these elements within your
mock-ups right now this is just a quick
demo that they
already put in really really easy to do
things like you know pop in a browser
window there it is right so I can create
a browser window and put put it all
together so basically an ability to
create sketch like mock-ups I can
explain why that is but sketch like
mock-ups as if I didn't did it on paper
very very quickly and easily and easy to
edit it down the road so let's install
it on my linux machine I want to make
this make this work so I'm gonna go
download mock-ups for desktop you'll see
that by default it is giving me the
Linux 32-bit it will probably you know
try to detect what you're running but
look if you scroll down there are more
options so I'm not actually going to use
their quick link because i want the
64-bit version because i'm on a 64-bit
linux computer the way to tell that on
linux is to go into your terminal and
type in the following command you named
dash a hit enter and you'll see that
your Colonel ends in what type of
architecture it is in my case it's x86
underscore 64 the 64-bit or the 64
represents 64-bit if it was 32 bit it
would say I 386 ok so that's how you
determine real real quick on your linux
machine whether you're 32 or 64 bit so
from there I know that I want the 64-bit
Debian package notice that it's already
compiled as a dev or if I don't have
debian if I'm running redhat or
something similar then I can just grab
the air cross-platform file and use it
there or i can again use the web demo
I'm going to use the Debian package I
can actually save it to my computer now
chromium here is warning me that it's a
it could be a malicious program because
it's an installable so i'm going to say
keep and now it's there so let's open
the folder double-click on it and see
what happens
Here I am with a boon to software center
and notice this dependency is not
satisfiable Adobe AIR this was one of
what i want to show you adobe air was
actually discontinued for linux but
still functions in version 2.5 2.6 so
what I've done is I've created a real
quick hot link for you to be able to
install mock-ups using Adobe AIR we're
going to go to simply cat five dot TV /
air and hit enter this is only a
necessary step if you're on linux
because that's going to give you the
adobe air installer binary file okay so
that's grabbing that to my desktop or to
my computer right now it's saving it
into my downloads there it is i'm going
to right click on it go properties
permissions and allow executing as a
program now we'll see if it runs if I
just double-click on it now it's
probably gonna know so what I'm going to
do is I'm going to go into terminal I'm
whizzing through but if you follow along
you're going to see what's going on here
and I'm going to put all this
information in the show notes for
episode number 277 I'm gonna go into my
downloads folder there it is now you can
see that the file is there so I'm gonna
go dot slash you know what I'm going to
have to go sudo dot slash a tab okay so
it's going to install a super user enter
my super user password that's the load
up the GUI if all is good we can ignore
that error message just with regards to
the to gtk I have just read that very
very quickly why are you laughing why
are you thinking well you should always
read through it you never know yeah but
I mean because Robbie so skilled and
everything she does reading done I'm
like that I'm like a robot hmm
yeah adobe air is a platform that is
that unfortunately you know it has been
discontinued for linux but it is as you
see still installable still functional
and still stable so we're good to go so
now that i've installed adobe air we can
double click on that mock-ups for
desktop debian package again and you'll
notice that Ubuntu Software Center is
going to tell me something a little bit
different here it tells me nothing
because that error is now gone all the
dependencies are met I'm good to go i'm
going to click on install enter my super
user password i was asking me if I want
to update Adobe AIR you can do that i
would recommend it it's going to give
you two point six but just for the sake
of the show because we're live on the
air we're going to just ignore that
update but like I say I do recommend
that you do that okay because that's
gonna give you two point six point 0
point 0 and that's going to get you up
to the latest version of adobe air for
linux before they cut it off so you'll
have all the fixes your goes it looks
like we're done done and done close out
of ubuntu software center close out all
the stuff if you want applications
accessories balsamiq mockups you see
that there now applications accessories
ball so much much i just look for the
smiles so happy what do you want to do I
of course I read it there we go loading
up what do you notice looks just like
that web interface that we were looking
wow just like it okay so step one to
creating our mock-up I mean this has got
to be really really easy right because
we said I'll be able to create a mock-up
so customer comes in and they say okay
I've got this idea I want to create a
new mapping system it's you going to use
the google maps api version 3 point but
it's going to be my own system we're
going to put pins on the map and we're
going to allow people to add their own
garage sales to this map okay so here's
the here's the concept that has been
brought to us so we can sit down and we
can create this you know the whole
system and we can go through all the
hoops of you know that takes hours upon
hours to do
or we can sit down with balsa man jumps
desktop and just with this out for our
customer so let's do this first of all a
browser window we just drag and drop it
we call it my garage sale system HTTP my
fake garage sales com and then just
click it anywhere and you notice it is
crab browser window that says that now I
said I'd tell you why this looks like a
draft and the concept that balsamic is
is taken with mock-ups desktop is to say
you know if we make it look too much
like a polished system then people are
going to look at it and say no you know
what I don't like the color exam again
with that shape right because what we're
actually doing is we're creating
something that we don't want them to see
the finished product we want them to see
the concept this is a prototype for just
us and end users typically don't don't
grasp that but I think what you see is
what you line it okay it's going to end
up looking like on the site so by going
with this kind of look where it's
sketched and pencil drawn it really
gives the customer or you know your
whoever you're working with it gives
them the impression that this is
something that is a draft it's something
that we're going to build upon and this
is just layouts and ideas being put to
paper so that's what we're actually
doing here and that's why it has that
look where it's it's very sketched okay
so now what I want to do is I want to
say okay well first and foremost and now
you've probably got a bigger monitor
than me so I have to do a little bit
more scrolling than than I would like
you'll notice that as I as I click on
this item I can resize it and tells me
how big it is so I can design this
specifically for this I want to make it
for 1024 x 768 or something right so I
can actually do that and I can click
over here and I can change the height
too
accommodate that screen size so now that
that window is in fact that size okay so
we're going to create a menu system so
we're going to use up at the top here
things like buttons right there's a menu
here button bar and let's get started
with our website so we can go home about
us listings add a listing let's just say
for example okay so we're going to put
that into our browser window and then
we're going to say we're going to create
a logo we need to you know again this is
just a mock-up so let's let's grab
something of an icon for example so
notice what I've done is I've clicked on
media up at the top and I'm going to
grab an icon here and drag it onto my
see how easy that is just drag and drop
i'm going to call this garage sale
system snead how easy it is just to
rename things like that just like not
not only that but now that I've clicked
on that element I get this and this
allows me to change that element to
whatever I want so i can actually click
on this down arrow and i can i can make
this look like any of these pre
prefabricated little sketches Oh smiley
face you wanna share finally face for
the garage sales for sure I would think
like something like that would be more
appropriate Krista know you want people
would be happy okay notice how I
rescaled that okay definitely a smiley
face okay thank you so over here again I
can scale that see that okay so that's
we're pretending that that's my logo now
we can you know change the font weight
we've made it bold there and and various
little things like that ok so now click
out of that element and now I can move
around grab things move them around so
now we said that this is going to have a
map on it so we're going to drag the map
down and we're going to say okay this is
our street map which is going to have
some pins which are going to show us
where the garage sales are for this o
for the sake of our mock-up we're going
to go into media here we're going to
grab an icon we're going to drop it
there we're going to go down and we're
going to grab
you know a pin or something along those
lines so now we've got up a pin I can
put it there just for the sake of my
mock up okay so then we're going to have
you know just go through the prompts and
see what it is that you'd like to
include on your mock-up but essentially
you're going to need things like forms
where you're going to have various kinds
of input for the user who's going to be
adding a listing but we're actually on
the homepage here we're pretending or
let's click on this will say no we're
actually on the listings page okay so
I've just changed what's highlighted see
how I did that so now I'm going to throw
in some text so we're going to go up to
when in doubt you can always go all but
under common oh there's text over on the
right hand side here that kind of
streamlines it even further I can grab
some text and I can go okay garage sale
make that bold this is my h1 tag and
let's grab a paragraph of text paste
that in we're going to say
to do to my way Barrie Ontario there you
go phone 7 05 7757 dude oh hey go so
notice that the tabs actually position
things quite well nice and nice and easy
okay so there's my listing so now I'm
going to save that will first create a
folder will call this garage sale system
and I'm going to save this as listings
within that folder ok so now if I click
on the menu and go show linking
inspector what I can actually do is I
can create not just a mock-up now but I
can actually create this as a prototype
so when I sit down with my client I can
show them what clicking on listings will
do 8 ok so i can actually create a link
here so i've clicked on that and now i'm
going to change listings to actually
point to listings because remember i
saved a file called listings be FML ok
so now anything that I put into the
garage sale system will become options
that I can link to so now I'm going to
save that again and I'm going to go file
save as and I'm going to create one
called a delisting ok so now open reopen
listings and I'm going to click on my
menu again and I'm going to go to add a
listing here and I'm going to tell it to
go to the file add a listing someone
clicks on that save that now back at my
add a listing file see I'm using the
tabs at the bottom here I'm going to
change things a little bit and let's
make this a form so wait for the sake of
my mock up we can grab form elements up
here at the top so for my address for
example I'm going to use like a text
input
put that right there notice how it lines
everything up for us to do let's go say
I noticed when you clicked on the map
earlier how it had those key lines on
there everything is really neat video
centering onwards see that blue line
tells me that it's exactly centered to
garage sale I'll zoom in just a little
bit for those of you with lower
resolution so see those lines that it
creates shows me how it's lined up to my
elements okay so this is going to be an
input field right there so we're now
mocking up the a delisting so now my
phone number
there we go so now I've got a phone
number field as well if I decide you
know what let's make this actually a
text area I can put in a bigger box and
see how quickly and easily I can move
things around and change the way that my
interface works so drag that there we go
so now I've got this click on my menu
and change add a listing to go to add a
listing and also make it so that the
active selection is add a listing
because that's the file that I'm working
on say that so I'm going to save that
now I have two files i'm going to click
on this full screen presentation mode
over on the right hand side and now i'm
actually presenting this to my customer
and i can say okay well here we are and
what we're actually doing here is we're
adding a listing to your monitoring
system so what we can do now once we've
entered that information here is we can
click on listings and it's going to
actually show that information cool so
really really quickly we can throw
together something that is a
presentation for our customers and
literally can do that right the snap of
a finger practically so once you've got
the layout in place and you can you can
start working on it and send it over to
the customer so now you know do we have
to have balsamic mock-ups desktop in
order to present this well that's the
problem right because how do you now
send be FML files your customers so the
next step would be to say okay well if
we want to ask to send this as a
presentation let's pretend we're
finished and this is mock-up number one
we're going to go file and we're going
to go export all mock-ups to PDF and
we're gonna go you know you can do
whatever you want i'm going to go
optimized for viewing show linking hints
and start my export there it goes save
it into the same folder for me and i'm
going to call this mock-up one dot PDF
for that particular customer ok so now
going to close out of all of this and on
my desktop in that folder i now have a
PDF file there it is mock-up one PDF and
as I bring this up because everyone has
an Adobe Reader or something similar now
I'm actually here I
on linux i'm using document viewer right
so now here I've got the mock-up and if
I click it actually allows me to
navigate that mock-up I know you can't
see my mouse cursor I'm hovering over
listings right now I click on it there's
my listings hovering over a delisting
there goes it's actually navigating the
pages of that PDF file so it gives us a
chance to create something send it to
the customer really really quickly now
we've had little time and to do that
tonight but you can see how quickly and
easily you can you can watch something
up and then when you go into development
it's so much easier when you've got that
drawing to be at two yeah actually
something exact to go by or really close
that I always meet there you have it you
can download that a game from kick at
five dot TV / mock-ups give it a try
there's a free trial the single user
license is $79 definitely worth it
especially if you're doing this for
business it's gonna save you so much
time it's going to make things so much
easier for you I can attest to that and
it's a good chance for you to be able to
impress your customers as well everybody
who I've sent a mock up to I said oh
that looks great good failed exactly
that's all the time that we have for
tonight I'm sorry I didn't let you talk
about no viewer questions tonight either
well sorry folks we've been trying to
block genre but I've been blah blah blah
and it was really awesome to have
Richard on the show as well and you know
that was unexpected because that
announcement happened last Tuesday like
like just a week ago today so we were
really you know oh look at that we got
to talk about that and we're already
gonna be talking about mock-ups so if
you didn't get a chance to get your
question in make sure you know okay
email the co-host I'll get you next be
live at category 5 TV you have fun
anyway all right loads of fun Thank
kidding all right all right we learned
lots tonight very exciting stuff next
week of course we're going to be
continuing at CES and we're going to
have our friends from Le I are actually
going to be talking to us around the
show so make sure you don't miss it and
lots of exciting stuff going on at the
show check out our website category five
dot TV make sure you registered if
you're not already registered that's how
you're going
be able to accumulate your viewer points
and that's gonna be able to get you some
rewards down the road so thanks for
joining us tonight good to see you guys
thanks Krista we'll see y'all take
everybody have a great week we hope you
enjoy the show category 5 TV broadcasts
live from Barrie Ontario Canada every
tuesday at seven pm eastern if you're
watching this on demand or if you cable
TV check out the local show times in
your area at category 5 TV and find out
when you can watch live and interact in
the community chat room category 5 is a
production of quantity digital solutions
and is licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
