hi everyone welcome to new every day my
name is Carrie my name is jen and on
stage show we're going to talk about but
what if you get in trouble for talking
about the man behind the mission so
hi thanks for tuning in again to new
every day so glad that you have taken
some time to listen or watch and thank
you to all those people who have checked
out our partners page me a free day TV
click on partners and see all the
amazing organizations supporting cuttin
each week to make this possible so over
the last couple of weeks we've been
talking about the book of Acts working
from chapter one now we are on chapter
four and Peter and John just healed a
man in the name of Jesus yeah jumped up
and walked and people are really stirred
up about it and Peter then takes that
opportunity after this man who was lame
from birth it takes the opportunity to
say it was not us who did this it was
actually the name of Jesus the power of
God and you acted in ignorance when you
killed Jesus but now you have this
opportunity to repent that times of
refreshing may come so now we're in
chapter 4 and can I go ahead and read
that Jess hit it where am I going to
you're going to 22 right then this is in
the New King James Version now as they
spoke to the people the priests the
captain of the temple and the Sadducees
came upon them being greatly disturbed
that they taught the people and preached
in Jesus the resurrection from the dead
and they laid hands on them and put them
in custody until the next day for it was
already evening however many of those
who heard the word believed and the
number of men came to about 5,000 and it
came to pass on the next day that their
rulers elders and scribes as well as
Ana's the high priest Caiaphas John and
Alexander and as many as were of the
family of the high priests were gathered
together at Jerusalem and when they had
set them in the mid in the midst they
asked by what power or by what name have
you done this then Peter filled with the
Holy Spirit said to them rulers of the
people and elders of Israel if we this
day are judged for a good deed done to a
helpless man by what means he has been
made well let it be known to you all and
to all the people of Israel that by the
name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth
whom you crucified whom God raised from
the dead by him this man stands here
before you whole this is the stone which
was rejected by you builders which has
become the chief Cornerstone nor is
there salvation in any other for there
is no other name under heaven given
among men by which we must be saved now
when they saw the boldness of Peter and
John and perceived that they were
uneducated and untrained men they
marveled and they realized that they had
been with Jesus and seeing the man who
had been healed standing with them they
could say nothing against it but when we
had commanded them to go aside out of
the council they conferred among
themselves saying what shall we do to
these men for indeed that a notable
miracle has been done through them is
evident to all who dwell in Jerusalem
and we cannot deny it but so that it
spreads no further among the people let
us severely threaten them that from now
on they speak to no man in this name so
they called them and commanded them not
to speak at all nor teak in the name of
Jesus but Peter and John answered and
said to them whether it is right in the
sight of God to listen to you more than
God you judge mm-hmm for we cannot but
speak the things which we have seen and
heard so when they had further
threatened them they let them go finding
no way of punishing them because of the
people since they all glorified God for
what had been done for the man was over
40 years old on whom this miracle of
healing had been performed there's so
much in this passage there's so much and
and we started off this session by
saying like what you do when you get in
trouble for talking about the man behind
the mission and because they were saying
some very key claims about who Jesus was
so you actually have to think about both
of these who are they talking to they're
talking to the Sadducees the temple
guards and the priests that's very very
very important because the Sadducees do
not or did not did not believe
in the resurrection of the dead right
they didn't believe that it's like once
you died that's it that's it and so
that's that's a key part here because it
says they were proclaiming in Jesus the
resurrection of the dead so Peter was
very clear says they were greatly
disturbed because the apostles were
teaching people and proclaiming in Jesus
the resurrection of the dead so this
hatch these are like hold on go no
further ha cuz it I don't know if you've
ever been a position where your faith or
your belief in something was rocked like
you're like if I accept this as if that
is true then everything I believe in is
wrong hmm because that is that is the
place the Sadducees are in right now so
they were sad you see they are and on
that note okay Jeff what are you doing
with your happy goggles I'm watching cat
five what do you mean look at her out
hey oh yeah category five is in 360
video now well not really but sees
antennas starting and we've got a very
special two-hour special that is shot in
360 video so get your happy goggles
ready folks if you got google cardboard
or whatever you've got make sure you get
it ready or you can swipe on your phone
on your tablet yeah that's pretty cool
you're gonna get a 360 view of the
studio and be able to say hi to some of
your favorite co-hosts of times gone by
Jeff's gonna be here I will be here sash
is gonna be here okay you're gonna be
here so make sure you join us that is
happening on September 27th as we kick
off season 10 of category 5 technology
TV if you don't have google cardboard or
any kind of virtual reality viewing
device it's okay as I say you can use
your phone your tablet or even
use your mouse on youtube in order to
control the camera you're going to be
able to actually control where you look
as the show goes forth you don't want to
miss it as a two-hour special for season
10 as we kick it off on September 27th
in the meantime we're going to be
opening up skype video for our viewers
to call in and say hi you're going to be
able to talk to your favorite co-host so
make sure you get that pre-tested and
plan to call in think about the things
that you'd like to reminisce about as
you've been watching category 5 TV over
the years so it's happening again
September 27 you want to be here as we
kick off season 10 in 360 video don't
miss it see you there okay we are back
and Jen you were just talking about the
sadducees how they were rocked by Peter
saying if this is Jesus the resurrection
of the dead who has done this miracle
yeah and they were like like whoa you
cannot talk about this you like and at
the end of the passage they actually
like let them go but say you can't talk
about this anymore and one of the
reasons why they were saying you can't
talk about this anymore was was one that
would radically change what they
believed and if that was true then that
would have a huge impact on I want to
say their social status now as part of
the ruling council of the Jews so that
it has because you know if this is true
and this is radically going to change
what we believe in our inner level of
living like it or how we live so it's
not just what we believe but how we live
is radically going to change too and we
actually like it because if they have
authority because what they believe to
beach is true according to them and they
have followers who believe the same
doesn't that gives them authority over
those people and over those teachings
yeah but if that suddenly changed they
no longer have that authority yes but
what's interesting is a disciple say we
are testifying to what we have seen yes
and heard yeah this is
then this is the reality and the
definition of truth is that it it it
points to reality it lines up with
reality right you are wearing a seafoam
I think what color is that a seafoam
shirt I see it we talked about it that's
real that's real yes so it's nice I
really like it verse 12 says salvation
is found in no one else for there's no
other name under heaven by which men to
given to men by which we must be safe
saved like they're saying no no no no no
like Jesus is the only name that can
that can save people is by the name of
Jesus Christ of Nazareth who you
crucified by whom God raised from the
dead that this man stay it stands healed
he is the only one that can save and so
when you make a claim I have a hair in
my mouth again there we go but when you
make a claim like that say Jesus is the
only one that flies in the face of every
single other religion it's when you say
the word only its exclusive and people
don't like things that are exclusive no
they don't which is why a lot of people
I speak with today are trying to embrace
some of like Eastern ideologies because
it seems more inclusive because you can
believe a little bit of everything as
long as you're a good person and that's
all cool that's their understanding of
it it's not exclusive and I think in our
culture exclusivity has been kind of a
no-no rightly one include everyone yeah
but they're mistaking being like
welcoming and a good type of Tolerance
yeah to mean that you have to actually
believe what they yeah what they say
yeah and care use an interesting word
about this idea of exclusivity we don't
like it right well because it in our
perception it put limp it puts limits on
what we can say and do and like because
when you believe in Jesus then you
believe
Jesus he is the only one and as you were
talking I immediately went to it's a
similar with a husband and wife it's
exclusive it is just a husband and wife
and so many people are like well no no
no no I want to I want to play the field
and my husband's okay with it then
whatever yeah I had a friend tell me
that that her husband was fine if she
looked elsewhere outside their marriage
for love yeah and that kind of makes you
go oh something about that is not right
yeah but where do you draw the line if
you don't have if you don't have a moral
framework from what you're working and
anything goes yeah if Jesus is not your
exclusive Savior yeah then you will turn
to everything and everything seems okay
and then you can start to wonder why as
in versuri you aren't experiencing those
times of refreshment like and this is
what I'm learning more and more we often
say we have no rules no regulations no
like that that isn't freedom but true
freedom comes actually in being able to
i want to say play and jump and romp
inside the fence of rules and
regulations there's actually great
freedom they're there to know what I can
do and and to take great joy in that and
and the joy that comes from being with
you know one man and one woman together
forever is safety and security and no
doubt or it's just like yeah and that's
the good thing about Jesus is when he
says I am the way the truth and the life
no man comes to the Father but by me he
is actually offering you an exclusive
relationship in which you can experience
safety security provision defending like
it's all it's all we will ever need cuz
cuz he says that I am all you need and
there's a million angles at which you
can fall and be unsteady you know that
might seem okay but there's only one
that makes you stand firm stand up
straight there is only one angle and
then is the Lord Jesus and I really like
by CS lewis says i believe in
christianity as i believe that the Sun
has risen not because not because I see
it but because by it i see everything
else Jesus there's a quote in the Psalms
I believe it says in your light we see
light and I never understood that but I
kind of take it to mean that when Jesus
gives you a new perspective of the world
when you believe that he is the way the
truth and the life he illuminates the
rest of reality and by his light you see
like by his light you see the rest of
the world and helps you interpret these
things through that lens of Christianity
right where were we good well the fact
is Peter makes these claims yeah right
so the man is healed he directs it to
Jesus as the healer and then he gets in
trouble he gets in trouble for saying
the statement you know Jesus was raised
from the dead and by him no one can be
saved like no one out you cannot be
saved by anyone else but Jesus so then
he gets in trouble like they actually
they go to jail he and John go to jail
for sticking to their convictions to
their beliefs by proclaiming the truth
they go to jail I've never had to go to
jail for Jesus like one of the questions
that came up as i was reading this
passage was you know what is the
persecution that I've received from
following Christ and I was I was teased
in school um you know cuz i wouldn't do
certain things and so then my friends
yep we're tease me and they would make
fun of me and oh you can't do this
because you're a christian and oh you're
so data and you know and you're kind of
like oh wow because that feels
uncomfortable but compared to going to
prison I know I haven't been quite a
pretty good I know sees me I was reading
a story about a woman I want to see
she's from a Middle Eastern country i
want to say Pakistan but if you go to
persecution dotnet you can find out for
sure her name is Asia Bibi and I just
heard an update on her that she's still
on death row and she's trying to be
freed her family's advocating for her
the mayor of Paris has said you can come
here we'll protect you because you are
unlawfully put in prison because she
proclaim the name of Jesus among some
other women that she was working with in
a field and they rallied against her and
said that she was speaking blasphemy so
it's under blasphemy charges that she's
in prison because it's a Muslim country
so it's that kind of persecution that I
just have no comprehension it but we can
pray for those people yeah and it says
after further threats they let them go
they could not decide how to punish them
because all the people were praising God
for what had happened for the man who
miraculously healed was healed was over
40 years old like that man he wasn't a
boy like there when at 13 they became
men in their culture so that because he
was I want to say we've talked about
this for a real person then the end like
the proof was in the pudding there he is
like he can't make this up people knew
that he had been crippled from birth
they couldn't make this up and so people
were excited about what what God had
been doing and Peter and John say judge
for yourselves whether it is right in
God's sight to obey you rather than God
for we cannot help speaking about what
we have seen yeah excuse me I had I had
a friend start talking talking to me
about religion and and like Christianity
and other religions and pieces of
history that I wasn't really familiar
about but I knew I was passionate with
God in the Bible and so I was trying to
articulate but I wasn't speaking from a
place of experience right and it was
obvious because I couldn't really engage
in the conversation and I like Oh Peter
and John Sade and they speak from what
they have seen and her
and I was talking with my dad about this
how I was frustrated that you know the
my friend who was talking to me seemed
to have a lot of understanding about
history but some of his understanding of
the Bible was not quite right from what
I had read but I didn't know how to
engage in the conversation because I was
trying to speak about different sermons
and things that I had learned for the
past and trying to regurgitate it and my
dad said Kerry just tell them about how
Jesus has loved you yeah tell them about
the cross and the difference that he's
made in your life because that is
something that I have seen and heard and
experienced yes that is real to me yes
he is the god of history and yeah sees
you know you can see Old Testament
prophecies and that foretold Jesus
coming and doing all these things but
what I have seen and heard is powerful
yes and I have a story to share so don't
don't worry about getting all fuddled
befuddled with what to say you can share
your story and experience it is why I
think it's so important that we foster
that relationship in the presence of God
each day you're reading his word and
praying yeah and experiencing him so we
have something real to share to people
yes something real to share with people
about who Jesus is to you so that's the
question we leave with you today is what
have you seen and heard with regards to
Jesus in your life mm-hmm and you might
be sitting there going I don't know and
if that's the case just say okay Lord
show me show me where you have
intervened in my life give me a story
that I can tell and sometimes I am like
that Lord you know what to say and then
he gives me a story to share so trust
that God will equip you to take the
natural and to turn it to the
supernatural to take help you focus your
conversation on what would Jesus is and
what he's done in your life so why don't
we we pray and ask God to help us do
that yes Father thank you so much thank
you for your word and Jesus you do warn
us that we are no longer of this world
and so people might not always accept
because you bring an exclusive truth
claim that you alone are the way that we
can be saved for Jesus we just believe
that and thank you for it and I thank
you for your great love towards us which
we have seen and experienced I just pray
for our viewers who may be need that
fresh touch from you God to see and
experience you in it in a new way and I
pray God that you would meet with them
this week i also want to pray for the
persecuted Church around the world we
lift up Asia Bibi to you who is waiting
to be killed in prison but God we pray
that you would intervene I pray that you
would rescue her from prison and that
you would allow her to be reunited with
her family and that while she's in
prison God that you would give her
though the words to say to the guards
and the other cell mates you'd help her
to share who Jesus is and why you make a
difference in our life so we pray all of
these things in the name of Jesus amen
amen thank you so much for tuning in we
are going to be back here next week to
finish off this section of the book of
Acts he'll have an awesome see you later
you
