welcome to category five technology TV
episode number 458 for Tuesday the 28th
of June 2016 it's nice to see you I'm
Robby Ferguson your host and please help
me welcoming our co-host tonight Kelsey
Jenson hello I let her sit at the desk
tonight the shelf is reserved for teeny
effort micro drone 3.0 over there in the
newsroom Jeff Weston hey how are you
today I'm wonderful on you good good
it's gonna be a fun show tonight we are
going to be continuing our series on
logical volume management in Linux but
this time we're going to set things up
and we are going to add another hard
drive to our pre-existing logical volume
group thereby giving us more harddrive
space in our volume so it begins
we all sorted thank you guys for sending
in your questions at great hubbas we're
actually going to be looking at some of
those right as well all right and here's
what's coming up to the category 5 dot
TV newsroom some hear the term drone and
think it's payload is not working there
we go there we go computer glitches
blend remote controls they're so
old-school
alright we'll pick it right up there
it's ok because we'll edit that out
carry on
here's what's coming up the category 5
think of its payload as something
dangerous but what if drones were used
to deliver or collect emergency relief
material and supplies that's what's
being tested in New Jersey
an AI powered robot escaped from the
Russian lab that was developing it not
once but twice
Star Trek renegades has faced some
devastating new rules from CBS and a
California woman is being awarded
$10,000 from Microsoft because Windows
had installed itself on her computer and
Boston Dynamics doglike robot has seen
some major improvements which make it
quieter and
able to help out around the house with
tasks like loading the dishwasher stick
around the full details are coming up
later in the show
this is category five technology TV
welcome to the show this is category
five technology TV boy oh boy am I ever
excited about tonight I love doing all
this LVM geekery yes and I like trying
to figure out what's going on are you
are you keeping up all right there will
be a quiz after the show Kelsey so you
know stick around pick off what's that I
said pick option C every time it's
always right okay well big seller on our
website this week now it's funny I
noticed that a lot of these mugs were
selling not these mugs but mugs on our
website I'm going to show you in just a
second but it made me look at these mugs
that we have here in the studio and
these apparently have become collectors
items or something crazy like that
because they're charging this is not us
this is the the company that
manufactures them they're charging $76
per mug they're not selling like
hotcakes right now but there is a
there's actually a color-changing mug
apparently available with our logo on it
you go to shop let's actually go there
shop dot category-five dot TV and when
you're there there it is shop category 5
TV go over to category 5 merch and swag
and when you click on swag you're gonna
see anything that's available with our
brand on it there's the mug coffee mug
it's got 5 out of 5 stars it's not $76
I'm not even kidding you want to see
this let's come back to this in just a
second here's here the mugs that we're
using tonight these are the studio D
stackable mug sets and then B $3.50 is
what they're charging so you can you can
get one of those if you really want to
but let's go back to the one that's
actually selling this week
there it is okay and I have no idea why
they're doing that check this out okay
so what people have been doing is going
here and what have I done there we go
and they're choosing this black color
changing mug and it's actually a black
mug that when you pour your hot liquid
into it it turns white and reveals our
logo that's amazing how cool is that I
love it and that one's available for
$16.99
now what about green part does that the
the like the technology and the five
does that disappear when the mug is
black or do you just see technology I
don't know Jeff I you know I haven't
actually seen one of these mugs before
again so we'll have to maybe order one
for the studio here maybe we get one for
each of the crew or something like that
but but they've been selling off of our
website and it really caught my
attention that that they are color
changing I love that how cool is that it
reminds me of do you remember when
Pantages Theatre had in Toronto had the
Phantom of the Opera and they sold a
black mug and it was just a straight-up
black mug and when you poured your hot
liquid into it the black would fade away
and the white phantom mask would be
exposed that are cool that's it really
reminds me of that yes so but that's got
our logo so check that out
shop category five dot TV for all the
merch and then we've got those available
there for 17 bucks how cool is that
awesome Jeff is here in the studio I
wanted to catch up with you a little bit
my man because last time you were here
we were looking at that new computer
that you put together it looked pretty
sweet how are things going with that so
far
they're now good okay yeah yeah I'm
gonna say about four days to get the to
get a solid-state drive in there take
out the operating system installed I was
running into an issue where I couldn't
get into the BIOS and I couldn't set up
the dual boot every time it booted it
was going directly in the Linux and it
was pulling my hair out because I mean
you know I'm doing the delete the f11
f12 f2 all the keys I can think of it
didn't have like a post screen I told
you hit delete too and no apparently
that's one of the things with Windows 10
because I installed Windows 10 first
thing that would I
so with Windows 10 they don't have that
screen that pops up with bias and turns
out it was the Delete key it was
yeah pretty default okay so you got it
in there you've got Windows 10 and you
mentioned Linux so yes what's the story
yeah so I've got a dual boot system tons
of software being put in there my kids
are enjoying all the retro games from
like the 90s that I've got stocked away
in boxes with CDs and everything which
is awesome what yeah yeah yeah but
within the first week yeah of using it
my screen goes red oh really
what is this red screen yeah turns out
it's the new blue screen of death but
it's red do with your video card and
Windows 10 so if there's an issue with
Windows 10 and the video card you get
the red screen of death
so I've had new Windows 10 for a week
and I have the red screen of death so I
was just just fuming really I want
something stable and solid so why'd you
install Windows 10 then Jeff why'd you
do it why'd you do it
we've got Linux on there I do have Linux
on there but some of the software that
my wife needs to use for a business is
windows-based you know what that's
important for us to know it is Jeff's
talking about dual booting you're
getting taller booting allows you you
know there's this fear of maybe
switching from Windows to Linux because
maybe you've never tried it or maybe
you've heard that some of your
applications aren't going to work like
Jeff's wife apparently it's so nice
thing about dual booting is if Windows
is already installed you can then
install Linux as well and it becomes a
side-by-side installation so then when
you turn on the computer it says do you
want Windows or do you want Linux and
then you can choose so you can use Linux
for all the stuff that Linux is known
for like surfing the web without the
fear of viruses and things like that and
getting used to some of the alternate
applications that are available on the
Linux platform and then if you
absolutely need it you can reboot back
into Windows and I suppose that's kind
of how you're gonna play some of those
old games
all right maybe DOSBox on Linux
would be another way because some of
that could work like a daus game because
these probably predate Windows as well
some of them I have some of them do I do
have a couple that are on floppy that
I'm going what like what do you do with
those yeah I can't use them you you'll
be the one guy who seriously goes out
and buys a floppy drive I can this did
think about it
yeah I contemplated it but I'm like no I
just I can't I can't do that
I think that at the at that point if I
had old retro stuff that I really wanted
unless it was something personal that I
really wanted to recover like old
pictures or something like that then I
would buy like a USB floppy drive but if
it was just games or something I think
that you'd probably find that it's
abandoned where you can find it as the
download online and at least you know
okay look I actually own a copy of the
the thing so I'm not bootlegging or
making illegal copies I own it I'm just
you know it's a copy that I can write
use then you want to watch out for virus
but otherwise it's good I mean that
system is just screaming fast we love it
absolutely
viewers were letting us know we were
looking at that back plane oh yeah the
inside it had two SATA headers looked
like some fan headers and a molex for
power and one of our viewers mentioned
that looking at the front of the case
and we didn't actually look at the front
of the case but it looked like and
looking back at the video I can see it
as well it looked like there might be
some hot swap drive trays there so you
can actually set up potentially and and
I'll get you to check this at home and
then get back to us and let us know if
this is the case at the front there were
two red switches and if the theory is is
that one of those switches those
switches are gonna allow you to eject a
hot swappable hard drive okay the the
the red switches I wondered about them
yeah they are stationary they don't move
they're placeholders for another switch
so that could be the case so why so why
the backplane it doesn't make any sense
I don't know are you sure it's not a
drive tray it's not it's what it might
be a drive trade but the red switches
that are there because I tried to move
them and when I looked at them through
the the chassis on the inside they are
in place they're screwed in they are a
placeholder for a switch so I'm sure
like something can be installed there
but yeah I wonder then if it's a
backplane with with the ability to buy
trays for it maybe you can buy hot-swap
trays for it it could be it's a great
theory
I'd love to I'd love to see this thing
again and see if we can get into that
and figure out what it is computers and
then I started working here yeah you
know I realize there's a lot more to
computers that are you know it's great
it's fun this fun show I love doing it
but it's just it's like there's a lot
more than I thought sometimes we get a
little bit geeky around here too so
that's rough Anya what about you are you
enjoying the show or you enjoy you know
where are you at we'd love to know where
our viewers are at if you are over the
top geeky like myself or maybe you're
just learning your way like Kelsey or
maybe you're where Jeff's at and just
learning how to set up dual-boot systems
and and doing all that kind of cool
stuff let us know we'd love to know
where our viewers are at yeah and
actually speaking of viewers we would
like to welcome a new viewer who we just
started chatting with tonight USS rover
found us through Google so thank you
well way to go thanks for the referral
Google yeah and hey USS Rover it's so
nice to have you here all the way from
Mars didn't know we were viewed on Mars
that's pretty cool we were talking a
little bit about Microsoft and something
that we often talk about here on the
show is security phishing scams things
that try to trick people into revealing
personal information one of the classic
scams is this Microsoft cold caller who
will call you up at home and and say you
know this is Microsoft calling and we
detected that you've got a virus and if
you'd like we can remote in and service
your computer for you it's a free
service and we'll take care of it blah
blah blah and you know you fall for it
and then you've allowed this person who
is not Microsoft into your computer they
remote in they install all kinds of
software that makes them
the controller of your computer so they
can install things that encrypt your
files and then require ransom in order
to get them back so you have to pay them
they could get in there and say you know
a lot of times it's just the scam to get
quick cash and they'll say ok well we
need your credit card to authenticate
your user account and then they run up a
thirty thousand dollar credit card bill
who knows right so it's a scam there's a
new one that's been going out around for
the past couple of months that that I've
caught several times and it's an
interesting one because it comes in it
looks absolutely like a true form
Microsoft email and it's from Microsoft
support from Microsoft com
everything about the email looks
entirely legitimate and the email
address is a Microsoft com email address
the the links link out to Microsoft comm
knowledgebase articles and things so
it's very very real looking yeah the
logos they're everything so when you you
know we've talked about you know click
the link or don't click the links hover
over the links and see where they're
going to link to and make sure that it's
it's actually the site that you think it
is and so Microsoft com
so the people that have developed this
particular phishing scam know that
people are privy to that information now
so you're you're smart enough to know
let's hover over all the links before
clicking on them to see that it in fact
goes to Microsoft comm so because they
know that they create all these links
that are Microsoft comm and so the
average user is going to say okay this
looks absolutely legitimate right so
they're going to possibly click some
links and so on and so forth and that's
fine because it does take you to
Microsoft comm but what they've done is
they've effectively created trust from
you sitting at your computer with this
particular email so how do they get yet
right in the footer of the email so
beyond all the information about your
you know we need information about your
account because someone has compromised
at blah blah blah or whatever it is
usually these are sent to businesses and
then in the footer there's the name of
the person an email address that is a
microsoft.com email address but it's
probably not even real and if it is is
not the right person
and then in big text is a phone number
to call that caught my eye because
Microsoft is not notorious for giving
out direct access phone numbers for us
to call in order to get free support it
just doesn't happen folks so I decided
to get into a reverse for 1:1 lookup
service and do a search on the
particular phone number that was
provided in this official-looking
Microsoft email and turns out it was a
marketing company in New York oh ok so
when you think about all that we really
have to be careful when it comes to
these phishing scams because the people
who are the scammers are smart they know
what they're doing and they know what to
do in order to trick you into thinking
that this is a legitimate email all that
to say be careful be careful folks
Kelsey we've got to take a quick break
yes we do after the break we're gonna be
talking about logical volume management
we are going to be adding a 500 gig
logical while our actual physical hard
drive to our logical volume group so
that we're gonna extend our little 28
gig logical volume to 528 gigs
whoo don't go anywhere stick around Jeff
Westin Jemma you're building a brand-new
beautiful website what
are you alright you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play
you're supposed to act
okay I'm building a really cool website
are you building a really cool website
you need hosting one of the things about
a hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
that's true how much harddrive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are gonna get
unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roots are your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on if you want
to build a wordpress site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash DreamHost just
don't put that on the papers on just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're gonna find five
dollars and change per month go to cap
five dot TV slash dream host welcome
back this is category five technology TV
I'm your host Robbie Ferguson hi Kelsey
nice to see ya
great to see everybody we've got viewer
comments that I've been coming in like
crazy on our YouTube account YouTube
page and you can find it at cat5 dot TV
slash youtube that's our quick link to
get you there we have some comments that
we can share tonight yes hi rev D jank
nice to see ya so the first one comes
from I think it's Cee there's a c120 ID
see what yeah that so this is for Jeff
oh is it for Jeff it's for believer
relates to the news from last week I
think oh yeah read it angrily Kelsey I'm
ready bring it on petaflop isn't the
name of the computer it refers to how
powerful it is this
waiting for the drinks to splashing I
laughed when you said
petaflop oh that's a dumb name for a
server you're kind of dead a petaflop is
a measure of a computer's processing
speed it can be expressed as a thousand
trillion floating-point operations per
second so 93 petaflop s--
equals 93 thousand trillion floating
point operations you get all that Jeff I
feel very educated but remind me to get
an arguments with you more often because
that was very soothing comments e 120 ad
Jeff called petaflop the name of the
server yeah I mean when you get into
those kinds of speeds when you've got a
billion processors that you're not
measuring anything in megahertz anymore
I've never heard the phrase petaflop
before no I'm just too slow to operate
that fast I'm like 0.0001 petaflop s--
alright moving on what do we got from
roll hey roll roll says Rahl has been
very active on our YouTube channel
thanks buddy nice to see you and thanks
for being a part of the community make
sure you jump into our chat room at some
point if you ever get a chance its
category 5 on freenode for those of you
who don't know or go to our website
interact is the menu you'll see our chat
room there yeah
dear Robbie yes many thanks for the wine
3264 answer let me go say that right
yeah yeah ok
that was last week we're talking about
making wine the the ability to run
Windows applications on Linux 64-bit
Linux defaults to 64-bit wine so then if
you've got 32-bit windows applications
they're not gonna run properly if at all
so we learned how to convert our wine to
be always 32-bit I say all that so that
if you are interested in that you can go
back to episode number 457 it really
helps me awesome by the way is there a
particular reason to use Ubuntu instead
of point Linux or Debian or is it just
because of Ubuntu
popularity I got curious on this one Oh
once again great show
Thanks wrong okay so is there a reason
to choose Ubuntu I think that we should
buy some boxing gloves and all of us
right here in the studio have a little
bit of fisticuffs right now and and
maybe you could Jeff if you could be
Debian or no I'll be Debian you be
Ubuntu and Kelsi you be point Linux and
we'll fight to the death
fair enough that is essentially what
you're asking me to do here everybody
has their own how do you say their own
preferences when it comes to the the
flavor of Linux that they want to use
I'll tell you what I like I like Davian
point Linux and Ubuntu are based on
Debian okay so when when you install
Debian you can set it up however you
want
Ubuntu and point Linux to different
distros based on Debian have already
done that for you they've set it up the
way that they think you might want it
and if you like the way you boom to does
it or you like the Waypoint Linux does
it it saves you some set-up time point
Linux
I love the distro it's fantastic but I
do find that when it comes time to
upgrade now our demo system here is
sorely out-of-date because of the fact
that in order to upgrade to the latest
version I would have to basically wipe
everything out and that would take
forever and it's really really tough for
me here in the studio so if you don't
mind doing that then maybe it's for you
and I do love it and don't get me wrong
Ubuntu has a wonderful release cycle so
that you not only doesn't have long-term
support so you've got about five years
worth of support on a distribution that
is called LTS so that means you can keep
running it for five years and it will
still not be out of date so to speak but
the packages the program versions that
are in that operating system do become
obsolete compared to what is current
that I don't like because but it's handy
it can be handy a boon to you can you
can install it now and keep running it
for the next four years and it's still
secure it's still safe
but if
you use open shot for video editing
you're gonna find I've got an old
version a four year old version of open
shot maybe not that old maybe a year or
two old so then you want to upgrade
because it is so old and you want to get
the newer versions so I run into that
with things that the kids want to use
like playing mind test for example
lubuntu is quite often behind with the
versioning of the game and so you know
we try to find compromises by using PPAs
personal package archives I think it is
so it's like a disc repository created
by an individual rather than a company
like canonical have you tried Linux
flight I have not I have not there are
so many that I have not tried so Debian
being the kind of the core of both of
those distros is you know my personal
fave and it's now what I'm running
yesterday I yeah yesterday of the day
before I installed Debian 8.5 on my work
computer which replaced point Linux on
that system and I set up everything and
now that Martin Winn press was on the
show and talking to us about Ubuntu
matei and talking to us about comp is
reloaded bringing comp is back to back
to active basically it compasses the
ability to do effects and zoom and all
that kind of stuff so I decided you know
what I can do this myself I don't need
point Linux to have comp is I can use
comp is reloaded so there is so I can
build it myself so it's really a matter
of preference there is no answer play
enjoy set up a whole bunch of virtual
machines and just try every distro that
you can find that seems reasonably you
know what you're looking for and that's
going to give you a chance to really
feel what each distro does differently
I do like Matei so --boom to matei is a
natural progression but point linux also
has matei that's what this is so does
Debian Debian one of the install options
is Mattei so debian core with matei is
perfectly great for me and then install
compiz reloaded and
for nice themes and looks good it all
works it all works
it all works screaming fast it's amazing
how just refreshing your your operating
system just takes it back to life yeah
thanks for the comments appreciate it
and the question juice we have one more
one more shine shadow hey shine shadow
this was on episode 256 256 1 456 yeah
that's a 6 I'm like what are you on
about that was 200 weeks ago so this was
2 weeks ago not to come ago two weeks
ago yeah shine shadow says great
tutorial and LVM I can't wait so you
have the show on how to expand your LVM
by adding another hard drive woo spooky
that's trippy we do that tonight I'm in
the process of upgrading my home Media
Center since we bought a house this is
my first bit stressful
anyways I'll be using Ubuntu and I'll be
using Ubuntu and since you're showing
LVM was so intuitive it's definitely the
way to keep my 5,000 plus movie library
dynamic with Plex I should probably go
with a raid setup but at the end of the
day I'm not made of money and I can't
really afford to double the 8 terabytes
of space to take up the way I see it if
one of the hard drives fail it was meant
to be their only movies looking forward
to seeing how to expand the LVM when
adding more drives great show thanks ok
so you understand a lack of redundancy
and the fact that you could lose a lot
of your files if you have a hard drive
fail I'd encourage you to check out a
product called unread and we have
reviewed it here on the show and we've
spoken with them on the show that's what
I use for my plex media server
I love plex Jeff and I we've talked
about a day about how and you've
actually come over to my place to see
our setup I've got unread running in the
rough-in bathroom on a server with seven
hard drives and the nice thing about
unrated is it does give you single drive
fault tolerance
so if a single drive fails you can
replace it and you don't lose any of
your files why that's important to me
shineshadow is because even though you
say you don't really care
fact is you've got an array that has 8
terabytes of space I guarantee you you
are going to fall into saving your
personal files on to that array it's a
lot of space it's somewhere that you can
drop it that is on an a share and it's
convenient
so guaranteed it's going to happen I
don't want you to lose your family
photos or videos so please look into
some redundant solutions LVM as of the
past you know few years has also does
provide mirroring like capabilities but
we are not getting into that tonight but
do know that there is a potential for
that just a little bit more complex than
setting up something like a nun raid
server so looking at at your comments
thank you very much glad that you're
finding the series to be helpful and I
think we should get right into it I love
what you're doing and tonight we're
gonna learn how to expand the array that
we've been working on so what we've done
is we've installed Ubuntu Matei and
we've installed it with LVM so that
means we have a logical volume managed
hard drive in that on that Ubuntu mutt a
computer so we have then taken that LVM
and we've shrunk it down to give us
enough space to do snapshots ok this has
all been covered in the series make sure
you go to our website category 5 dot TV
do a quick search for LVM and you're
gonna find all the information that you
need so now we're at the point where we
say ok well our main hard drive is an LV
M volume and it is only 28 gigs in size
we want it to be bigger so I've stuck a
500 gig hard drive in there it's a blank
hard drive keep in mind it's blank and
we're going to then extend our our
actual logical volume and I'm gonna show
you how to do that so jumping over to a
boon to Mattei let's do this
here we go we're gonna jump into our
terminal and we want to take a quick
look at a couple of things here system
tools
not a terminal now keep in mind that
we're using Ubuntu Matei but you can be
using any Linux distribution that has
LVM installed and you've set up your LVM
and we can tell that by going sudo LV
display type that right yeah okay so
here just as a refresher our our logical
volumes so we have our root filesystem
is 28 gigs and then we have a swamp
filesystem which is about a gig okay but
that's it so if I do DF - H which is
short for disk free space if you will
you'll notice that we are already using
25% of our hard drives entire capacity
on that Ubuntu matei VG root logical
volume so the size is only twenty eight
gigs we're using 6.3 that gives us 20
gigs free that's not going to be a lot
of space with room to grow so if we do a
quick little check here and type sudo F
disk - L that's going to give us a list
of all the hard drives that are
installed in our computer ok so we see
things and we even see RAM neat but if
we look there's our SD a this is a 40
gig hard drive which is where our
logical volume currently resides and you
can see that here we've got linux l vm
as the main 39.5 gig partition and then
we now have dev /s DB which is a 500 gig
hard drive which i've simply plugged in
before booting up the computer so I
haven't done anything to prepare this
hard drive it's just a brand new 500 gig
hard drive or it could be a used drive
or whatever you'd want it to be
something reliable because you want it
to be because it's gonna store some of
your files so we're gonna hop into the
news room Jeff's got some great stories
for us tonight when we come back we're
gonna take that 500 gig hard drive we're
gonna actually make that a part of our
logical volume so we're gonna end up not
with a 28 gig root partition logical
volume instead we're going to have 528
gigs to work with and it's when we're
gonna take a couple of moments
so you want to stick around we're gonna
be looking more at LVM in just a couple
minutes time over to the newsroom Jeff
Weston all right it's Tuesday June 28
2016 here are the stories were covering
this week some hear the term drone and
think it's a payload is something
dangerous
what if drones were used to deliver or
collect emergency relief materials and
supplies that's what's being tested in
New Jersey an AI powered robot escaped
from the Russian lab developing it twice
devastating new rules from CBS we'll
tell you what this means for the fan
base Star Trek series coming up the
10 installed itself on her computer and
Boston Dynamics from doglike robot has
seen some major improvements which make
it quieter and even might be able to
help out around the house with tasks
like loading the dishwasher these
stories are coming right up
don't go anywhere now here's another
great way you can support the shows you
love from the category-five TV network
by shopping gearbest that's right Jeff
cat5 dot TV slash gearbest
it's an online store for the geek streak
in you or the loved ones of course I
mean especially your loved ones right
because cap 5 TV slash gearbest quite
frankly has all of the greatest tech
gifts that you can ever hope for at
rock-bottom prices to their cellphones
you betcha cap 5 TV slash gearbest has a
wide assortment of unlocked Android cell
phones and tablets
what about computer consumer electronics
those make a great gift
absolutely from hi-tech watches to
action cameras headphones even virtual
reality headsets cat5 dot TV slash gear
vest has you covered they literally have
it all Jeff literally really it's like a
super store right from the comfort of
your own chair at your computer through
the interweb yeah
I there's no way they have it all it's
true it's just a bunch of random
electronic sesame what about clothes yep
both men and women fashionable apparel
at rock-bottom SuperDuper prices kinda
like this well look at this coat what do
you think it's a slimming mock leather
jacket I love it it's available for less
than $30 plus free shipping a cat5 TV
slash gear best yeah all right you kinda
got me there
Wow any other questions for me Jeff now
that the winter is past flying season do
they have any good deals on say to UM
comforters oh my goodness well check
this out dude they have everything check
out over 500 various drones and not only
that they're available marked down by
about 32 up to 63 percent off the
regular price love it what's website
again
well you're gonna find gearbest on our
partners pages for any of your favorite
category 5 TV shows like new every day
category 5 technology TV the pixel
shadow but of course if you want to shop
absolutely right now and you want to go
straight to the site all you have to do
is visit cat5 dot TV slash gearbest so
that's easy tech 5 dot TV slash your
best that's right happy shopping
I'm Jeff lessen that here the top
stories from the category 5 dot TV
newsroom how to distribute life-saving
supplies quickly and safely after a
natural disaster has long been a puzzle
for responders now drones might be the
lifesaver the idea was put to the test
last week in New Jersey as a drone
delivery service conducted test flights
to help determine whether drones could
be used to carry human medical samples
to and from areas that cannot be
accessed or communicated with during
major storms earthquakes or other
disasters experts say drones are
becoming a more valuable tool in many
humanity humanitarian operations where
the unmanned aircraft can be quickly
launched and used to collect data and
images to help locate people who might
be injured or trapped but Timothy and mu
Kelly an assistant professor of
pathology at
Hopkins University School of Medicine in
Baltimore said that biological samples
are not like a shoe or book they're
pretty fragile items mr. mu Kelly is
acting as consultant to the company
conducting the tests in New Jersey he
says for example if blood is being
carried on the back of a motorcycle
shaking caused by the bike and it's
vibrations can ruin the sample but 100
people looked on as drones flew
Wednesday between an onshore medical
relief company and a test facility on a
vessel stationed in the Delaware Bay
they took medical supplies from the
vessel to the medical camp while blood
and other medical specimens were flown
between the sites the tests came a day
after President Barack Obama's
administration approved the routine use
of small drones by real-estate agents
farmers filmmakers and countless other
commercial operations after excuse me
after years of struggling to write rules
that would both protect public safety
and free the benefits of new technology
I like this cool with all the natural
disaster things that are happening your
crowd across the world this is a great
option I like the idea that we can use
drones for this I hope that the delivery
method is quite smooth for those you
know gentle samples well you know what
they I think about a gimbal for a camera
where you know even though the dry going
like this the gimbal is nice and smooth
so what's to stop them from putting a
gimbal on the on the Box good question I
don't know but what a gimbal cover
turbulent air space like would the
gimbal be that's crap you ever been
running down the stairs and done a
little trip while you're carrying a cup
of coffee or driving with a cup of
coffee and you hit a bump and your hand
yeah absorbs that flow so that you don't
you know like you just instinctually you
know you just want to fill your coffee
so if there was something like that then
why not uh you know I think it's great I
love this I think it's totally cool
speaking of cool this story absolutely
love a robot in Russia caused an unusual
traffic jam last week after it after it
a scaped from a research lab and now the
artificial intelligent bot is making
headlines
and after after reportedly tried to flee
a second time engineers at the Russian
lab reprogrammed the intelligent machine
dubbed promo bot IR 77 after last week's
incident but the robot recently made a
second escape attempt last week the
robot made it on approximately 160 feet
to the street before it lost power and
partially paralyzed traffic promo bot
the company that designed the robot
announced the escapade in a blog post
the next day the promo bot was designed
to interact with people using speech
recognition providing information in the
form of an expressive electronic face
pre-recorded audio messages and a large
screen on its chest essentially the
thing kind of looks like Elfi hey I'm up
here the company said that the robot
could be used as a promoter
administrator tour guide or concierge or
a really big traffic pilot co pinecone
in its blog post the company said it
considers the escape a successful test
of the machines new navigation system
because the robot didn't harm anyone and
wasn't damaged during the getaway ok so
here's my take on this story the company
is called promo bot the robot the robot
is promo bot IR 77 interesting that this
robot that's being tested for a GPS
navigation suddenly escapes twice you
know I think there's a little bit of you
know playing going on here but at the
same time there's a part of me that's
going somebody contact Will Smith
because the robots are escaping and not
listening to the commands of their
owners no word yet if as he escaped he
yelled um
but the thing kind of looks like a cross
between the Alfea unit from the ad we
remember Robbie I could never forget
Robin cross Robbie the robot
I don't remember Rob remember Alfie and
looks like a merge between Alfie and
Wally maybe I'm I'm looking at that and
I'm seeing the Honda awesome oh sure
well yeah I just I think it's funny two
weeks ago it was robots taking our jobs
in the health care profession now we've
got robots that are escaping and
blocking traffic it could have been
worse they could have programmed it with
Microsoft's AI it's true then you're
just gonna read scream to death yeah all
right
devastating news for Star Trek renegades
backers on Thursday CBS and paramount
issued fan film guidelines that's put an
immediate halt to all things Star Trek
on the renegade set the new fan film
guidelines found on Star Trek comm
states several rules which seem to be
targeted specifically at renegades
for example the fan film was must not be
longer than 15 minutes in length must
not pay its actors or crew and must not
contain any actors who formerly worked
on the Star Trek set it also stated that
a fan film is not allowed to make profit
and if fundraising you is used to fund
the project no more than $50,000 may be
raised in comparison to the new rule the
Renegades pilot episode alone raised
three hundred and seventy five thousand
and thirty eight dollars and featured a
cast jam-packed with Star Trek actors
that we know and love and a statement
sent to Star Trek renegades backers on
Friday the renegades team said we at
renegades have nothing but the utmost
respect for Star Trek and its IP holders
CBS and paramount everything we have
done has been because of Gene
Roddenberry's vision and creativity Star
Trek is their property and we will
absolutely abide by their rules and
guidelines now feeling obligated to
their donors and fans the renegades team
decided that it's moving forward
but we'll and we'll continue to make the
Requiem as promised but without any Star
Trek elements okay how do you take a
show that's got spaceships flying around
space Federation spaceships of that
Federation spaceships with various alien
cultures that are resolving conflicts
and then take all of those elements out
and create a movie with spaceships in
space with alien cultures that are
resolving conflicts I just tragic I
don't I don't know how they're gonna be
able to pull this off kudos to them if
they can make it happen but to do it
without any Star Trek elements and
especially considering that like
everything about this screams needing to
have Star Trek well you know what Jeff
what really troubles me about the like
what's so sad about this a big part of
all the fundraising for the first
episode the pilot was let's get start
reck props yeah manufactured for this
movie so all of the communicators all of
the weapons they're all Federation style
devices everything about it the sets
everything they invested so much money
so that moving forward this investment
would pay off because then they can do
that we already have all those things
right now they're being told okay well
you can't it can't be branded to Star
Trek at all it can't have any Star Trek
paraphernalia and with the Requiem we're
talking they've got like ten other Star
Trek actors including some big names
that are gonna you know that we're
potentially gonna really Jonathan Franks
it wasn't it wasn't it was he or was he
and running I don't think so I don't
think Jonathan was but and that's Will
Riker but yeah but there are a number of
people from Deep Space nine mm-hmm a
number of people from Voyager of course
and a growing cast from the original
series I just I think it's weird cuz as
far as I know this is the only series or
book or movie or TV show
that has placed these kinds of
guidelines for their fans well you could
never ever do it with Star Wars anyways
no period not with Star Wars definitely
no but at least at least up until the
Friday Thursday CBS Studios and
Paramount's said it was okay or at least
stood back and let it happen and didn't
press charges and take people to court
over it right if something has happened
to cause them to go oh you might be in
trouble here because I mean like they
are working on their new TV show and
that's exactly yeah but it's a totally
different feel like I was reading an
article the other day and they're saying
that the new show is gonna be raunchy
and Game of Thrones esque like we're
talking about nude Star Trek being put
on TV and if that's the case I can't see
the Requiem is gonna have anything like
it's two different markets wouldn't like
something like Requiem just booze
publicity and like wouldn't it make it
so that thing it keeps the fans happy
yeah cuz there's nothing cause like I
mean not a lot of fans I mean people
like the new movies but I I've heard
that a lot of fans aren't too happy with
the current the currents those current
Star Trek where they're going about it
like the new of the noop the past two
movies that they made would you okay
well movies are separate they're
paramount but CBS is the television
series so they've got the new television
series but there hasn't been anything
for years so you know all these fan
television series so there's so to speak
no become crawl out if they made a web
series would that get them around the
rules no that's the thing it is a web
series that's it they try they pitched
it to CBS so CBS knows everything that
they're doing right but they were
rejected and now shut down basically so
yeah it is a web series it's available
for free on YouTube and you can watch it
there but not anymore that's at least
not as Star Trek yeah let's see what
happens all right moving on Microsoft
has agreed to pay a California woman
$10,000 us after an automatic windows 10
update left her computer unusable teri
Goldstein said her windows 7 computer
had automatically tried to update itself
to Windows 10 without her permission
she said the update had made her machine
unstable leaving her unable to use it to
run her business Microsoft said that it
dropped its appeal to save on legal
costs Microsoft has been aggressively
pushing the latest version of its widely
used operating system which is currently
available as a free download for
computers running Windows 7 and 8
however many people have chosen not to
upgrade because they're running old
hardware they have software that doesn't
run on Windows 10 or are concerned over
the software's tracking features or
simply just don't want it in February
the in February the company bundled
Windows 10 with its security updates and
made it a recommended update which meant
sat which meant it was automatically
downloaded and installed
unless blocked by the user some people
accuse the company of trying to trick
customers into installing the update
Seattle Times reported that Miss
Goldstein's computer had slowed to a
crawl after the update and Microsoft
Customer Support had not fixed the
problem why does Microsoft feel the need
to impose themselves on everybody but
they're doing it for free no they almost
certainly not ok I realize they're
getting money out of it but but like
honestly they're like a bad virus that
just won't go away
it's all about that dolla dolla bills
there's our t-shirt for the day not not
the dollar pills Microsoft the virus
that won't go away so frustrating so
I'll tell you a sad story upgrading to
Windows 10 cost $400 here o because we
pay for bandwidth and Microsoft rolled
it out on our system right and the bill
came and it was $400 higher than
previous months I think you should
contact Microsoft and tell them to pay
the bill pay the bill pay the bill
Microsoft what a virus that won't go
away that's crazy
ok
Austan dynamics latest robot appears to
be designed to help in the kitchen as
they made a video showing the robot
loading a dishwasher
the robotics business which owns is
owned by Google's parent alphabet has
created a dog themed machine that
replaces the liquid powered Pistons of
earlier designs with an all-electric
system as a consequence spot Minnie's
engineers say it's one of the quietest
BOTS they have ever built this thing
does not look like a dog though if I had
a dog that looked like that it's like a
dog slash some kind of Raptor kind of
thing I don't know it's like a dog out
of an alien movie or something that's
been taken over really loading the
dishwasher that's it's only function Oh
Jeff come on now I have kids for that
yeah they don't want to do it yeah I pay
them this one does it without
complaining I suppose that's true but
how yeah I have to buy it ten billion
dollars what if it decides to become a
promo bot and escaped into the road and
become like a traffic pylon well we know
what happens then yeah exactly
all right big thanks this week - Roy W -
in our community of yours for submitting
stories to us if you found a news story
you'd like to send email it to newsroom
at category five TV for all your tech
news with a slight linux bias vis visit
the category-five TV newsroom at
newsroom category five TV for the
category five TV newsroom I'm Jeff
Weston thanks Jeff this is category five
technology TV and I'm your host Robbie
Ferguson Kelsi our website is triple W
category five dot TV yes go there check
it out we've got like affiliate links
where you can buy through them visit our
part links and that's to help support
the show help support the network
definitely but also we've got well now
458 episodes of tech TV that's
sort of incredible it's available for
you absolutely free you've got some
binge-watching to do folks 458 hours at
least that because sometimes we go over
and very rarely do we go under it is
getting late and speaking about going
over I tonight we're looking at
expanding or extending if you will our
LVM volume do you think it can be done
in six minutes we can try it really
could now but I want to explain things a
little bit slower than that but it could
actually be done in that amount of time
you won't believe how easy this is do
keep in mind that this can be
destructive on the hard drive that
you're adding to the to the system so
watch out for that but let's let's make
it happen alright so back over to our
Ubuntu mate a system that has LVM
installed there's our 500 gig hard drive
that we've added to the system and if we
look at our disk free - Aitch means
human readable format if I didn't put
the - H it would just be a bunch of
numbers so - H gives me the human
readable format which is in gigabytes
and megabytes and a lot easier to
understand so 20 gigs free on our
current logical volume okay for the
route so what we want to do is we want
to take that dev slash
SDA our s DB pardon me s da is already
in there and add it as a as a physical
volume to our volume group so let's say
let's make this happen see how easy this
is so we're again going to use tools
that we've been playing with throughout
the course of this series first of all
we need to become super user so sudo and
we're gonna go P V display I want to
show you the physical volumes in our in
our system right now so right now we
have P V or physical volume dev /s da v
okay and then we have VG which is volume
group Ubuntu
- mate or matei - VG and then our
physical volume size is thirty nine
point five gigs and so on and so forth
and all that
all right so now what we need to do is
we need to create another physical
volume or ad convert our new 500 500 gig
hard drive into a physical volume for
our logical volume and I know that it
sounds crazy okay I know that a lot of
the things that I'm saying and I'm
moving quick and I understand that and
it can be a little overwhelming
sometimes but try to follow along and if
you have any questions please email us
live at category-five dot TV or get into
the chat room and Kelsey's trying to
watch that with all the stuff flying by
but we understand that and we
acknowledge that and we're here to help
and provide this as a free service to
you so I hope that this helps and I hope
it is understandable for those of you
who have been following the series some
of these things like PV and LV they all
start to make sense because you've been
following the series but I know it's a
little overwhelming when when it's new
to you play around on a virtual machine
and it's gonna be a lot safer that way
you can add virtual hard drive ok so we
need to use physical volume create and
we're going to do this on dev - SD B now
how do I know that well remember we went
before the news we went pseudo fdisk
- L and we found that our 500 gig hard
drive is dev / s DB that of course is
fdisk
- list ok so now we want to create a new
physical volume on dev / s DB so we're
gonna go sudo for Super User do we're
gonna become the root user for a moment
P V create physical volume create dev /s
DB and that's all there is to it it's
done ok not the whole process but it is
now a part of our physical volume group
so again if we if we type sudo I know
sudo PV display which we just did before
you remember that it was just the one
the one drive now we have a second
physical volume it's called a new
physical volume and it is 500 gigs ok
so it is not yet a part of our logical
volume group if we do D F - H we see
that our hard drive still only has 20
gigs free so we need to actually make
this a part of our
group so what we need to do is we need
to extend our volume group to include
this drive so we're gonna go sudo V G
extend for volume group extend and then
we're going to say the name of the
volume group that we want to add it to
so this is Ubuntu - mutt a - VG and
again you get that with sudo space LV
display for logical volume display space
slash dev slash
s TB so we are now becoming super user
sudo we are using the VG extend command
for volume group extend and we're gonna
extend onto the Ubuntu - Matty - VG
volume group this drive dev / s DB which
we have already prepared as a physical
volume for logical volume management hit
enter and it has been extended
successfully okay so now if we type sudo
LV display you'll notice that we still
only have a twenty eight gig volume okay
but you notice how fast this is going
well why hasn't it changed because
that's the question you were gonna ask
right yes we've added it to the logical
volume group but not yet to the logical
volume okay so if we now want to now now
we know that that's part of our logical
volume group so we can go sudo LV extend
so logical volume notice that we're
using LV instead of BG logical volume
extend and this time we know that it's a
500 gig drive so we're gonna go - L and
it's a capital L not a lowercase L plus
500 gig G so plus 500 G so that's saying
we're gonna take 500 gigs and add it
because we have that much space that we
now have free on our logical volume
group so let's see if we can see that lv
lv dis skinny and I think might show me
no that doesn't show me sudo LV display
doesn't show me I'm gonna come up with
the command I forget the command that
shows me where that 500 gigs is I know
that we've added the 500 gigs so we know
that we
have that in our logical volume the the
command X evades me eludes me but maybe
you can tell us in the chat room if you
remember ok pseudo so what we're doing
now is adding the space to our logical
volume l.v extend - l+ what does the L
do that's telling it that we're
extending it to this amount of space a
lowercase L would be used if you wanted
to expand it extend it over a percentage
of the space but because I know that
it's a 500 gig volume I can do - L with
a capital L plus 500 gig G and that will
take that whole hard drive basically and
extend onto that lowercase L I could say
a hundred percent but if I say a hundred
percent so - the lowercase L space plus
100% now we're gonna lose the space that
we created last week for our snapshots
so we don't want to do that because then
we would lose all that extra space okay
so if I jump back over here and so now
we've done we've got that pseudo LV
extend - capital L plus 500 G and then
just simply the actual logical volume
not the group so lubuntu - might a - VG
that's the group and then root is the
actual volume okay so we hit enter and
now it's extending and extended and it's
already done that's all it took so 528
gigs so now if I type sudo there we go
LV display now okay we still have our
one gig swap and then we have there's
our dev slash ubuntu matei - VG / root
and it is now 528 gigs
now Robby us in the chat room if anybody
remember the command Albert's are as
saying LVS command Rev dj''q is saying P
V display let's try P V
it's just if you know when you when
you've written a word a couple times and
then it just for some reason you forget
how it is felt
so last week I used the command to show
us the free space and so that we when we
did the snapshot so refer back to
episode 457 and you'll see the command
and it'll come back to me as soon as we
sign off tonight that's just the way
that's just the way it is it's a lot
it's a lot to cover in a one-hour show
but so PV display is only going to show
us the physical volumes it doesn't show
us how much space is used or free on
those and LV display is going to show us
the logical volumes as assigned but not
the free space so LV skin doesn't do it
that gives us a little bit more
information PV scan so but that's
neither here nor there really what you
can see is that we have in fact extended
our logical volume as we want it LV
display and there it is so now we have
apparently a 528 gig logical volume so
does anyone remember how we now check
our free space give you a hint disk free
DF pseudo or not even pseudo DF - Aitch
show our hard drive space it was a Oh
huh look at that what do you see 20 it's
not there we know that the logical
volume is 528 cakes I'm glad that I've
missed a step because then it because
this gonna happen to you and you're
gonna say why is it still only 20 gigs
free we need to take one final step we
need to actually expand that you
remember the command we learned it last
week sudo resize - FS and then the
actual volume group watch this
of lubuntu Matei / VG / root hit enter
now it's going through and it's actually
extending onto the hard drive there we
go the moment of truth now that we've
done it DF - H there it is
492 gigabytes of free space and now we
are only using 2 percent on our volume
group there you have it you notice that
I did not have to unmount the filesystem
in order to do this beautiful thing
about LVM you're working on a server you
don't want to have to shutdown but you
need to add some space there you go it
does it live on the fly that's all the
time that we have for tonight but we've
covered a lot it's been a lot of fun
having you here Oh before we go I have a
question you do oh well you know what I
will open the floor to questions as we
wrap up our sister relates to the LVM as
it comes to a dual boot yes so when I
went to install Matea on my system with
the dual boot I wasn't able to enable
the LVM because it detected a secondary
operating system hmm is there a reason
for that what is their way around it
a second hard drive would do it but the
problem you're probably encountering is
you're trying to create a physical
volume but your physical volume is the
drive itself ok you can create logical
volumes within a physical volume but
because your physical volume already has
windows on it if you create a physical
volume to use for LVM you're going to
wipe out windows right right so if
smartly the ubuntu installer has said
whoa hold on don't want to do that
so that if you're gonna be doing in LVM
it can't be with a dual boot system is
what it could be but you may I have
never tried that Jeff but you may have
to put it on a separate physical disk ok
so you could take Windows and have it on
a particular hard drive and then have
Linux on another hard drive you can dual
boot by partition or by hard drive so
you can have a second SSD or maybe use a
little bit of space of create a
partition about I don't know 200 gigs
you're spinning drive and use that for
Windows where that would be an option
for you okay cool yeah any other
questions chat room final chance
final chance what do we got Kells we
have category 5 TV oh she's good she
wants to throw that out there my god I
saw a question rev D Genk had something
for us PB this way no oh right that
question wrote it down at 8 o'clock
brains turn off
I forget commands she forgets that she
made note will LVM snapshots help
against ransomware attacks no understand
the nature of a snapshot is only to take
a picture of the harddrive so that you
can back it up if you don't back it up
you have done nothing of any value okay
so by creating a snapshot yeah we're
gonna cover this on an upcoming show
we're gonna use our diff backup and
we're gonna be able to create an
untouchable backup that can be
incremented in such a way we talked
about it on the show I think it was you
Jeff that was here we talked about being
able to go back in time we're gonna be
creating that kind of a backup set so
the snapshot itself does nothing to
protect you from things like
cryptolocker or other ransomware Zoar
encryption viruses what it does is it
allows you to then create a backup that
is persistent that is able to happen on
the fly and that backup if done
correctly is what's going to protect you
against those kinds of things okay we're
gonna cover that on a future show don't
lose track of what snapshots actually
doing what LVM is and if you have
questions or if something isn't clear I
try to cover it all I try to make it
understandable but it is geeky as heck
yes that's our other shirt tonight good
guy don't need his question hey good guy
waiting for it to come in though oh okay
so alright so in the meantime he is a
member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here category cat5 dot TV
slash t pn and the international
association of internet broadcasters
cat5 TV /i i AIB thanks Cal so the
question is here fantastic okay what is
the question you put a lot of faith in
the chatroom just be like okay there's a
question we know what's coming we have
no idea what it is
it's probably to do with something dirty
okay so it's starting how do you do that
good guy I know I used to be a main a
mainframe programmer and used a program
named info select on the PC it allowed
me to write random notes full of command
command F's etc or anything is just
commands etc it Auto indexed every
character of a note so you can search
you know you're holding up the end of
the show your type faster man we're just
waiting of a note window software
analytics program like that I don't
actually understand quite what you mean
search situations so this is notes that
are searchable windows software
oh do you have any Linux software like
that would like like we are you thinking
like tomboy or something like that
tomboy has search you can create
stickies and things on your desktop no I
think what he's saying is that the
program was called info select and a lot
on the right random notes full of
command offset cetera and is there
anything in Winx in Linux like that I've
never heard of it could make a note with
LEM compute micro logics info select I'm
not familiar with it to know so are we
taking notes so he you could make a note
with LVM commands notation is it kind of
like a hotkeys I'm sorry dude
I'm wondering if it's like hotkeys for l
vm commands is that what it is is that
what it is or notes of what the l vm
cans are i could type lv
displayed notes with oh like like an
auto-populate something like that I've
never heard of such a thing my man but
you know maybe somebody maybe somebody
watching it has a grasp of what is being
asked here I think it's like do you mean
like when you start typing and then it
tells you in the command prompt in the
terminal kind of what that command does
kind of like a syntax informational
dialogue kind of thing I wonder if it's
like we're not sure what it was like the
suggestion things that the iPhones have
like you start typing in really iPhone I
believe you mean something like that
you're texting you start typing and it
comes up did you see the roll oh you
will have to show you that I'm not
coming show a robot written sci-fi what
I do in the terminal is I'll start
typing the command and hit tab and that
automatically fills it in based on any
of the available options so if you type
LV tab it will look for anything that
starts with LV and give you a list it
hit it twice if there's more than one if
there's only one you hit it once and it
will finish it but it doesn't give you
any kind of syntax information or
anything like that for that you need to
type man
for Manuel good luck or just watch
category 5 yeah they're just we're
clueless about this particular item so
but that's all the time that we have
folks good guy sorry I don't have a
perfect dance before you please send me
an email clarify and we'll do our best
alright everybody that's all the time
that we have for tonight I hope you had
fun
nice to see you Jeff
wonderful to see you and especially nice
to see you have a great week
you
