hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie my name is Jen and on today
show we're picking up in week 3 of the
parable of the sower with rocks
dangerous
welcome back to the show so whether
you've tuned in again and we have we are
going back to talk about the parable of
the sower SM to finish up the last
couple of examples that Jesus gave us
about sowing a seed so I'll just tag in
there done so we're going to pick up
we're going to read that passage from
the book of Matthew this is in the NIV
chapter 13 12 23 we're going to read the
whole thing because for some of you it
might have been a while since you've
read this passage so here we go that
same day Jesus went out of the house and
SAT by the lake such large crowds
gathered around him that he got into a
boat and sat in it while all the people
stood on the shore then he told them
many things in parables saying a farmer
went out to sow his seed as he was
scattering the seed some fell along the
path and the birds came and ate it up
some fell on rocky places where it did
not have much soil it sprang up quickly
because the soil is shallow but when the
Sun came up the plants were scorched and
they withered because they had no root
other seed fell among thorns which grew
up and choked the plants still other
seed fell on good soil were produced to
crop a hundred sixty or thirty times
what was sown he who has ears let him
hear the disciples came to him and asked
why they speak to people in parables he
replied the knowledge of the secrets of
the kingdom of heaven have been given to
you but not to them whoever has will be
given more and he will have an abundance
whoever does not have even what he has
will be taken from him
this is why I speak to them in parables
though seeing they do not see though
hearing they do not hear or understand
in them is fulfill the prophecy of
Isaiah you will be ever hearing but
never understanding you will be ever
seeing but never perceiving for this
people's hearts have become callous they
hardly hear with their ears and they
have closed their eyes otherwise they
might see with your ear eyes hear with
your ears and understand what their
hearts and turn and I would heal them
but blessed are your eyes because they
see in your ears because they here for I
tell you to choose many prophets and
right to spend long to see what you see
but did not see it and to hear what you
hear but do not hear it listen then to
what the parable of the sword means when
anyone hears the message about the
kingdom and does not understand that the
Evil One comes and snatches away what
was sown in his heart this is the seed
so along the path the one who received
the seed that fell on rocky places is
the man who hears the word and at once
receives it with joy but since he has no
root he lasts only a short time when the
trouble or persecution comes because of
the word he quickly falls away the one
who received the seed that fell among
the thorns is the man who hears the word
but the worries of this life and the
deceitfulness of wealth choke it making
it unfruitful
but the one who received the seed that
fell on good soil is the man who hears
the word and understands it he produces
a crop yielding a hundred sixty or
thirty times what was sown this is the
word of the Lord so just we want to do a
quick review here this seed is and I
love love asking review questions so I'm
going to ask questions care is going to
answer let's see how much she remembers
ok what is the seed the word of god jack
ok how does the sower so the sea
generously abundantly nice 242 what or
how does the path become the path from
people walking on it
Thanks alright why does the evil one
steal the sea but it doesn't take root
and producer
is that right yeah
cuz he knows it will cuz it's so good
because he is so good yo its to see that
Satan would not steal the seat if it was
not good that's true how is hard ground
softened well
when we talked in previous shows if
someone's heart was hard it was softened
through the love of other
nothing what wet flaws are frozen heart
an act of true love an act of true like
he frozen Thank You frozen so we titled
this that one I didn't think this was
going to be a Disney review but we could
do disney review but we're not really
sure how that would connect so we titled
this saying rocks are dangerous so where
I say rocks are dangerous they are
dangerous I think of falling rocks
avalanches etc I pay me by dangerous
well I
dangerous because if you throw a rock
and you can kill them that's true I you
can trip on a rock we were we were
hiking and we're always whenever I go
hiking like ha if i was to trip and fall
what would happen and normally as I
hidden Rock that I you know that we
stumbled on or yeah that yeah and so
it's like hot rocks can be very
dangerous and like we think in the way
that they can those are very obvious
ways that rocks can harm us but when you
think about a plant if they are planted
in rocky soil the root system actually
stays along the top of the soil because
the rocks are there like they they can't
get past it they can't get pass it and
so they can't actually go down in times
of drought and I can't reach the water
if there's under water system yes and so
rocks actually impede
how deep someone's our a tree's roots go
down they also so they absorb the water
they also are not the rocks but the
roots and so this is how important the
roots are and it was interesting because
I thought it was studying this I guess
they never really thought about how
important routes are the plans and yet
roots gives stability if you some trees
have more underground root system then
they have above system and that's real
purpose of getting water and gaining
nutrients and also they are storage
system in times of drought and so if
it's you know dry out then the the roots
actually store the waters are they are
the result the reserve so they you know
and they regulate what's going on there
their nutrient regulators in the rest of
the tree which I thought very
interesting how how important routes are
and yet it says that some fell on rocky
places where it did not have much soil
it sprang up quickly because the soil
was shallow but when the Sun came up the
roots were scorched and they withered
and I'm like the rocks got in the way of
the plant producing fruit okay so if we
were good because obviously this isn't a
lesson in agriculture in fact I needed
to ask some of my anger culture friends
tell me about roots why are what's
important and it was great because they
told me but the question is like what
does that actually mean for us like why
would why would Jesus say that you know
was shallow so what does it mean that
like he goes on to explain it that the
one who received the seed that fell on
rocky places is the man who hears the
word and at once receives it with joy
well that would be my first question is
why did he receive it with joy well we
can I talked about this and it's like
well
if you're if the soil of your heart is
shallow yeah what what does that
actually mean because it's it's
affecting how he actually perceives the
sea right yeah and so well I think he
receives it with joy because it's good
like it's called the good news like what
do you mean I get to go to heaven like
what do you mean I can have peace like
what do you mean I can have joy what do
you mean I can be set free like it's
like yeah yeah I want all those things
and people want Jenny Wiley want all of
those things they want to receive those
things with with joy because it is
joyful but I had listened to someone
discuss this who said they received it
with joy but that was actually a sign
that maybe they didn't fully understand
the gospel of the Cross was about and
that they needed to repent so it's the
full understanding yeah what it means to
follow Christ because it's one thing to
receive a gift but it's something else
totally to actually walk it out
because I can receive a gift for
Christmas and be like yeah this is nice
nice coat nice coat and then it hangs in
my closet and people can say well why
are you not wearing that coat and i'm
like i'd have to put it on
like I'd have to I received it with joy
that's it like wow this is an amazing
coat look how warm it is in it and then
it's like oh man it's it's going to be
so bulky when I sit in the card I'm
gonna have to get it cleaned if it gets
dirty and you can come up with all sorts
of reasons why you don't actually put
the coat on even though it protects you
from winter right it keeps you warm and
so when we talk about receiving the
gospel with joy it's like receiving that
coat it's like ah yeah and then it's
like well what do you mean in order to
receive and utilize it I'm going to have
to repent so we're going to pause for a
commercial break we want you to think
about that for a second have you wear
your life have you received the gospel
and you want it but yet you're not
really willing
to walk it out
let's move back after this Jeff Weston
Yemen you're building a brand-new
beautiful website what are you all right
you're terrible actor what does we're
acting comes into play I don't know
where I think you're supposed to act
okay I'm building a really cool website
are you building a really cool website
you need hosting one of the things about
a hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
let's sure how much hard drive space do
you have how many email accounts how
many domains can point to it well we've
got an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cat five dot TV / dreamhost
for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting unlimited
email accounts on that hosting service
you are also going to receive a free
domain name the rules are your own com
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat five dot TV /
dreamhost just don't put the peddle the
papers are just don't do it but hey it's
a great deal folks best deal you're
gonna find five dollars and change per
month go to cap five dot TV / dreamhost
welcome back to new every day we're
containing continuing our show of a
parable of the sower
being a parable of the rocky soil so
Jenny left us with a question the
question is I wanted you to think about
just how have have you received the
gospel but you're struggling with areas
of actually walking it out that whole
idea of giving it up like giving up
things and the thing is it's that
letting go of sin well because if the
roots can't get down like what are those
rocks yes and so rocks our sin is the
sin in our life you might be thinking
about I was forgiven of the sin well yes
when we come to Christ we are forgiven
of our sins when we choose to repent but
it's the sinful nature it's those things
that kick I like I always say yes the
old has gone the new has come a second
Corinthians 5 17 the old has gone the
new has come but the old nature will
still kick which is why some people say
well I thought I have been set free from
this and the answer is yes you have been
set free from the power of it in your
life but you still have a willful choice
to to follow in that way so it's that
sinful nature that's Romans 772 25 and
but then it's also mindset it's that way
of thinking okay
give you an example like like way of
thinking that becomes an impediment to
growth yes so supporting me and like an
example would be what we've always done
it this way like like my parents never
said it was wrong to go into a store and
not put something in your pocket and
walk out with it right so you've always
done that like it just and so at you
know to walk in and go oh no this is
wrong right you actually have to change
the way that you think to be like I was
never told this was wrong but now I
realize it is wrong well you know what I
can think of an example is a family
member of mine when he became a
Christian never thought anything about
like the magazines that are at the
checkout and now
you know it's often women like if
there's even topless women on the front
of magazines and he never thought
anything about it yeah just nice to look
at but then after he came to Christ he
found that it really bothered him which
was very interesting because that was a
change of heart then what I like he had
me wise to see it right and so is that
those mind says in Romans 12 2 says be
transformed by the renewing of your mind
that whole idea we have to ask Christ to
renew our mind and if righteousness is
being set apart for God right living
that when God looks at us he sees the
righteousness of his son mm-hmm and I
think about if the seed is the word of
God and Timothy it says that the Word of
God is useful for teaching correcting
rebuking and training in righteousness
doing what is right I think that God
actually loves and that produces good
things in your life and good things and
those around you mm-hmm and so to put to
grab ahold of that word of God and use
it for those things let it letting it
speak into your life to remove those
sinful the mindsets or when you read it
and you challenge though maybe it's
unforgiveness or pride or selfishness
right those are all sins that can be so
hard to let go of and you know you can
think well I thought why can't I just do
this well sometimes it isn't you're so
used to doing things you've trained your
mind to do to be selfish and you don't
even realize that you're being selfish
until you read the Word of God that sort
of just oh I am being selfish i am being
unkind i am being prideful about
something and so those are if we don't
remove those rocks right which are
illuminated by the Holy Spirit through
the power of reading the word then they
create impediments to the roots going
down
you know I was just thinking about the
passage I think it's in James
where
he talks about how kindness leads
holiness leads to brotherly kindness
leads to love there's a hole right
walking through of different attributes
that should be possessed increasing
measure in the Christian life right
right and it says if you're not growing
in these areas I am paraphrasing then
it's because you've forgotten that
you've been forgiven of your past sin
so sometimes Jen I wonder
mine's that's because people don't
actually
grasp the idea that i am forgiven and i
don't have to do those things
and I struggle with that sometimes
because I don't we've talked about this
a lot how when a sin is identified
I am not so prone to introspection to
identify where it comes from and all
these things and get rid of it instead
of saying what God's dealt with it
dealt with it and I just choose to
believe it that I'm forgiven and move
forward from that and I realize maybe
there's some aspects of life that that's
not so easy to do but do you have
thoughts on that
with regards because I you know and
Carrie and I have talked about the slugs
I tend to be more introspective and
saying or what is the root cause of this
because I don't want to go back there
anymore and giving over that i want to
say the root cause area to God so that I
don't have to go back and so you do need
the both end to say I have been forgiven
of this I don't need to do this yeah and
for me I I feel like you have to go back
to well where did that first start and
to heal up that place so that I don't
have to continue to say but I've been
forgiven of that you know and I'm gonna
cough so hold on a second but I believe
it is the both and to recognize that we
have been forgiven but also just go to
that place and say God I don't I don't
want to go back to this area I don't
want to do this anymore so why is it
that I continue to do this and you know
this passage talks about when the Sun
comes out they the plant withers away so
they receive it
they spring up and then the Sun comes
out and the plant starts to wither well
that's because they didn't have any
roots or they didn't count the cost of
following Christ and that that word us
up to fall away in the Greek is scandal
scandal is 0 or which action is like
they were scandalized right there's like
what do you mean I have to do this right
so they've they're okay they're like and
we talk about this like the gospel is
good news right Jesus came to die on the
cross for our sins so we could be set
free from the power of sin so we can
have relationship and God yay gospel
woohoo like yes yeah and then there's
scandalized by that what do you mean
this is gonna take a little bit of work
like what do you mean I have to give up
everything what do you mean I have to
die to myself what do you mean I have to
give up my sin cuz the gospel is good
news we can be made right with God but
that means Jesus I deny yourself pick up
your cross and follow me like
and you're like wait is like that's
people are hard like you're scandalized
that whole idea and even carry sad like
that idea of I have been forgiven like
realizing that like you even have to
claim the forgiveness it's not like I
want to say a free pass it's like you
have yes you have acid you love that
concept of the gospel well the flip side
is now that you have to repent and you
have to allow the Holy Spirit to bring
up those rocks in your life those things
those mindsets that pride that
unforgiveness that selfishness so and
are actually offering them to him saying
would you please remove these from my
life so that the roots of the good news
and repentance can go deep so I can
fully appropriate forgiveness the things
that I've been set free from in the
depths of my life and so it says I
believe that the deeper you are with
Jesus the last offended you will become
because that gospel message has gone
sewing d is life-giving right it has
tapped into i want to say with that
passage in Psalms where it says lessons
is the man who does not walk in the
counsel of the wicked or stand in the
way of center or sits centers are sit
within the seat of mockers but de la his
delight is in the law of the Lord and on
his law he meditates day and night he is
like a tree planted by streams of water
which yields its fruit and seas
and whose leaf does not wither whatever
he does prospers you know Jen when I
heard that first I thought the tree
isn't planted in the river it was beside
it which means that the roots have to go
down and reach the waters yes so in
order for those roots to go down and
reach the water source the rocks have to
come up like the rocks have to be dealt
with so the question is I love asking
questions I just ask questions all the
time that's how you get so smart care is
also going to ask the questions FYI the
question is what are the rocks in your
life like what are the rocks that are
impede the roots from coming down so
that when the like because you can sort
of sense it in your life is like when
that Sun comes out right and it says the
Sun it shines on the reins on the
the weekend the the righteous and the
wicked right so the Sun comes out on
everyone and it's like where where do
you feel like your withering Dean yes
and then come though ask the question
Lord why is it that I feel so weak in my
faith when this happens because is there
an opinion and impediment there is there
a rock there that's that my roots aren't
going down deep enough my faith isn't
strong enough and yes it's true you can
have the faith of a mustard seed you can
move mountains but what is it that when
that thing happens you start yes I'm
melting like oh please don't ask me to
do that or the fear comes in or whatever
well is that because the roots are
hitting against something and actually
like you said haven't don't have the
freedom to get down into that water of
life giving strength
so why you think about that
and I'm going to do some good thinking
on that so thanks for leaving us with
that Jack do you want to pray for us
sure Heavenly Father thank you so much
for your word and how it reveals and
Lord would you show us in our life the
rocks that are impeding us from our
roots going deep down and drinking up
your life giving water and Lord if
there's unrepentant in our hearts would
you show that to us we don't want
anything separating us from you
Lord we're in the areas of our life
where we love thats it
would you convict our hearts and help us
to surrender to you we ask this in your
name
thanks for tuning in again and we hope
that you will ponder some of those
questions and grow in a deeper
relationship with the gods or so much
they'll have a great week
you
