I'm gonna tell you exactly what we need
for today's project and before I do I'm
gonna tell you what this is gonna do
okay we're gonna create something
tonight that is going to light a light
uh-huh whenever category-five technology
TV is live on the air
oh okay when we sign off it's gonna turn
off the light yes you can place this
device anywhere in the world as long as
it has an internet connection you're
gonna build it yourself we're gonna do
it with a Raspberry Pi and a cup it's
gonna tell you when we're live so I'm
gonna jump over here and I've got a
little bit of walking to do so talk
amongst yourselves while I get over here
this is great this is what we need great
reminder yes this is what we need we
need now there's a Raspberry Pi in
behind here with Ethernet cable plugged
into it I've got the tea cobbler this is
an optional component but it really
really helps to be able to connect
everything together and it shows you the
pin assignments which are really really
helpful we're going to need one led
we're gonna need a 330 ohm resistor can
you folks see that there yeah and then
we're going to need a couple of cables
to wire it all together very very simple
circuit and you can see how I've wired
this so first of all the LED so just
note that the longer leg is going to be
your positive so that's going to go into
pin 18 which is 3.3 volts all right so
that is I've already connected
everything together just for the sake of
the show so the longer pin is going into
pin 18 and then the shorter end of the
LED which is the negative also called
the the cathode that is going to go to
the lane that has the resistor so what
the resistor is going to do and it's
focusing on my hand rather than the that
doesn't really work very well so what
this is going to do let's grab a
screwdriver here so the resistor is
going to prevent too much power from
coming back along the negative cable
into the ground and that's going to
prevent the Raspberry Pi from getting
overloaded if you leave out the resistor
there is a potential chance that if the
ball blew or if there was too much
voltage going into the bulb it could
feed back into the ground and damage
your Raspberry Pi so that resistor is
just going to help protect you so a very
very simple circuit we've got pin 18
coming off the tea cobbler which is
plugged into a raspberry
pi3 going to the long end of an LED then
the short end is going to a 330 ohm
resistor out to the ground of the
Raspberry Pi ok so far so far so good
and so far so good
right mixels notice no soldering
involved prototyping today yes just so
that you can see how it's done you can
solder it you can put it into a nice
little case do whatever you want
we're using an LED you could use a relay
right in place of the LED get a 3.3 volt
relay and then you can trip a 110
breaker and turn on a big sign whatever
you want to do okay first thing we need
to do on our Raspberry Pi now I've
already done this but I want to show you
just because it is necessary we need to
install a program called get and get is
going to allow us to download
repositories and we're gonna need that
functionality app install get and you
might want to do an apt update first you
can see git is already the newest
version on my computer and that's
exactly what we're looking for this is a
clean vanilla raspbian light
installation so I just installed this on
a Raspberry Pi 3 Model D okay so next I
need a application that will allow me to
communicate easily with the GPIO I don't
want to get into creating registers and
making all kinds of crazy stuff there's
there are tools that are out there that
make it a lot easier to communicate with
that general purpose input output of the
Raspberry Pi which are all those pins so
you've got 40 pins right yeah you can
plug into those and do all kinds of
things we didn't program what we want to
do with them this is like the most basic
thing but we're going to be tying it
into our API so it makes it a little bit
more exciting so the tool that we're
going to use I'm just going to go into
my temp folder which resets removes
everything that I put in here after a
reboot so it's good spot to do this get
clone so remember I installed get and
I'm also super user I have to be route
for these for these things so if you're
not already route the way to do that is
sudo su alright sudo su and then CD
slash temp why do you have to be root
you have to be able to access the
hardware GPIO you have to be able to
access the the folders like user local
bin
you don't want permissions issues but it
particularly you need to be able to
access the GPIO which requires root
access so we're gonna get clone and then
we want to grab this tool called wiring
PI which we're gonna get from git colon
slash slash and remember I'm gonna put
all the these commands in the notes
below draw gone dotnet not dragon dotnet
and then slash wiring and be mindful
it's a capital P on PI wiring PI
destination path wiring PI already
exists Oh apparently I already tested
this I'm gonna remove it just that I can
show you from scratch ok so try that
again there we go okay so now CD wiring
PI with a capital P or I just type WI
and then hit tab and you'll see a couple
of files here but we need to build this
so we just go dot slash build enter and
you wait and you wait and assuming you
are not on a Raspberry Pi 0 it will
happen quite quickly now if you type
GPIO you'll see that it actually gives
output I don't have to be in that folder
I can be anywhere GPIO and it gives
output okay so now I can actually start
utilizing those GPIO connectors on my
Raspberry Pi right which are connected
to a tea cobbler again it's just a
convenience thing you don't have to have
a tea cobbler you can solder things to
your Raspberry Pi but this is just a
really easy way to prototype so the
first thing I need to do because all
GPIO pins are input set when you first
boot it we need to set that GPIO which
is you remember do you remember what
number we plugged it into you can see it
if you're looking on the screen there
number 18 eight number 18 is 3.3 volts
output when it is enabled or they call
that high
okay so on pin 18 I have to change that
from input to output so I go GPIO - G
mode 18 that's the pin number output
enter now my GPIO pin is an output pin
instead of an input pin now I want to
turn on the light just to test it
because I want to make sure that it's
working and sure I've wired everything
correctly so GPIO - G right pin 18 and
we're gonna put one one sets it to high
aka on a KA 3.3 volts it's gonna be a
little less because of that resistor so
now when I hit enter in three two one
yeah it's on there we go sweet now
similarily is that excited I know right
so similarly I can remove that zero that
one and add a zero and it will turn it
off yes simple things folks simple
things this is what happens if you take
a week off so now you say yeah so now
you say well what can we do with this
well category five has a live API it
just responds with either 0 or 1 0 if
we're off the air 1 if we are on the air
you'll find this at live dot cap 5 dot
TV slash API slash real time and you
just pull that I'm using W get using
curl whatever you want so if I do that
so if I do W get HTTP colon slash slash
live dot cat 5 dot TV slash API slash
real time and then it gave me a file
called real time I'm gonna cat that and
you see it's 1 you see that yes maybe it
would be easier if I did it this way if
I double you get and then instead I'm
gonna output to the screen instead so W
get I think it's - Q - OH - 1 see the 1
and then it says root mm-hmm and echo
you know and and echo quote quote
that'll help there 1 if we were off the
air it would be a zero okay so this
command is going to tell us whether
we're on or off the air now incidentally
there's another helpful
tool on our API called test and it will
automatically change between on the air
and off the air without you having to do
anything see how it was won first and
then it turned to a zero right every
thirty seconds it changes so that's a
great way to be able to test our code
before we move it over to real time so
that we can see if everything is working
so I've created a repository for yeah
let's go into home slash PI and let's go
get clone HTTP colon slash slash
github.com slash cat five TV slash cat
five TV - live we're gonna clone that
into our slash home slash PI folder now
it's their CD Cat five TV - live slash
SH and you can see a couple of little
tools there that are gonna be very very
helpful for us so in just a couple of
moments time we're gonna learn how to
tap into that API and turn on and off
that light depending whether or not
we're on the air so cool
stick around
[Music]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
PNH photo/video ebay or amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
to category 5 technology TV we are
turning on the lights sort of no but
that's what we're covering we're taking
a look at a Raspberry Pi we're using the
breadboard and we're showing you how to
use a little program from from
category-five to turn the light on when
we are live on the air and you know what
it's really just a proof of concept yes
because the whole idea behind this
demonstration is just to get you excited
about hey you know what I can actually
do some things with this you could use
grep and you could find out if the
school buses are cancelled in your area
right and you can have a little light go
red if the school buses are canceled get
the kids excited every morning if the
light is red you know do whatever you
want to do you can use all kinds of
tools and and the what you do is really
up to you and we're just working with
one GPIO pin I almost feel like this
could be used as some sort of like a
Pavlov's dog kind of situation you know
just put lights around your house and
randomly turn them on it's like oh it's
dinnertime
turn it off oh it's dinnertime like a
light that was like so so practical
that's so incredibly practical okay so
we mentioned about our API and our API
just tells you whether or not we are
live and it look
a little something like that so we're
off the air
zero see how it returns a zero I'm using
the test API C so if I keep running that
it's eventually going to change to a 1
right because those switches every 30
seconds yeah and I see that some of it
gets cut off there on your screen don't
worry about it you can see what that as
it Scrolls out oh it's taken a little
longer one we are on the air the light
didn't turn up
that's because we haven't coded it to
yet Jeff the light GPIO right number 18
1 there you go Jeff yes there you are
ok so that's the thing we want it okay
first of all we need to create some kind
of intelligence to say to create a loop
and say are we live or are we not live I
almost feel like there was a slam on me
because I want to see the light we need
to create some sort of intelligence so
here's a simple tool that I just whipped
up for ya you can see that it's got both
the api's we've got the test API the
toggles every 30 seconds and we've got
the real-time API then we've got a quick
loop and here's what we're doing
now we've already learned some of these
things so we're setting the live
variable in bosh using W get and then
whichever API we're using and then we're
outputting the response of that rather
than downloading a file ok
so live is going to become either a 0 or
a 1 if live is 0 say we're off the air
if live is 1 say we're on the air and if
it doesn't know either way if it's not a
0 or a 1 it will say unknown and low and
then it will output whatever it output
may be my servers offline or something
like that then it will sleep for 10
seconds which means the loop is going to
wait 10 seconds before going again and
the first thing it does when it restarts
the loop it do is it reloads the API to
check what the status is so if I run
this code we can see we're off the air
no we're not this is the test API right
and it's going to keep checking every 10
seconds we know that the API is going to
change the test API changes every 30
seconds so the most we're going to see
is 3 off the airs and 3 on the errors
and that's going to loop right ok and so
when you've got something like this I
mean could you
something other than a light could you
have like a little bell the dings or
could you sure you could program like
you're Alexa to sake a 5 is on the air
or something like that you could do any
number of things now you see we're on
the air because 30 seconds have gone by
and so it's on the air as I mentioned
you can use a relay in place of an LED a
relay will take a small voltage like 3.3
volts and allow you to use up to two
hundred and ten volts or something like
that so you can you can have a 3.3 volt
trigger flip the relay which connects
the connectors for the 110 okay and then
turns on whatever you want or you know
that's the GPIO scenario anyway so you
can really do anything as far as
communicating with Alexa that's a whole
other thing
that's not something that we're doing
here with no fur that's certainly not
something we do I didn't know what
program would like if you programmed it
to that it would go that far you could
make it do any number of things but all
this does is it gives a 3.3 volt signal
or it turns off the 3.3 volt signal an
LED is the most simple way to
demonstrate that that is actually taking
place right yeah okay but I think a
relay really opens it up to new
possibilities so now we see that that
loop is happening we're off the air
we're on the air because it's the test
API now if I switch that instead to the
actual real-time API so comment out the
test API and run that we're gonna see
that every time it's gonna say that we
are on air because right now we're
broadcasting so we are in fact on air so
that's what it's going to output so I've
created a second tool which just takes
that to the next step so again it uses
everything that I've already
demonstrated and shown you here to be
able to do what we want which is
inevitably turn on the light turn off
the light depending on whether or not
we're on the air so I've set the GPIO
pin as a string so that you can change
that if you want to a different GPIO pin
I've set that to pin 18 then I'm saying
if the GPIO executable exists in user
local bin then we can continue if not
it's going to warn us you haven't
installed wiring pi yet
okay because remember that was one of
the first things we had to do right
then we need to set the pin for output
we already demonstrated that but we're
using the string instead of having to
put 18 we're using dollar sign pin so
that is now an output pin at the
beginning notice there's no loop yet
okay because we don't need to turn it
output output output over and over again
now clear the light state if it is on
we're gonna turn it off the first of the
first run and then and we already
learned that command as well then we
start our loop and this is exactly the
same as the loop that we just looked at
mm-hmm except for one thing and that is
that I've added the GPIO statement so we
grab the API from the whichever API is
selected then we see whether it is zero
in which case we say off the air but
then we also turn off the light okay
right we're writing to the pin 18 zero
if it's live so one we say on the air to
the terminal and then we take pin 18
dollar sign pin and we set it to one so
pull it off okay then we sleep for 10
seconds now let's see what happens so
you see on the screen now I'm gonna run
that GPIO dot SH enter oh we're on the
air so now remember we're using the test
API so every 30 seconds is going to turn
on or off the air it's gonna respond
with either a 1 or a 0 every 30 seconds
so right now we're on the air so the
device that you've created now the light
is on that you know oh it's time for
category 5 time to make popcorn or
whatever it is the court has passed you
need to get to your feed wait for it
wait for it oh we're gonna go off the
air now no we're not yeah
here goes so that's as simple as it is
really really simple programming really
really simple circuit you can build
something like that and it takes you 10
minutes realistically sure take my code
study it I mean it's really really
simple I just whip that up before the
show just to be able to demonstrate it
for you without making too many mistakes
here on the air while we're live and and
it works great and it could be used for
so many different things you know I mean
I'm truly sitting there going I'm
picturing like building a house and
firing lights all over the place that
offer a Raspberry Pi why not yes you
also you could be in the kitchen you
talk a little switch it's like ooh
dinner's on or you know all that kind of
stuff so that all the bedrooms just have
this little light because often they
give you kids commuting homework and
they're like oh there's ready so this is
where we need to tell you about voltage
and yes you don't want to pull too many
volts off of the Raspberry Pi you can't
hook it up to your microwave to pop the
popcorn but with a relay against you can
then use like a four amp power supply
plug that into the relay then plug the
relay into the 3.3 volt right a GPIO and
you can have the real a trip to trigger
a 12 volt 4 amp circuit it does whatever
you need Dennis Kelly asks and I think I
know the answer to this so is there a
way to make it come on 15 minutes before
the show the truth of the matter is we
kind of go live a couple minutes before
the show anyway right you know it would
be fine so what's interesting about this
is the moment I push live on Telestream
Wirecast our server database creates a
variable in our server
it's a session variable that says we're
live yes so it automatically creates all
the feeds and puts everything up and
does all that and and does everything
that happens yeah I get a little pop up
on my screen there you go right so what
you will get in that moment is the light
will come on not not when we start hey
welcome to category 5 no as soon as we
push that we're live button and we're
streaming to the web it's usually about
15 minutes before the show that's gonna
happen so try the circuit and if you try
this simple simple circuit and the
simple software that I've provided for
you to get started we'd love to see your
pictures we'd love to hear from you and
know how it's worked out and make sure
that you've got it near the TV next time
you're watching category-five TV when
you're watching live and if you're not
familiar with our live schedule it's
every Wednesday night at 7 o'clock
Eastern Time
that's when we are actually broadcasting
live if you're watching it elsewhere you
may be watching like a recording or
something else
[Applause]
