welcome back to new every day my name is
Carrie and my name is Jen and on today's
show we're going to talk about how rocks
can remind us of God's faithfulness so
stay tuned
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat five dot TV / Linda welcome
back to new every day so glad that you
tuned in and it's almost Christmastime
and last week we introduced an
opportunity that you can help us out of
how you can help us out by donating to
actually keep our show on the air keep
the episodes coming we're so thankful to
do this but again it does require some
money we're so thankful for Robbie
Ferguson and category 5 TV Robbie's our
producer and editor of the show and it's
all voluntary right John Socinus we need
to be able to keep it going so we would
love for you to go into our website new
everyday TV click on our partners page
and you can go to Amazon from there and
do some Christmas shopping hey Jen do
some Christmas shopping or just regular
everyday shopping I have just found out
that you can buy shampoo from Amazon
come on I know so if you need something
just go through our website into amazon
there's also a wide variety of other
partners yep on our website as well that
you can check out lots and lots so
please take a moment and go to our
website check them out maybe you need
fresh razors or maybe you need to create
a sign a t-shirt I know who doesn't need
that who doesn't actually a friend of
mine made me a t-shirt so yeah traveler
one will try here more so anyways it
just lets your creative side blossom so
if you need to buy some shampoo or to
let your Creator
side blossom check out our website new
everyday TV the other opportunity that
you have to help us out is by donating
25 cents per episode that's a dollar a
month all you have to do is go to
patreon.com/scishow set up an account
where 25 cents will come off your credit
card sorry it'll be a dollar a month 25
cents per episode and in that way you
can really help us out our viewership is
it has grown so much which we are so
thankful for and we would so appreciate
the help so without further ado rocks
we're talking about rocks rocks rock on
and what's interesting is on my desk in
my preview previous office I had three
rocks that I had picked up when i was in
new brunswick and i had them in the form
of a snowman because it was one on top
of another but it reminded me of my trip
to New Brunswick hmm with my spiritual
dad because we went on a course together
down there and we went for a walk with
some friends and I picked up these rocks
but but they reminded me of my trip down
there so every time I looked at those
rocks I was like oh yeah he thought
about the people you are with I thought
about walking along the the water and
how he actually climbed over some logs
and I think we had lobster on that track
for the first time and it was just so
cool like that those rocks reminded me
of that time and dolphin do that with
sand actually you know it'll bring sand
back from Florida or myrtle beach or
wherever they go yeah to remind them of
the trip yes and then my little cousin
mary had given me some rocks and they
went into the back of my car and they
lived there for a really long time and
everybody would get inside why are these
rocks here I'm like well they're from
Mary she's like and they'd be like you
want me I'm like yep because they were
me of Mary you kept thinking of her
every time that they were mentioned I
kept thinking about her every time they
were mentioned and so that's why when we
talk about rocks and how they help us
remember in my life they really have hot
rocks really have yes hasn't been rocks
in my life but we were talking last week
about the value of reflecting and
remembering God's goodness and her in
our lives and sometimes that's taking
them in a minute to just think about the
random things that have happened through
the day and allowing Holy Spirit to
remind you of God's goodness and the
things that you need to be thankful for
and Jen in the Old Testament the
Israelites were told to remember and
they did that in a special way do you
want to tell them well they would set up
a rock when Jacob I left his family and
went on in search of his mother's
brother Laban and his family he actually
met God and he set up a rock and poured
oil on it and it was he called it Bethel
and so he set up that rock and that was
to remind him that he had met with God
there right and then when the Israelites
crossed over into the Jordan they also
were told to pick up some rocks from the
center of the Jordan River where it had
bunched all up and they were to pick up
rocks and make a pile so that they would
remember what had happened so let me
just read that this is from Joshua for
after all the people had finished
crossing the Jordan the Lord said to
Joshua choose 12 men from among the
people one from each tribe tell them to
get 12 rocks from the middle of the
river from where the priest stood carry
the rocks and put them down where you
where you stay tonight so Joshua chose
one man from each tribe then he called
the twelve men together and said to them
go out into the river where the Ark of
the Lord your God is each of you bring
back one Rock for one for each tribe of
Israel and carry it on your shoulder big
rocks okay they will be a sign among you
in the future your children will ask you
what do these rocks mean
tell them the water stopped flowing in
the Jordan when the Ark of the agreement
with the Lord crossed the river these
rocks will always remind the Israelites
of this so the Israelites obeyed Josh
one carried 12 rocks from the middle of
the Jordan River one rock for each of
the twelve tribes of Israel just as the
Lord had commanded Joshua they carried
the rocks with them and put them down
where they made their camp Joshua also
put 12 rocks in the middle of the Jordan
River where the preset stood while
carrying the Ark of the agreement these
rocks are still there today huh so every
time they passed by that place they'd be
reminded of the event that happened
there is and I loved it because they it
said and when your children asked
because then you can tell them and so it
was part of the passing on of how
faithful God had been so they set up a
sign right for future generations so the
purpose was for the people to actually
pass their children by it so the parents
could teach their children about God's
faithfulness so it's like when we
reflect we actually can take those
stories and share with our kids with our
family with our friends God's
faithfulness revelation 12 11 says by
the blood of the Lamb and the word of
their testimony they overcame the Evil
One and they were we often leave off the
end of that so I'm going to find it and
read it word for word because I don't
want you to just think it's that easy it
says they did not love their lives so
much that they were afraid of death so
they were willing to share their
testimony to the point of of death for
the purpose of overcoming the evil one
the pile of rocks caused the parents to
share their story with God hmm which is
so interesting is like so my question
you know for me is like what are those
things in my life that are like piles of
rock that will cause people to ask
questions to me what is that and then I
can say well actually that are
minds me of God's faithfulness in this
situation right like this was not a well
let's just hide these rocks in our
pocket like these are rocks that they
had on their shoulders right that they
are bringing out it was in a big pile
and made a big pile for people to see
right yeah for people to see and to ask
questions yes and so let that's
challenging to us like it's a visual
thing whether that's a tradition you
might have or even saying grace before a
meal yes that's not very status quo
anymore yet you stop and you give thanks
people see that and might ask why you're
doing it yeah yeah yeah what are those
things in your life that are visible
representations of God's faithfulness to
you that then will cause you that when
somebody asks to share the gospel to
share God's faithfulness yes just like
those rocks in the backseat where are
these rocks here they remind me of Mary
you know why are those rocks on your
desk well they remind me of this really
cool time that I had Down East um you
know what Jen that also reminds me but
why it's important that we actually live
in community and talk to other people
who love Jesus and it reminds me of the
story of John the Baptist when he was
imprisoned and while he was in prison he
sent sent word to Jesus saying are you
the one we've been waiting for this was
john the baptist right it was in prison
he wasn't singing he wasn't seeing the
the what Jesus was doing in Jesus sent
word back to say here's the evidence the
the blind see the lame walk yeah here's
what I'm doing god is good hmm just
reminded him that sometimes we need each
other to remind us yeah and so one of
the questions we want to put out to you
today is what are those rocks physical
rocks in your life that remind you of
God's faithfulness is it your wedding
ring as you touch your wedding ring do
you go
God has been faithful to us hmm my mom
said one time when we had first come to
Christ so I was in my teens and she read
about the piles of rocks that the
Israelites were asked to make and she
said Carrie it would be so cool if we
made a pile of rocks in our backyard
every time we had like an encounter with
God or we saw him doing an amazing thing
in our lives she said our whole backyard
will be full and she's right you don't
you stop and think about it when you
stop and think how how do you how do you
go about sharing the encounters with
Christ mmm do you just sort of like tuck
them in the back pocket or do you
journal them out or do you make a
physical reminder do you share it do you
verbally share God answered my prayer
pray or I was reading the scripture and
he revealed this to me or he saved me
from this accident like are we
vocalizing right or do we just tuck tuck
tuck and I just sort of don't say
anything and that's he's calling them
he's calling them to be visible put it
out there put those signs put those
maybe it's a picture on the wall or a
plaque or maybe it's something at the
you know he told the Israelites to write
the Ten Commandments on their doorposts
right so they would be visible to see
them every day why because it reminds
them of God's faithfulness right so what
are you doing in your life to remind
yourself of God's faithfulness every
every day on our mirror and on our
microwave it says did you pray about it
yea which was here when we moved in it's
just so cool but it reminds us oh yeah
because I prayed about things in the
past I better pray about this to like it
serves as a reminder of God's
faithfulness so we reflect in order to
produce thanks so we focus on God
but we also build these piles of rocks
so that we reflect and become thankful
and focus on on who God is so maybe if
you have a journal that you've been
keeping take this time this week and
actually go through your journals it's
wonderfully encouraging and sometimes
terribly hilarious depending on how well
do you wear when you wrote them but it
can be really encouraging so Jen why
don't you pray for us just as we wrap up
Heavenly Father I ask that you would
help us to reflect well that you would
show us where you have moved in our
lives and that you would help us to be
thankful help us to be thankful for who
you are and your goodness to us we thank
you so much for the opportunity on the
show to actually think through these
things and Lord how the things that we
learn even from talking right now are
going to impact us even maybe later on
this evening or tomorrow or the next day
and so father you are awesome I love the
way that you work Lord we ask that you
bless those who are watching today we
thank you for category 5 and Robbie and
his family would you watch over them and
keep them safe we thank you we thank you
we thank you you are an awesome awesome
God help us to remember you and I pray
this in the name of Jesus through the
power of the Holy Spirit amen thanks for
tuning in and we will see you next week
new everyday def TV cheers my friend and
thankful for you I'm thankful for you
and you and you
you
