hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie my name is Jen and you are on
the road with us today as we travel
through Kentucky in Tennessee come along
to the ride
[Music]
you
hi and welcome back we are on a road
trip all the way from Ontario down
through the states to Tennessee that's
our ultimate destination and right now
we are in Kentucky and we just went to
the Ark Encounter the life-size model of
Noah's Ark yes what was really
interesting is we needed to get gas
we've had no agenda for this journey and
so I pulled off and I'm like how long do
what the ark encounter is and literally
we carry just went ask someone and she
said it's a life-size replica of the
book biblical ark and we're like well
you want to go check it out and we
agreed like sure let's go so we want to
share with you a little bit about the
journey that we just have to the last
few hours what we're going to start off
by reading the account from the book of
Genesis so this is Genesis 6 verse 9 and
I'll just read a couple of verses here
sorry first 11 the earth was corrupt
before God and the earth was filled with
violence so god looked upon the earth
and indeed it was corrupt for all flesh
had corrupted their way on the earth and
God said to Noah the end of all flesh
has come before me for the earth is
filled with violence through them and
behold I will destroy them with the
earth make yourself an ark of gopher
wood make rooms in the ark and cover it
inside and out without side with pitch
and this is how you shall make it the
length of the ark shall be 300 cubits
it's with fifty cubits and its height
thirty cubits you shall make a window
for the ark and you shall finish it to a
cubit from above and set the door of the
ark in its side you shall make it with
lower second and third deck and behold I
myself and bringing floodwaters on the
earth to destroy from under heaven all
flesh in which is the breath of life
everything that is on the earth shall
die
but i will establish my covenant with
you and you shall go into the ark you
your son's your wife and your son's
lives with you and every living thing of
all flesh you shall bring two of every
sort into the ark to keep them alive
with you they shall be male and female
of the birds after their kind of animals
after their kind of every creeping thing
on the earth after its kind two of every
kind will come to you to keep them alive
and you shall take for yourself of all
food that has eaten and you shall gather
it to yourself and it will be food for
you and for them thus Noah did according
to all that God commanded him so he did
and what really struck us well several
several things struck us one of the
things that really struck was the
conversation the guy on the way back
like what we've gone through everything
and we're on the bus back to get the
vehicle get into our vehicle and this
guy just sits there and he's to talk to
us just randomly and he's like so like
he said yes to God like God asked him to
do and he just did and how many times do
people you know do we get thrown off by
fear the fear of man and here it had
never rained before like everybody says
that Noah was a righteous man and so
people would have been rising up against
him we actually watched a video of this
woman interviewing Noah right she was
all like skeptical and what are you
doing and why are you doing this and you
know that you know it's harder to build
it on a hill and do you know that it's
never rained before and how are you
going to feed all those people and he
just continued to say yes yeah and I
like the last portion of that that
passage that and he did it he just did
it yes that God asked him do something
and he
he just did without question and so this
guy this random guy we just met on the
bus he was saying you know in church or
at work wherever we often get
discouraged when we talk about the
living god who made everything and made
us and has a purpose for us and if we
were ridiculed or people make fun of the
fact that we believe that then we'll
turn away before if you know we're in
church and and sharing the views of what
we actually believe that the Bible is
true and were ridiculed then just leave
just find a new place yeah and it was
really interesting he had he had quite a
lot to share and just encourage Jen and
I to stay true to keep serving God and
to say yes when he asks you to do
something random guy don't know his name
was really nice from Kentucky I could
listen to their accents all day I just
think if you're watching from Kentucky I
just love your accent so beautiful
anyways the as an aside so yeah it was
very interesting so that was probably
one of my highlights because I I just
found that he met everything together
like he God asked Noah and Noah did it
and the fact is it didn't take him just
an hour to build the ark it took them a
hundred years to build the ark and I'm
thinking man it's going to ask me to do
something like I tend to be I want to
get her done right and so if it takes me
you know a couple of days like a sermon
takes about a week you're thinking about
it processing it researching it and I'm
done when I'm done I want to be done I
want to get it together I want to give
it out hmm I couldn't imagine following
through for a hundred years but when he
wouldn't as we walked through it you
begin to realize 14 men work on this
Noah and his three sons
and it's rounded right so they would
have had to bend the the beams they
would have had to cut down trees it
would have had to like San them off and
fit them together and then it said
there's like three tiers like these are
levels yeah levels inside the boat and
I'm just like wow and that doesn't even
include the crates that the animals
would have went into so no wonder it
took a hundred years and a lot of the
exhibit talks about like how was
actually made the engineering behind it
in the ingenuity that it actually took
and how God designed allowed the boat to
float it allowed it to accommodate I was
it almost 7,000 animals oh yeah
something like that right well there was
eight people and they had to take care
of 850 animals each yes which was a ton
but yet talked about the detail of the
engineering and what actually went into
creating it so how it works is that you
walk through they they welcome you in
you walk through up ramps to the
different levels of the ark so the
bottom is like storage where they have
vessels to actually hold the food and
all sorts of stuff like little food and
then the water like it was just very
interesting to see think oh yeah they
would have had to store water yeah the
pecking order food and so then they take
you through some possible of ideas of
how they would have gotten fresh water
because we had like they were on the
boat it says for a hundred and fifty
days hmmm like a full year I think they
were on the boat so it's free safety fun
it rained for 40 days and 40 nights and
then it says and then they were just the
waters right the water's nowhere yeah so
it was like a whole year I think that
they were in there and we all have to go
back and double-check that and and maybe
Robbie can do some school at the bottom
to actually put on an act fun fact with
Robbie Ferguson on you every day but
what was interesting is like how did it
get fresh water how do they deal with
like like the manure build-up and I
found that really growing interesting
the daily life its daily life we don't
read that in Scripture we just read and
Noah did and then God brought the
animals to the ark he closed the door
and it rained in the water you say to me
like we're not told about what happens
but the fact is when you you know we
went in to see this basically it's like
a museum yeah you learn all about it and
you're like I never really thought about
what it would have taken to actually do
the day-to-day life every day yeah on
the ark or to allow ventilation or like
you said fresh water like the
ventilation what they they think
happened was that there was a column a
moon a moon pool so call him inside the
arc that when the wave came up and came
into this column in the middle of the
ark it pushed the air up and then they
had like a one-way valve that would open
up in the fresh air would come in the
valley clothes right valve was closed
and then the waters would recede and
then it would displace more air when the
waves came up so it was like ventilating
the actual boats would all seem like wow
this makes sense this is plausible and
as you walk through they build the case
so they start with the assumption that
the Bible is true that this really
happened and it happened because of
man's sin they talk about the corruption
of man and how when Adam and Eve first
sinned then as the generations went on
people became more and more wicked until
all of their thoughts yeah wicked all of
the time
and that's why God had to bring the
flood so they they weave that story in
the reason why and then finally the
provision of Christ at the end and
explains the meaning behind the gospel
and how it ties in with noah's ark but
yeah it was it was very well done so if
you are in Kentucky come to ark
encounter but come up some questions so
we're going to take a commercial break
and we want you to think about hmm I
wonder how they did not we'll be right
back hold on Jeff westin Yemen you're
building a brand new beautiful website
what are you all right you're terrible
actor what look we're acting comes into
play I don't know where I was it you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account if
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website it's sure how much hard
drive space you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cap five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name through your own comm
site to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine signup cap five gb flash dream
hope don't forget about papers are just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folk fest feel you're going to find five
dollars and change per month going to
cap five dot TV / dreamhost welcome back
to new every day we're in the middle of
our discussion about the Ark Encounter
in Kentucky United States
and then you left us thinking about some
questions you said if you come to
Kentucky if you come to Kentucky and can
we sure a battery doesn't die we're in
the car make sure if the camera is still
going to work yet then you should come
with some questions before you go into
the ark so that you can hopefully have
your questions answered so one question
you had done well and I didn't even
realize I had the question until I got
there and when oh that's how they did
that and I don't know because we watch
the animals going to buy to right and we
just think oh yeah they all just lazed
around everywhere but how did but I had
it they keep the animals separate and
how did they look after the piles of poo
and what about the urine and how did
this all work so the very cool thing is
the first thing you do when you walk
into this and you you see crates of you
know yes backs of crates and the way
that they have them made is it leaves a
little flat that is sort of like on a
right angle an angle with a little spot
in the back where all the poo in the
urine would just feed down and it would
just all feed down into one trough which
would collect and then be pushed pushed
out and gathered up and pushed out I
like ah that's ingenious because I
couldn't imagine having to go in and
clean every single cage right when I
don't even like skipping kitty litter
like I was like okay that's really cool
and the fact that they were actually
stacked on top of each accent I was like
oh I cousin it all collect yes oh yeah
that was really cool and then how do you
actually they had the one really cool
exhibit with em Sabean's and reptiles
and said what if they eat moths well how
do you do that and they show that
potentially they could have had it like
a moth room and as the moth came into
being like the eggs are laid came into
being they would fly up into these lube
a tube for the amphibians and other
things that would eat moth and literally
it would just be this continually
like new source of food and I was like
ah Genie is like moth crate tube reptile
crate and the moss is flying the two and
yeah and what was really cool as they
talked about technology when we often
think people who have come before really
their technology wasn't that great when
really like even Sir Isaac Newton and
says I stand on the shoulders of giants
if I if I can see something more clearly
if I can see farther than others because
I'm sitting on the shoulders of giants
and so this idea like we can think how
how did Noah do that well we also have
to realize like with tubal-cain and with
the line of Cain they already knew how
to make metal objects and they knew how
to make a lot of things so the
technology was there and it might be
more crude than what we would consider
today but the technology was there so
and you also have to remember this is a
god thing so he could have very much
told Noah how to build it I mean
sometimes you just take that out we
think well how did Noah built it while
he was building building it for God
right it wasn't this like when you know
what I'm going to build a mess today
yeah well the next hundred years and the
other thing was that Noah and his sons
they were hundreds of years old already
and so they had experienced and yeah
more cumulative knowledge than we would
have in our life span of one in 80 90
years I know like that for me I didn't
realize it realize I had questions and
ty was actually faced with I want to say
some proof or some new idea that hadn't
of and then I went oh I didn't you
didn't realize what we didn't know we
didn't know what we didn't know yeah so
that was I think that as well was a big
aha moment for me and and because Noah's
Ark is often depicted as like this cute
fairy tale yeah story in children's book
and one portion of this tour is actually
set up and there's a wall of children's
books and you see the spectrum of
interpretation of
biblical account of Noah's Ark and how
it can be deceiving when you look at
it's like a cute story you see this
little bold little model of a bowler and
all these animals crowded around the top
and Noah and his wife and you know his
sons and it looks kind of nice but
really it was terrible time what yet
that was a sign of hope and God's
provision so it was very interesting to
see that this is portrayed as like a
fairy tale like a nice fairy tale to
believe in and that's one of the things
that I was thinking about as we walked
through jen is this believable but can
you cookie there's like we're actually
one in him so it's structurally sound
enough oh yeah see the evidence here but
the first mental leap is to believe that
God exists who told to Santa to it yes
yes you know and so people have a hard
time with Jonah being swallowed by a
whale and you know Noah's Ark but he
also the one who spoke the world into
existence yeah and so if that if you
don't believe that and none of this
makes sense and in in the portion where
you're examining the children's stories
there's a picture of the serpent you
know yeah I think representative of
Satan and it said if what has it goes a
little golly but basically if i can get
you to deny the flood i can get you to
deny heaven and hell as well that they
exist and I was like that's so true and
that's what I loved about that's why
when my favorite rooms was the kids room
yeah because it talks about how evil and
deception slides and I was like mmm I
don't want deception to slide in and and
like I don't want to think of Noah the
story of knowing our Noah Noah and the
building of the ark as whimsical anymore
and oh yeah that's a good test of faith
but it was actually got judgment on the
earth like this isn't a little feel good
fairytale story this is
there was only one person on the earth
to be found right righteous and that was
Noah and God chose to hold on to Noah
and so we're actually going to take
we're going to stop right there we're
going to come back with part two of the
story next week but I want you to think
about that concept of Noah being the
only righteous man and yet their God is
providing away so we're going to stop
and pray dear Lord God thank you so much
that you were faithful to Noah and you
provided a way for him and his family to
be saved so father as we think about
what that means for us I ask in your
name that you would think your truth in
to our intimacy and help us to believe
that you are faithful fast where does
the name of Jesus to the power to homes
and then thanks so much for tuning in
and we hope that you are going to tune
in next week for more of our road trip
adventure through to Tennessee so until
next week haven't
and
