I'm really kind of excited about these
ones though because they look like they
are super comfortable I love to wear my
headphones for an extended time okay I
listen to music while I'm producing
video I'm just kind of dim it down
sometimes I crank it up if I'm doing
cleaning around the house or whatever
right so these ones we're just going to
get right into the box then we're going
to give them a test and we've got our
buddy here mr. binaural dummy head we're
gonna put the headphones on him and
you're gonna be able to hear how how we
hear it as well okay so let's get right
into the box Jeff Sasha
these are the blue do T monitors and you
get these on gearbest cat v TV /
gearbest I've also got a quick link for
you that will take you right to this
particular product it's cat v dot TV /
blue do and it's spelled exactly as you
see there and at the bottom of your
screen let's jump into the box there was
a piece of paper there alright yeah you
got a piece of paper
we got the headphones alright I got cat
5 yellow sweet it matches your coffee
cup Sasha yellow is my favorite color so
how do you like these all right yeah am
i right
okay looks like awfully simple we've got
a USB charge cable here oh and that's
USB C and we've got instructions and I
imagine that's pretty straightforward
that's it that's all that's in the box
so you know it's funny you know I'm
gonna read the instruction instruction
you toss them in the right direction
alright first thing I want to do here I
mean it's it's really simple - to show
you folks something like headphones a
couple of things I notice out of the box
now I haven't really used these yet
there's a lot of good like it feels like
it's metal like look at that like these
are not like a cheap plastic even though
the cost is not is not a lot at all I'm
gonna show you that in just a couple of
moments really nice supple cushions
feel like a like a leather after
something like that there's fabric on
the insides so they they look like
they're gonna be really good for sound
isolation and very comfortable as well I
don't see any controls on this side
there's nothing at all over here no USB
input nothing like that looks like
everything is on this side so it's on or
looks like the little the right side had
no left side headphone so we've got
power here and we've got volume here and
presumably Jeff is looking over the
manual there's probably some other
controls by holding various buttons yeah
oh yeah us ha there's a multi-function
button
oh is it yeah it does some really cool
stuff well I noticed that there's also a
microphone here too so we can presumably
once we've got the power on I can tap
that and it's got a microphone so I can
make phone calls see that little hole
there and you can also control things
like your Google assistant yep things
like that's perfect
you know what's cool this is an EQ
feature you can adjust the EQ how do you
do that
through the multifunction button so the
top button again the power button yeah
personally this Q button wants to change
EQ to adjust music performance so it
goes through different types of eq's
also just cycles through so it's not
like so you just push one okay yeah that
sounds okay push the next one right that
sounds even better I don't like that
headphones don't come with that feature
it's basically like extra bass or no
what would you use it would you use it
absolutely oh yeah yeah yeah like I'll
listen from relaxation like birds and
water flowing music yeah to like hard
rock you know I listen to a lot of like
dubstep electronica EDM yeah vocal
trance and yes yeah well to adjust the
EQ z' is beautiful I also like that I
don't know maybe if your Thunder but
this has got a a cloud-based app that
works through the phone earth through
the headphones with that no way it's a
wait wake up the cloud function so wake
up the cloud yes tell you more it says
the headphone support cloud service
users can download the app by scanning
the QR code on the last page connect the
headset with your phone then
double-click the MF button to wake up
the cloud cloud services on you can just
enjoy smart cloud service I have no clue
what's on the cloud
no idea what that's cool cloud-based
headphone specs wise standby time after
two hours of charging is gonna be about
a thousand alikat these stats excite me
oh my goodness
30 hours of Bluetooth music yeah what
that is cool I love the operating
temperature range though what he got
it's gonna be good for Canada yeah minus
10 to 15 up to 50 so it's not really
good for walking around in the winter
but if you want to go on to the surface
of the Sun you're fine wow I guess
that's good because things don't
generally break in cold temperatures
they break in hot temperature right yeah
so that's cool what else would we got 20
to 20,000 Hertz so it's full range I
want to give these things a listen yeah
they're up to 10 meters this season
always cost me so much money
oh I'm sorry every review things let's
see how this how this goes I'm gonna I'm
gonna push the power button okay I just
tapped it and it did nothing I'm gonna
hold it that don't work on oh she sounds
sultry no okay let's get power on
exactly
yeah but obstructions say power on in
quotes oh yeah oh yeah that's the script
that she read as well let's see if I can
get this sync to my laptop so I'm gonna
go ahead go to bluetooth I'm on Windows
10 here so let's see what I need to do
okay I'm gonna clear out my devices and
let's give it a go so I'm gonna show you
what what it takes here okay so let's
add a device bluetooth I'm gonna hold
well that's my phone okay your pairing
mode you have to hold it until you see
the low it's already there holy MF
button I didn't have to it says T
monitor is connecting comparing
completed okay sweet and let's fire up
some music
[Music]
it's so full switch for the eq's I can't
hear you
that's sound isolation is great yet he
knew I was talking wait for it
that's goosebumps
Oh
that is awesome
those are great you guys have no idea
what I'm hearing absolute was next I'll
do I'll do an okay okay here you go
this is good talk I want to see like in
here right how are you how are you I
love her she yells at us here your talk
here is it all she's probably watching
the migraine and they're comfortable see
the thing I have right now is I have
like little earbud things okay and I
dislike that start to feel uncomfortable
yeah it's ready to go I'm just gonna
push play for you guys got a track
already ready to go multifunction he's
like already into the manual well cuz I
want to check the eq's okay okay okay
what all right yeah what have you done I
killed it you just push stop I thought I
hit the multifunction button hip Lee
hey you hear me now yeah
you look better on me
what do you think you can't hear a thing
is it good
[Laughter]
I'm just gonna go listen for the rest of
the show so let's see okay so you're
you're having trouble figuring out the
buttons yeah okay let's see Q I couldn't
get the key to work okay it seems to
stop it hmm oh I found it
which one was it yep push the up and
down volume control at the same time at
the same time okay I'm sitting the power
button okay those are good you settings
these cells if sounds like there's about
four different ones yeah
I'm not sure that's what is that rate
yeah they do they feel really like I've
got to say those feel good how do they
look like if I was walking I feel like a
DJ again when we were when we were DJs
on radio we didn't have wireless like no
these are streamline to like I feel like
there's a relic there's just no extra
stuff now unlike the ones that we've
reviewed in the past these ones do not
have an SD card reader built-in right
you have to have a supplemental device
to feed the music to it but that's what
you got the cloud I don't know you need
your phone for that too I don't know I
have no idea what the cloud brings you
Jeff but I'm gray honestly I'm Street
i'm yeah i'm streaming music from my
phone from my laptop and so on so that's
really what i want to do those feel
great so those are the blue do t--
monitors and you can get them at cat 5
dot TV slash blue do and I promised you
that I would do
I know that you want to hear it from the
perspective of our dummy head so we're
just gonna pop those on for you now
and let you give that a go the final
dummy head so here's what community
you'd be washing right now we need to
get them burns
[Applause]
oh those are sleek jumping over to
gearbest
at cat5 dot TV slash blue do just so
that you guys can see this is in US
dollars 25:54 amazing really great price
they do come in other colors if you're
not on the yellow now Sasha you're I
know you're like no I'm like they only
come in yellow this is how I know
they're for me they also have a deep
love red and black and they look better
in person I think than I thought they
would look from the picture I'm not a
yellow fan I think I like the yellow the
best yeah
yeah well it's cuz you tried them on and
they look they look really they sound
great I like the sound of yellow deal
that's right
you heard it here folks
