hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie and my name is jen and on
today's show we're going to talk about
how you get swallow cool
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / linda
hi and welcome back to new every day
we're so glad that you've joined us
again and we have an exciting topic to
talk about this week we've talked a lot
about missions in the past and we wanted
to start a series that will take us over
a number of weeks so Jen why don't you
tell our viewers what we're going to be
doing well one of the books of the Bible
that has challenged me for the longest
time has been the Book of Jonah okay
every time I read the book of John I'm
like uh because I feel so much like the
Prophet I feel like so many times in my
life God caused me to do something I'm
like I don't know if I want to do that
or um I don't I'm angry maybe that God
is asking him talk to someone or like
sometimes I just bold face no I men and
I turn around and I go in the opposite
direction and so often want to get to
the Book of Jonah I'm just like okay
Lord show me in my life where I'm like
Jonah where even though you have called
me by name to speak your word where am i
running from you and specifically that's
what we're going to talk about this
moring so over the next four weeks we're
going to look at the Book of Jonah so
specifically each week we'll go through
a chapter and so this week what's
interesting is my chapter one is
actually called a prophet runs from God
which sounds so strange when you think
of it because a prophet is called by God
to tell a group of people what is on
God's heart for them and so let me
reflect a message the message the mere
fact that this man Jonah who is a
prophet of God runs from God this it
seems strange so why don't we read the
passage and then so even now we're going
to ask the Lord to reveal to us what he
wants to talk about as you read the
passage and you can do the same when
you're at home as you're reading along
with us through Jonah one I am reading
from the new
version and so lord reveal your truth
says as we read your word amen the Lord
spoke his word to Jenna son of a Matai
get up go to the great city of Nineveh
and preach against it because I see the
evil things they do but Jonah got up to
run away from the Lord by going Tarshish
oh that's difficult word to say well he
went to the city of Joppa where he found
a ship that was going to the city of
Tarsus Jonah paid for the trip and went
to board planning to go to tasha's
Tarshish to run away from the Lord but
the Lord sent a great wind on the sea
which made the sea so stormy that the
ship was in danger of breaking apart the
sailors were afraid and each man cried
to his own God they began throwing the
cargo from the ship into the sea to make
the ship lighter but Jonah had gone down
far inside the ship to lie down and he
fell fast asleep the captain of the ship
came and said why are you sleeping get
up and go pray to your God maybe your
God will pay attention to us and we
won't die then the men said to each
other let's throw lots to see who causes
this trouble to happen to us when they
threw lots the lot showed that the
trouble had happened because of Jonah
then they said to him tell us who caused
our trouble what's your job where do you
come from what is your country who are
your people then Jonah said to them I am
a Hebrew I fear the Lord the God of
heaven who made the sea and the land the
men were very afraid and they asked
Jonah what terrible thing did you do
they knew he was running away from the
Lord because he had told them since the
wind and the waves in the sea were
becoming much stronger they said to him
what should we do to make the sea calm
down for us Jonah said to them pick me
up and throw me into the sea and then it
will calm down I know it is my fault
that this great storm has come on come
on you instead the men tried to roll the
ship back to land but they could not
because the sea was becoming more stormy
so the men cried out to the lord lord
please don't let us die because of this
man's life please
please don't think we are guilty of
killing an innocent person Lord you have
caused all this to happen you wanted it
this way so they picked up Jonah and
threw him into the sea and the sea
became calm then they began to fear the
Lord very much they offered a sacrifice
to the Lord and made promises to him the
Lord caused a big fish to swallow Jonah
and Jonas was inside the fish three days
and three nights there you have it there
you have it so Jonah received the word
from God saying that he should go to
Nineveh but he had issue with that and
it doesn't necessarily say why Jonah
didn't want to go to Nineveh it just
says that he arose and fled and left
what gets me about that is that he being
a prophet he knew he was a prophet so he
should have known the character of God
and he ought he says even when the
Sailor said you know who are you where'd
you come and he's like and I fear the
Lord God if he feared the Lord God and
knew that he could see everything and
everything was in his control I just
don't understand how he could reconcile
and his own mine that fleeing was a good
idea or that he would get away so I find
that kind of interesting right off the
get-go yeah we'll see I be part of the
problem with Jonah is he didn't like his
assignment okay he didn't want to go to
Nineveh Nineveh was the capital city of
Assyria and a Syria was a country that
continually came up against Israel and
they were violent but very violent like
very violent yeah we'll just say very
violent will let you google it because
that way this Today Show can remain
g-rated um and so what happened is Jonah
got the assignment of go to Nineveh he
was like these guys are mean like these
guys are extremely violent they've risen
up
against us before they are enemies Lord
why are you calling me to go to my enemy
which has so many implications when you
actually if we you know we could talk a
whole show on what happens when God
calls you to go and speak to someone you
don't like mm-hmm and so Jonah's like
and we get into this in the later
chapters but Jonah and as we said he
knows who God is but maybe this seemed
out of character for him for his
perception of God maybe he saw God as a
God who is just and brings judgment on
people who are wicked which he does but
he wasn't seeing him as the merciful God
that he is where God wasn't acting the
way Jonah wanted God to act yeah oh oh
that's messy yeah and so yeah Jonah just
yeah that is a great question what makes
us think that we can run from God mm-hmm
what and I think sometimes we dabble in
sin like maybe a young couple who's
dating think they don't talk ahead of
time of how far is too far or if I claim
each other yeah we love each other so
God will bless us in our sin because we
love each other we're planning to get
married so it doesn't really matter that
we are not married yet we can go ahead
and have sex before we get married but
it's okay right so they think they can
actually hide their son or their sin is
acceptable and they won't receive
punishment because of that and so when
you say you know what makes us or want
me to think he could flee from God I
think we do we try it all the time we
try to hide things from God or we try to
oh I'll do that later this isn't really
that bad no like mmm and maybe it's
because you know we don't physically see
the presence of God with us right so
that accountability is not there but we
have the Holy Spirit now who's supposed
to bear witness that we are children of
God and that we're supposed to act in a
way that pleases him but there's not
physical presence there and that's why
it's so easy once you start to let
little things into your life like those
little foxes we talked about a couple
episodes ago that they just come in and
start you know pulling you away yes that
is some slippery slope thing and so we
have to be so careful that we don't let
the foxes and you don't take the little
nibble of the bait mm-hmm and think that
all this is okay something interesting
you know when thinking about Jonah and
why he didn't want to go to Nineveh
because they were enemies of the
Israelites I wonder if he felt like this
is righteous anger okay like when when
when you see an injustice like the
Holocaust it makes you angry as it
should you know when Jesus saw the
people buying and selling in the temple
it made him angry because it was not
right and I think we're supposed to get
upset at things that are wrong like
violence against people you know yeah
like things like the Holocaust but he
was probably thinking no this this can't
be right mate but he knew it was a
message from God at the same time yes so
I kind of can sympathize with him there
why he would wrestle with that um like
the showing mercy yeah it's I'm off the
hook yes yes Corrie ten Boom tells a
story about the height ok so the book is
the hiding place and you can buy it at
amazon in a thong on amazon com ca ca it
anyways it's the story of a young
Christian family in Holland who hid Jews
and wings of the Germans something they
ended up being going to concentration
camp and her sister ended up dying I
know this is major spoiler alert it's
still well worth the read totally
anyways years later Corey is at a church
speaking she's out of the concentration
camp out of the concentration camp
at a church speaking about how God I had
just what she learned from this whole
experience and God was actually using
her right for teach people about
reconciliation and forgiveness yeah and
whatever and this man stands up and
comes forward and she recognizes him oh
yeah as one of the German guards at the
concentration camp that she and her
sister at yeah and he reaches out her
stand and he said Frau Fraulein do you
remember me I think is what he said and
and she knew in her heart that God was
asking her to forgive him but it was
hard for her to do because how could
hear was here was a man in front of her
who she had seen just so much atrocity
come from him and others like him but
she knew that she said it her arms are
like lead like she she almost could not
extend her hand and forgiveness because
it's like how could she you know and
that's where I think the juxtaposition
of the spiritual realm and the physical
realm come head-to-head once that when
things like that happen where God is
asking us to do something that's so
outside of ourselves so counterintuitive
like forgive someone who's just killed
your family and yet she prayed and asked
God to give her the strength and when
she said that she put her hand in his to
extend for again she said it was like a
flood of peace and love that came over
her so she didn't she could have turned
and ran she could have said no but she
would have missed out on that blessing
from God and so this is I think this is
what Jonah is struggling with and like
these are our enemies and you want me to
tell them about you like and so and so
he runs and he gets on the ship and a
storm happened so the Lord is not
letting him off the hook yeah I'm very
interesting because I think in his
hoping that he got on the boat that he
literally would God would release him I
honestly think
he felt that God would release him from
the call hmm and it's interesting
because as we read in the chapter God
did not let him off the hook yeah in
fact he pursued him um and i love that
the means by which God pursued him like
he like a storm like a storm and we
often think vote well why would God use
a storm he's putting other people's
lives in danger right because there's
these sailors on the ship and they're
like there's people's other people's
lives at stake so that is an interesting
thing to think about to jen is when we
make a decision we make a wrong decision
we're not the only ones affected I
remember my dad saying to me and like we
I didn't become a Christian till I was
in my teens but after that and then my
family came to Christ right he would say
carry you don't send in a vacuum like
when you thin you're not the only one
affected and here these sailors that
their life was in danger their lives
were spared but interesting to that
first he ran from the call yes and then
he runs from the storm because it says
yes um but Jonah had gone down into the
lowest parts of the ship had laid down
and was fast asleep he was able to just
tune it out and go to sleep and I wonder
if how do you deal with conflict or when
when you know sin is in your life that
you need to deal with do you find that
you're quick to deal with it do you find
that you're the first one to go to the
person who has hurt you I know people
say well it depends on what it is
granted but I wonder how you deal with
that hey Jen we were talking about that
this morning and I said this is funny
because when I was a kid and my mom told
me this if I got upset or was offended
or was in trouble I would go to my room
and go right to sleep it was lighter say
it was like escapism for me right you
know it wasn't that I didn't care about
it it was that I did care but I didn't
want to deal with it
so sleeping was a way of not thinking
about it you know some people turn to
drugs or whatever right but I went to
bed right and we laugh cuz sometimes
I'll just say oh I need a drink right
need a drink of water but so often
people will say you know I need a glass
of alcohol or wine and and everything
will just be perfectly fine and I I've
had a friend that when she when troubles
would come up in her home she would
actually pack a bag and leave yeah she'd
get in the car and drive away and it was
like um if I'm gonna be here when you
get back the problem will always be
there when you get back and I think when
obviously you know Jonah went and you
tried to sleep it off well or he just
figured I'm gonna die in my sleep cuz he
was running from God so whether I get
away to a far-off country or I die I
will be released from what he I like I I
feel like he's saying I would rather die
then do what God is calling me to do
there's no way I want him to have mercy
on those Ninevites when he says that
later on and we'll get to that in
chapter 4 yeah he'd rather be dead so
here he is he's choosing to abdicate
everything and by going down and having
a sleep and and I'm learning um that
when the spirit actually wants you to do
something there will be a stirring and
it feels like you can't do anything else
like it just it's in your mind it's in
the snow or part of your body it's just
like you cannot get it out of your head
so either you have to go to that person
and and deal with it or you know turn to
God and repent and say I'm sorry but
when the Spirit is really at work well
you do have a choice you can drown out
the spirit which is what Jonah tried to
do and we do it so often by making
ourselves busy by using some sort of
narcotic of some form I'll take a
sleeping pill hmm you know because
sometimes the Lord gets this when we
sleep right I'll just take a sleeping
pill and I'll be fine i'll get up
tomorrow we've busy up her schedule
if I can just be busy enough I won't
have time to do what God asks me to do
mommy and we do that we get busy so we
don't have to actually listen to God and
do these collars yeah I won't have to
call that family member and talk about
this I won't have to call my boss and
tell them you know I actually did I made
this mistake again yeah I mean well I
can share a story after but anyways so
it's easy to avoid things it is so easy
and we've even done this between us I
like okay if I just don't say anything
and then Kari has always said to me
Jennifer your face tells me this do you
wear your heart on your sleeve too I
don't know and it's like shoots yeah and
I'm like yeah or are you try and cover
it up people try try and cut it up so i
will share story okay so i had just
started my nursing career are not too
far in anyways anyways I i made a
medication error and felt terrible about
it and as soon as I did it the first
thing that came to my mind and I was
shocked I was like how am I going to
cover this up how how what do I need to
do and I'm embarrassed to say that but
that's what first thought came to my
head and I did deal with it
appropriately after but immediately I
thought and I didn't want to tell my
manager and I didn't want to tell the
patient and I was so embarrassed I
didn't want to tell my colleagues and it
all it was fine it was a minor error
thank you God I told the patient I
documented it I filled out the paperwork
and I had to call my manager and tell
them what happened
and of course it goes to your mind like
what if this was something the other
drug and I gave killed up early oh my
goodness but I immediately thought like
how can I run from this you know you
know what I'll go into a different
profession I you know I'm gonna have to
meet yeah I felt so bad but and it
happens but that was my first thought
how can I get out of this I got no God
like I don't want to run that is so off
my first responses and how can I get out
of this yeah rather than taking
responsibility Oh totally and so there
he is in the bottom of the ship and
everything's getting worse and worse and
worse and so the captain comes down and
shakes him he's like booty to cry out to
God you fool yes and I love the fact
that he's like get up and pray to your
God maybe your God will pay attention to
us and we won't die which is like haha
it is our it was Jonah's god that was
allowing this to happen or causing this
to happen depending on how you perceive
how God works and so there he is and
Jonah comes up and it like okay let's
throw loss to see who it is so explain
what lot Sarge n K people no lots it's
like throwing the dice yes I like
pulling the short straw so you know if
there was 20 of them on board so all in
would be the same lengthy straws but one
of them would be short yeah basically
like you pull one you pull one right and
like Jonah got the short straw yeah and
they were using that Lots almost as like
an opportunity for God to show them
without having their hand involved yeah
right yeah Kenneth yeah so anyway he got
the short straw he got the short straw
and then they said to him tell us who
caused our trouble what's your job and
he goes ahead and says I'm a Hebrew I
feared the Lord and the men were afraid
what did you do but it says in verse 10
they already knew that he was fleeing
from God yeah they knew he told them hey
guys I'm running away can I
come along very interesting but then
once he says it's me you're gonna have
to I you're gonna have to throw me in
the sea even then he doesn't take
ownership and repent you know or throw
himself in he puts the onus on them yes
to throw him in yes yes actually that is
interesting he is he doesn't jump he
doesn't walk the plank no he's not
taking any responsibility he does like
he's totally abdicating everything I'm
not gonna listen to God and I'm
certainly not going to take
responsibility for the fact that I'm not
listening to God and he wasn't even
gonna take his own life yeah they're
gonna have someone else throw them in
yeah yes so I think Jonah is simply
trying to avoid at all costs what God is
calling him to do mm-hmm like at all
costs and often I've heard people who
feel called into the ministry or to go
on a missions trip and they know God is
asking because it just keeps coming to
mind they read scripture and it pops off
the page they have conversations with
people and they literally know that God
is calling them into the ministry
because the topic keeps coming up and
some people say oh how do you know if
God is speaking to you calling to maybe
that's something we can do an episode on
at another time but that's a good way of
describing part of it Jen it just keeps
coming up men's um and they actually
like hush-hush it like they they know
God is calling and they hush-hush it and
they just keep going just like Jonah
like God is calling God is calling God
is calling God is calling and I think
Jonah's like I know you're calling and
they don't care yeah and I don't care
and so when he finally said like what
down for us he's like pick me up throw
me in and the men try to find another
way and then finally said we don't want
to be held responsible because Jonah was
John was putting all of this on them and
being a decision mm-hmm and they had
done absolutely
nothing wrong and yet now they were
responsible for cleaning up Jonah's mess
mm-hmm ha yeah messy yeah and then after
they throw them in God and His mercy
sends the fish to swallow him yeah and
then the sea calms and that it's a
witness to those men at that time and
says that they turned to God and offered
sacrifices to him and then they feared
God so interesting how that kind of
turned around in their favor essentially
it was a mercy of God that he allowed
them to see his grace and his power yes
and also that Jonah was swallowed in his
mercy and you know what I'm thinking
about because we're talking about how
God is merciful merciful to those that
we don't like or our enemies or whatnot
I'm wondering about the men on the boat
because even through Jonah's
disobedience men came to know the Lord
cap they they repented they fell and
they worshiped God because it was like
well he really is God I guess that
challenges me to think okay even in my
sin and disobedience God can still use
me to reach people not that we're
encouraging you to be there right away
and run away but in the process of
making things right because they said
they they prayed and said please don't
like it's almost at that point they
realized that Jonah's God was God
Almighty greater than their gods because
their gods weren't doing anything mm-hmm
so they prayed would you release us from
the penalty of throwing him in and they
came to know the Lord mm-hmm and so I
guess part of my prayer would be God in
spite of who I am would people come to
know me but not would come people come
to know you huh no Mike yeah and that's
challenging like it reminds me that we
don't have to be perfect that even when
we sin God can you know cuz it says he
works all things together yeah yeah and
in Romans it says well should we send
more so that grace should increase by no
means no Jesus came to wipe away our sin
and so we live through his power
yes now so a good way to get swallowed
swallowed up is by running away from God
and literally we're going to get into
this next week is when we allow
ourselves to be swallowed by our sin or
swallowed up when we run from God mm-hmm
when we don't face our move on Facebook
God is calling us when we don't face
conflict head-on when we run from the
voice of God then we ended up end up
being swallowed whole and it can
literally feel like you're trapped
you're trapped there's nowhere else to
go yeah and you know maybe you're
experiencing some conflict now or
something that you need to address and
you've been running from it but don't
let this moment pass in Acts it says
that turn to God and repent that times
of me of refreshing might come from the
Lord and God says you can turn to him
cast your cares on him invite him into
the situation and watch him do amazing
things we've both seen it in our lives
and he can transform relationships he
can pick you up out of the pit that
you're in he can help you in school he
can help you in your job he can he can
help you have a new perspective on what
you're dealing with and to start today
because his mercies are new every single
day so don't don't run from even facing
God today yeah like turn to him right
now wherever you are turn to him ah
whether you don't know him or you do
know him but you know you need to make
something right yeah but with the Lord
like today's the day day is the day and
well why don't we pray on that note that
10 I agree all right you go ahead lord I
am so glad that your mercies are new
every single day even now would you
forgive me for those times where I've
heard your voice and turned away or
where I have sinned and turned away from
your voice telling me to come back and
lord I ask in your name that you would
meet all of our viewers that are
watching right now wherever they are and
through the the gentleness of your Holy
Spirit that you would just
let them know how much you love them and
your desire to be with them in
relationship and that there is nothing
that can separate them from you there is
no sin that is too big that that is so
insurmountable that they cannot turn to
you so Lord would you draw near to our
viewers today encourage them today
helping to turn to you and lord help
them to listen to your voice and respond
I ask this in the name of Jesus for the
power of the Holy Spirit amen amen we
want to thank you for watching and thank
you to category 5 for hosting the show
and to Robbie Ferguson our director and
producer and thank you also to eco
alkalines they are the batteries that
power our camera and the other equipment
that we use here and we also want to
thank our new partner a new partner
which is family christian stores there
an online bookstore so you can get
cushion music and books through this
website and all the proceeds 100% a
hundred percent of the proceeds go to
supporting now one of the lines i said
was widows and orphans so they go to
support ministries that support widows
and orphans so I'm like very cool so go
online check them out through our
website which is new everyday TV you can
also follow us on stitcher so make sure
you check out our facebook page and our
website new everyday TV and we look
forward to seeing you next week same
place maybe the same time
okay bye
you
