hello today um on the pixel shadow I am
going to be filling in for mangafox 70 I
am more timer and mangle Fox 70 is sick
but she's still in the game stick around
this is it gonna be a great show welcome
to the pixel shadow I am Mortimer I am
going to be filling in for mangafox 70
cuz she is sick she had to stay home but
she is still in the game and we are
going to be looking at some things like
parkour and builds that mangafox 70
hasn't shown off yet we are going to be
using some meskin to build some
machinery we are going to be showing off
this house made by piston which is my
other account and i like to use lava
underneath the floors because it looks
cool
this is the downstairs I tried to make
it look like it was inside of the ground
and I haven't made much but the lava
keeps leaking into this floor um but I
think I might have fixed that and I am
going to be making another floor which
the whole floor is going to be made out
of lava this is just don't look out onto
a big flat land that I found and we are
going to be looking at some park course
that mangled Fox suddenly hasn't done
and I like building my houses when you
can jump instead of just being right
over your head and I think my kitty fell
into the lava wrong way so you get
upstairs so I'm gonna show you my house
it is very far away though very so I'm
gonna go to this cottage which was also
made by me inside it is really dark
because I accidentally turned off the
lighting system and that means my
lighting system doesn't really work
anymore because I broke it sort of one
open and I'll show you a lot about it so
this is blackouts cottage that he built
in my area what
have you been doing this a farm ah stop
Chuck die ha the stonework kiddies
oh i should i just went around in a
circle how do i get into this place oh
yeah here's one of my entrance is to my
house it leads to this which is my porch
and inside is just my upstairs and then
there's another porch but I'm not done
yet and this is how you get my train
that leads to my snow house and this is
just a storage room or something I don't
know what it is and over here is the
stairs that go up to my higher ports and
it is right over top of the other parts
that I just show you are you a notebook
well and I really would like to show you
what my snow house looks like it is
amazing need to grab a cart do I have
one no
oh this one was this year I'm gonna go
on this one so this leads to my snow
mansion I just called it slow house
because I didn't know that it was going
to become a mansion I'm on the wrong
really so that is blackouts house
and we both know Jai model roller
coaster
down the way
and this is my house
this is just gonna go to
on it protected area because I built
this when I was pissed and so i had to
find unprotected area which is this of a
bedroom why is this here oh and this
leaves up upstairs which i'm not done
what's this for oh there's a camp out
and this leads to downstairs so yeah
actually have to go down to make it
upstairs which is cool it was a good
idea I don't know where this leads to
this place is not finished yet what
let's go a very weird and son go
and watch out you don't want to fall
down okay so this is a room that I
wanted to go into because it has my
teleporter that leads to all my stuff
and I have more stuff than this so I'm
going to go to the door of my first
build because that's the closest to
where I'm going ews device following me
so just follow this road which has been
briefed oh this I know this is my
mansion I'm asked this part up because
if part of my mansion is flooded so
flooded and all this
I'm going to
go over here I synced
that right
no oh it's over here somewhere I
remember it being over here where you go
but someone you're here or something my
even at the right place Oh
however I see that place i just go all
the way over here oh oh my parkour is
over here yeah here it is so it has a
lot of mechanics I might have to fix
some of them cuz I'll like mechanics are
hard I'll tell you what ones I need to
fix this is just some type of story that
I made so you have to jump when you
press this lever the door will open this
is really hard to build here you'll have
to guess what wait yeah that's right you
need to guess which button to press I'm
going to press this one ah that's what
that button does it just throws you off
and this is spun does the same thing but
and this button opens up that place
that's cool Wow people will be able to
cheat by than that off and you jump here
some amazing this is here oh is that
supposed to be here I don't know
well this isn't so you go up here press
this button and it will remove these I
think these are not see it move them the
next button is really cool I let's get
rid of this the next button when you
press it it will make stairs like that
and then you can go up the stairs around
here here this build was really hard to
build mobile so then you go in here this
button will make that so that you can
make it i'll show you how you have to do
that oh how did I fall I thought okay
I'll just so you'll jump to here then
right here is pretty easy you just have
to do this oops and keep going and
unless that or else that will happen
then you press that so that you can help
us there's something wrong with this
yeah now this isn't supposed to be here
somehow it keeps doing that well that's
probably bumblebee and then here it will
take away those
and then you keep on going nuts and so I
am going to build
simple house and it's going to be over
water just because it would be cool and
I like building above this overall
winner a lot but it's really hard
especially when you make downstairs it's
gonna be pretty much just going to be a
sensible house
you can go much better health offense
inland
it's going to be two blocks hi there are
a lot of people in my video I didn't
think that many people would come over
to me so I'm gonna make a lighting
system so i am gonna take what block I
need one of these blocks and I do not
need a cart I can take one of these
blocks well I'm not going to do that yet
if I'm going to make a one-block
lighting system like that so I'm going
to put that there that there I need a
piston sticky one and I have one so i
don't need to search for one no you tube
to look this way
now i'm going to good obviously no one
knows what I'm doing because the many
people here know how to build this and
so this is let your only what I wanted
to build now I'm going to just finish
off this part and obviously I make a
store
they're so I am gonna get a lever if I
have one yeah I do need Anand hey wats
stop destroying this i'm going to show
you how I'm gonna protect this
everything is stuff
there now no one can vote here you can
mangle Fox 70 is griefing wowzers haha
you shall never breathe again oh no go
away I don't need to see you oh no oh I
thought I made it not be protected
anymore so I have Mexican right here I'm
going to place the lover right about
here now hopefully no one uses it I
always do this so this lover will turn
the light
well that's just going to be so that's
just going to be her girls how does this
go see what block so I prize that powers
out as well and when you press this it
should think this go like yep then when
you undress it go like that oh do not be
oh I know I it's because I have to power
the other one first
I'm think that's what happened to miss
my cottage
now this will do the same thing will
power up this now I can make a lover
here not connected it work
it worked see now with the roof is
patched up then when I close it it still
has this block and when i press this mix
that so that's one thing that you could
build I actually learned this from a
Minecraft book but I didn't copy all of
it cuz in mind test you don't have stuff
like redstone repeaters so it's a little
bit different mmm so that's my kind of
thing what are people doing I stopped
doing it
hey turn this one looks the best cuz
spin w rats
so that's so awesome lighting system
we're giving a different way thanks for
watching a pixel shadow episode i hope
you enjoyed it if i am able to make
another video i can show you a lot of my
other via builds goodbye
