so let's just get in here and just take
a quick look now I have not installed
this I'm just using it on a USB flash
drive and this is one of the nice things
about Linux is that you can just buy a
16 gig flash drive and install Linux to
it and you can just boot it up try it
out even if even without wiping windows
you can try it and see if you like it
so that's what we're doing tonight so
this is LMDE and it has the branding of
linux mint it just looks like it and
it's version 3 a ka Cindy and it's
pretty zippy even from my cheap little
USB flash drive and it looks sleek so
this is the operating system so you
think in terms of Microsoft Windows or
Mac OS well this is a replacement for
that
this is LMDE so let's get in under the
hood right out of the box we've got GNU
image manipulation program super ya what
does that look like it's 2.8 so it's an
older version but hey you can always
just upgrade that yeah well you can and
the the difference here is that we're
using LMDE which is based on Debian
versus Linux Mint which is based on
Ubuntu so boon two's version supports
PPAs okay more easily get those more
current things if you use a PPA
repository
this is Debian based right so you're
limited to what is available in the
Debian repositories or you can find a
dpk the Deb file from you can you can
install it from source so it's it's a
little bit of a different way to do it
just as far as that goes but it comes
with it 2.8 is not obsolete by any
stretch but 2.10 would blow your mind
what do we got firefox web-browser we're
not talking like iceweasel or anything
like this is the real deal
youtube.com does YouTube work out of the
box that's my question Sasha that's a
good test let's go to category 5 TV and
let's go there
all right right out of the box there she
goes
oh that's live whoa that's trippy that's
weird I clicked on the live video the
Internet it's a Co saladillo alright so
YouTube works right out of the box and
it's zippy a guy's like this is pretty
darn good and I'm just I'm literally
just booting from a USB flash drive I
have to install it you'll notice that on
my desktop I've got an install Linux
Mint button which if I've decided hey
this is the one I can get rockin on it
what else does it come with okay so
Internet we've got hex chat cool
Thunderbird is for email it's like an
Outlook Express kind of thing but it has
plug-in extensions and add-ons so you're
able to take it one step further at
calendaring and things like that however
it does not support things like Zimbra
there's no Zimbra connector for
Thunderbird which I'm really
disappointed in the Zimbra development
team for not having proper support for
Zimbra connector on linux very
disappointed in you folks we need to see
evolution support it but it's still an
email client if you've got Gmail or
whatever you can use that transmission
is four bit torrents cool it comes with
it
Microsoft Office clone called
LibreOffice there it is Sasha it comes
with it every box cool yeah let's go
into calc because calc is like the Excel
clone if you will I hate to use the word
clone but it kind of is I mean it opens
and saves to excel format right with the
same formula and it is in all essences
Excel what do you see on your screen I
mean it that's what it write like to me
and that's how it operates I mean it
uses the same some equations and
formulas and everything else that's calc
and there's also writer which is like
Microsoft Word and I only say that
because if you're coming from Microsoft
Windows I want you to know that there's
an alternative that is free like keep
that in mind this entire operating
system including all the software that
I'm looking at right now is totally free
free free you can fold it underline it
oh my goodness what can't you do
that's good I want it to be very clear
free free as in dollars free as in beers
no free beer is it they will give you
free beer won't ya they won't they
probably won't but understand that when
something is free you didn't have to pay
for it then you can afford to get your
own reason beer free as in also the
freedom exactly what I should say
because you are free to share it if you
love it that's true - Sasha give it to
your family members and everything else
you're free to share it ok moving along
the list here real quick just a rundown
I love the way it looks
Sasha I've got to be honest it looks
good it's intuitive it looks user
friendly it looks good I don't see
anything out of the box that I dislike
what are all these icons okay Firefox
these look like favourites software
manager what's that that's gonna be just
the basic manager I would prefer to use
synaptic for sure does it come with it
it does so I can just run synaptic
package manager' that's the one I prefer
that's how you install programs on Linux
one great package managers cool so with
things missing you can just search for
it and add it with this do the video
editing you wanted to do like this it's
possible I mean because DaVinci Resolve
is available for Linux it's not Linux's
problem that we need software that is
good enough God and DaVinci Resolve I
only mentioned because they're probably
the closest to a proper video editor
right now on Linux so that's probably
where I'm going to start going one thing
that I do want to know is what we see
when we go mint meta codecs so this is a
package that doesn't come pre-installed
and it adds all the packages required
for multimedia support in Linux Mint so
if you want to be able to play videos if
you want to be able to play proprietary
file formats mark that for installation
same mark
and then apply and what that's gonna do
is it's going to download those meta
things codex and everything else and
it's going to install them on your
computer for you on linux mint or LMDE
in this case right really quickly really
easily it says it's only going to take
28 seconds to be able to get that
support incredible so I'm kind of
impressed right now if you haven't
looked at LMDE yet I think it's worth
giving it a chance at least to look at
it if you're new to Linux I would I
would recommend that you instead look at
linux mint if you're interested in the
look of this and the feel of this reason
i say that is because it's more polished
it's even more polished it's got a much
bigger community and it is based on a
boon - which is a little more user
friendly when it comes to things like
setting up graphic drivers and stuff
like that when you say a bigger
community like if you had it like say I
have it on my laptop yeah now I default
a lot of my questions to you right you
are my community where do I get the
answers I go to the forum site ranked
okay so that's what the community is
right so if I were if I didn't know you
and I was here and I had a question I
would just I would go to a forum and
that forum would have the answer
absolutely
that okay and if not you asked the
community and they get back to you and
okay that's it's again that community
feel of Linux where hey you just ask
other users you you've got me and you
ask me a lot right and that's cool but
you may want to get into the forms and
try that out too right and if you're
watching you can also ask you just say
you know it's not just me not just me
live at category 5 TV of course and
Garbi yes of course I would I would go
to the chat room for sure absolutely
yeah we and that again comes back to
community category 5 has a great
community and we've got a lot of Linux
users as well random funny chatroom
thing I don't I don't typically I can't
typically through the week go into the
chatroom when we're not live but I have
called work I know life I have gone into
the chat room at times and I liked it
was like the first time I actually
realized that it still exists outside of
the
time we're here okay my mind was like
blown I was so happy my heart exploded I
was like okay good if I've ever
questioned this is where I'll be a to go
check out Linux Mint or LM de two
different pieces of software Linux Mint
being based on Ubuntu LMDE being based
on Debian get them at Linux Mint dot-com
[Music]
[Applause]
