save the trees more ePaper I know we do
have a question from no one
oh yeah quotation that's their name from
someone named no one that's right so no
one wants to know and this is about the
boogie board sink that we covered you a
month ago
ish yeah I love that thing that's the
thing that you're using them yeah yeah
yes like a ePaper speaking of e paper he
paper tablet that saves via bluetooth or
USB connect yes to an app yes that's
love it yeah so the question is does the
boogie board sync app work on Raspberry
Pi so first off if you want to know what
we're talking about go to cat v dot TV /
e paper so we covered this device about
a month ago and it came as a result of
you guys looking at some a paper a
couple weeks prior yeah love it right
but my question was does it save and can
i sync it up no don't make such a thing
Jeff in the next week he's like I bought
this school and I need it I think it's
amazing so I've been using this
consistently away when I use it for when
I'm doing negotiations I'm using it for
meetings like all the time I'm using it
I would love it just you know not to
digress or anything or sidestep but for
the kids to draw on and do sherwin stuff
like that because they can save it wipe
it wipe it yep there's no paper they get
stacks of paper mom and dad you know
what I'm talking about and then you got
to go through and recycle it and it's
heartbreaking to do so but you've got to
do it you got to do it without the kids
knowing so it's like 11 o'clock at night
and yes sorry kids so the reason I
wanted was to be able to sit like to
save my notes and sync them up and you
know compile them so I'll use like PDF
and all because they're all safe I'll
put them all into one file exactly yeah
so it's wonderful that way so this
question relates to how it syncs up and
how you get those files and so the
question doesn't work with Raspberry Pi
the show
is yes what it does No so I haven't know
I personally have not synced it up to
the Raspberry Pi but on the website my
boogie board comm say for the sink nine
point seven it says which computer
operating systems are compatible with
the boogie board sink the boogie board
sink is compatible with any operating
system that recognizes a USB storage
device the VVC software is compatible
with Mac OS X 10.8 and I solve oh wait
the X stands for 10 yeah but so s X 10.8
I'm just I'm reading over OS x yeah hey
yes
Windows Vista 7 and 8 and then they're
saying if you're using Windows 10 please
contact support now doesn't mention
Linux there but it does so it shows up
as a mass storage device when you plug
it in you have file system access to the
PDF yes that's correct
brilliant yeah now the one feature that
will not work with the Raspberry Pi you
tell is remember how I showed you
there's a button on the little pen
yeah so with that button you can use
your boogie board sync to do like live
lives on like a PowerPoint projector up
on a screen so that will not work with
the Raspberry Pi but as far as being
able to sync it and transfer your files
absolutely it will work so you can blue
through the device you can email them
then to yourself or you could just use
the cable connected via USB so there you
go no one who's actually someone it does
work on the Raspberry Pi ok and to take
that one step further there are actual
projects in development third-party
projects that allow the boogie board
sync to communicate with Linux because
remember the Raspberry Pi is Linux at it
right right right so the Raspberry Pi 3
for example has built-in bluetooth and
it has 4 USB to ports right so you can
connect it by USB or you can connect it
by bluetooth but because the app is not
natively supported what can you possibly
do other than as you say accessing it as
an external hard drive kind of setup
right but check this out so if you do a
quick search on Google for boogie-board
sync Linux because remember Raspberry Pi
is powered by Linux you're gonna install
like raspbian first one that comes up is
called boogie sync tablet introduction
this is an implementation of the user
space driver for using the boogie board
sync as a
tablet under Linux blows away your
lottery that some of the features
doesn't work carrying on it says there
are two apps one is for USB input and
one for Bluetooth that's awesome it uses
PI USB Pi Blues to interface with the
device and the you input system via the
EU dev for Python I love it so it
generates input signals directly over
that connection and it warns that it is
still in the early days however it is
operational and it's available that's
the first Google result for what was my
search what was your search boogie-board
sync linux x so we know that you know
these are it's on github it's an open
source project there are other projects
as well there's one called mobile read
for boogie board there's sync for boogie
board
I'm just looking through the the results
here on Google whatever search engine
you're using so that's one for you
anyway so good to know that that's the
nature of open source and how things get
work there you go
and it's pretty cheap on Amazon it's a
waste to end up something I own like I I
can't like I think we all need one of it
I can't stop thinking about it so it
said well the you're not really
replacing the paper yes we are legit you
are about it if we if all three of us
have this boogie board sync hundreds of
dollars cheaper than a tablet yeah like
a say an iPad or like a Samsung Galaxy
Tab or something like that and do away
with this every week yeah well see
here's what I love about it so when I'm
doing negotiations for contracts a lot
of our proposals are back and forth
digitally so that you know when you've
got an entire page of language instead I
have it - like retype it yeah somebody
can you know you take the digital file
you make your edits and you send it back
yes so I can bargain digitally that way
even though we're in the room so with my
notes I actually don't have to have a
binder or any paper with me anymore it's
amazing and it's so much so that I've
been at the table and I've been stopped
in the middle of a presentation as I was
going what is that
yeah and I explained it to them I show
them he show you and I go here and I
draw a smiley face i sink it I email it
to them they pull up the phone there's a
PDF of the smiley face and they're like
I need that and I go let me get you the
link so if I've got DV / E paper right
that's right yes so people have been
buying it just simply by seeing me use
it it's our best thing I've ever seen
it's really cool but I thought the best
thing I've ever seen but I do like
Dustin I do like it a lot that's the
biggie books coming soon to Linux
[Music]
[Applause]
