hi everyone and welcome to new every day
my name is Kari my name is Jen and on
today's show we are in part two of it's
not about you so come back right after
this
[Music]
everyone thanks so much for tuning back
into new every day and we are in part
two of a message called
it's not about you hmm and we focused on
selfishness last week and how the root
of selfishness is pride when you want
something for yourself and it's all
about me and you made reference of when
we're planning our summer or planning
events in the future it's usually self
focused yes I'm totally guilty of that
just last night I was thinking what am I
gonna get to go camping I need to plan
that I'm gonna get to go camping would
yes it's good to plan exciting thing yes
but it should be exciting because it's
for other people so when we turn our
hearts towards God and towards others it
leads to a more fulfilling life yes and
I just want to share a quote that I
found by Helen Keller so for those of
you don't know Helen Keller was the
woman who was born deaf and blind and
actually no I listened to her book what
she she was born fully hearing and see
yes what happened and then she a disease
came yes I know so she had for her first
year of her life she was completely
hearing and seeing and then a disease I
can't remember what it was but that is
what meningitis may be or I know a
friend of mine had chickenpox and caused
her to be deaf
so I know cuz I always thought she was
born that way too and it's late I
thought that I know thank you you're
welcome
amazing so Helen Keller who is not born
definitely know I'm I want to suck the
truth anyway
she gave this quote that life is an
exciting business and most exciting when
it was it is lived for others I love
that she said that because for someone
who has had tasted it's yes essentially
yes essentially heard the goodness of
life and the wonderful colors and all
that we experience and then to have that
taking away that's even more powerful
yes so she had a lot to be selfish
inward focused about but the fact that
she's had that life is exciting when
it's lived for other people that's right
in line with the gospel yeah
and it's I've heard different trains of
thought of how how we become sanctified
which is a big Church word for becoming
more like Jesus some people would say
well you start doing in the heart will
follow so if you if you want to worship
God well then just come to a worship
service or turn on some music and start
singing and then like start the acting
part of it and the spirit will follow
right so at least position yourself in a
place to experience yes
I've also heard though the flipside that
says no we actually need a genuine heart
change before so I booked my mind I
think you need both I think sometimes
you just have to step out and the faith
will come but sometimes you do need the
heart change first fourth I want to say
for the fullness of the experience so
with the serving thing yeah I totally
agree yeah I tend to be most fulfilled
when I am serving a meeting with others
but I also know and this is the key
point I also know that we're also called
to times of solitude so that we can
spend time with God and be refreshed and
renewed and so but what what I struggle
with is the balance between spending
time with God how much is enough and
spending time with others how much is
enough especially for an introvert like
me and and I have no problem with with
people who say but you you need to get
away you need to rest and I totally
agree unless God puts an opportunity in
front of you and I've always been
challenged by the passage where Jesus
has just heard about the passing of John
the Baptist John the Baptist was
beheaded because of King Herod and so
Jesus has just learned about that so he
he
leaves his disciples gets in a boat and
goes across and so the people though the
crowds they say followed him and met him
on the other side but he just wanted to
be yeah alone with God so he was to go
the goal was to get in the boat and
going withdraw and the the crowds were
there and when he got out of the boat
the passage says and he had compassion
on them yeah and he healed their
diseases and then it goes on to say that
he taught them and he fed them there's
5,000 people like 5,000 men and that
passage has always been like but God I
don't think I could do that but Jesus
said that we should be able to that we
will be doing things that are even
greater than what he did but the key is
like that am I willing to surrender what
and this is what I think I need because
sometimes I'll say but I need this day
off so I can serve the Lord
but sometimes the Lord I think puts
opportunities to say but will you trust
me if I give you this will you trust me
with it that you will still get the rest
and refreshment that you need to
continue to serve me if if this is yes
this time yes because Jesus gave
everything for the it says you know for
the joy set before him he endured the
cross yes and it's like okay and the
cross is was his means of death like
that was a sign that he was surrendering
everything to God yeah when you look at
the the unselfishness of Christ like not
only was he on the cross dying and
suffering and dying for us to forgive
our sin when he was hanging on the cross
his mother and the disciple John were at
the foot of the cross and and he said to
his mother look here is your son and to
his disciple look here is your mother
yes
saying you now need to take her in and
look after her and it said from that
moment on this disciple took his mother
in as if she were his own mother like to
have
that ultimate view of what's really
important yeah I want to have that so
let's just think about that and we will
be back after these messages so see you
soon
Jeff Weston Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you you're terrible actor what this
where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website that's true how much
harddrive space do you have how many
email accounts how many domains can
point to it
well we've got an amazing deal for you
for a very limited time cat5 dot TV
slash dream host for just five dollars
and a bit of change per month you are
gonna get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name root so your own comm
dice to put that amazing website that
you've been working on on there if you
run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine
sign up cat v dot TV slash DreamHost
just don't put that on the papers on
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're gonna find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV slash DreamHost hey
everyone welcome back thank you so much
to our partners who make this Jim Ross
will go to our website new every day dot
TV check out our partners page and if
you need to do some shopping go on
Amazon through our website and that
helps to support this show and
thank you so much and thank you so much
for tuning in every week we really
appreciate it and again we just we love
doing this and I'm so appreciative this
conversation Jen about selfishness and
and how now we've turned our focus
towards Jesus the ultimate example of
being unselfish and when I think about
you know the the most quoted verse I
think in church John 3:16 for God so
loved the world that He gave His one and
only Son that whoever believes in Him
will not perish but have eternal life
the beginning of that verse said for God
so loved the world that He gave yes and
should be the love of God that then
compelled us to give but you were saying
that sometimes we don't have that
motivation in our heart but I truly
believe that God's love can transform
our heart and change our motives yes and
that's just it what are our motives
because the that passage where Jesus
talks about dying to self before it he
turns to the disciples and he says so
this is mark 18 starting in verse 27 he
turns to the cycles and say well who do
who do you who do people say I am yeah
well some say a prophet and some say you
know Elijah raised from the dead but who
do you say I am
he asks straight up and Peter says well
you are the Christ and he's like well
don't tell anyone because the nation of
Israel was waiting for the Messiah to
come and deliver them so that they could
have a renewed nation so for themselves
so they knew that or Jesus knew that if
word got out because of their own
motives that they would come and they
would hail him as king and that's not
why he came and so Peter actually is
coming alongside Jesus and Jesus
continues to teach saying but actually
the son of man needs to will suffer and
die and be crucified that's where Peter
was like no Lorin it will not be and
he's like get behind me Satan yes
because the motives were wrong like in
his mind
yes he was the Christ but the Christ to
come and redeem Israel not to redeem
humanity for God
and that's where I remember asking
myself first making the statement
sometimes we get confused about Jesus
like we just get confused because we're
like well what do you mean you're going
to die cuz it doesn't make sense that in
order to have full life or to give life
to someone else that you would have to
die that just doesn't make sense and yet
and the Bible is very clear and we
understand this unless a seed falls to
the ground and dies no life can come
from it yeah and and that passage for me
it was quite I want to say like elbow in
the side because it's like what are your
motives and it's crazy because that came
right after Peter said yeah so you're
the Messiah like I believe that you are
and then as soon as Jesus was talking
about something that was
counterintuitive to Peter it was like no
yes I mean but you don't like about it
too is that when when Peter asserted
that you are the Messiah Jesus said this
was not revealed to you by man but for
my father and have yes it was from God
right yes but then when Peters had know
that Lord you will not die bla bla bla
jesus said get behind me Satan so that
wasn't the real Peter no I like that
those motives are not coming from the
real us or who we were made to be right
and that's where Satan just can you know
drop those little word bombs in our head
to say hey that's not what you thought
yeah right and then the and he speaks
out of the selfishness and the wrong
motives and what's interesting is even
though God had dropped the truth into
his spirit he put he put wrong thought
processes around the truth and spoke it
out which is so I want to say convicting
for me because I think how many times do
I do that how many times does God drop
something into my head and then I put my
coating on it my motives my selfishness
around it because I think I know what's
right and then I put it out there and
that's not what God intended for that
piece of truth and I'm like
now enjoy I want to say it was Winston
Churchill who said the truth is so
valuable it's often protected by a
barricade of lies ah that's good yeah
it's challenging because and that's what
comes back to the selfish motive so and
I remember saying this to my church
family I said you are a generous
generous people and they wonderful
church family but I want to look at what
motivates us yeah and it's in our
relationships it's not that there isn't
a need and we meet it we do but in
relationship selfishness will permeate
every single relationship and that's
what causes pain in relationships and
that pain comes from selfishness and our
own desires even though we can be so
willing to be in relationship with some
of us we still bring the selfishness
with us and that's why it's so important
to go and look at the root cause and
saying why am i thinking about that why
am I thinking this way and and is that
the truth and and God would you help me
and I often say help me to love well
help me to love the way Lord you would
have me to love not the way I want to
love because then it's like well what am
I getting in return so if I do this what
am I getting back and that's not that's
not what Jesus wants either he says like
invite the people to your house who
can't pay you back yes is the reward
will come from God so countercultural
thinking right I feel like she just
stabbed me again because another thought
went into my head about someone I need
to pay more attention to oh I know and
when we were talking about this Jen
actually it had a list of things that
are subtle selfish behaviors that you
might not identify a selfish because the
devil likes oh I totally think there's a
little life like he'll paint the selfish
thought or motive with a varnish that
makes it more attractive or even seem
like you're doing the right thing or to
protect yourself or to put up barriers
now you are more readily able to help
other people in the future I know no but
God says the righteous give without
sparing you just pour it all out and
trust that he's going to provide for you
but the varnish can look like well
well even one of the examples you said
well like forgetting someone's birthday
because you're too busy with your own
stuff or not phoning relative forming
relatives or like not giving someone a
ride when you should give them a ride I
was like oh man that yeah because I've
said oh I'm too busy I'm doing this this
and this that's and I use busyness as a
guise for I know doing meaningful things
I guess and I was just thinking Jen like
okay what what Avenue or what modality
does God used through the holy spirit to
then push that pride out of our life so
that we can have our thoughts and
intentions in line with him to be
unselfish and I really think that it's
worship yes because in worship it's it's
where you see yourself in relation to
God mm-hmm becomes adoration for him yes
and I'm thinking of a quote I can't
remember who gave this quote but worship
is the quickening of our conscience by
His Holiness hmm and it causes
creativity and all when we examine his
beauty in the world around us and the
beauty that we see within us that he has
placed his image on us and then we give
back and Thanksgiving to God and I think
it's worship that really yeah puts
ourselves in the right position so we
can live that out yes and that's worship
with focusing on who God is no God can
do for us that's not coming to God and
saying I need this and I need you and I
need you know that's like like how great
is our God like what helps you like just
focusing on like the god aspect of work
of worship and that's funny because we
think well but I do need God
I do need God but I actually first need
to know who God is
so I find Chris Tomlin is so good and I
say I feel like I've said this before
about really dialing into who God is and
leaving us like mighty well-well mighty
to say there's another example of just
declaring who God is how great is our
God indescribable which actually Laura
story wrote but
Tomlin sings a lot of songs that just
focus in on who God is and that's what
we encourage you today it's focusing on
who God is
eyeli yourself to sit with the Lord and
and let him speak to you but maybe where
some of those areas are in your life
that you're holding on to so tightly or
some of the mindsets that you maybe have
towards your husband and your wife or
maybe even your kids or where you've
allowed the enemy to whisper lies into
your heart like I can't believe you have
to forgive that person again or I can't
believe it then you deserve better and
and so we're just gonna close in prayer
and ask the Holy Spirit to move so Holy
Spirit we ask that you'd move in our
hearts show us or we're being selfish
show us where we need to let go and
trust you help us to believe that you
are God and you will take care of all of
our needs according to your glorious
riches in Christ Jesus
thank you so much for tuning in and join
us here next week for another episode of
a medium every day have a great day see
you later
