welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 3 28 for Tuesday December
the 31st 2013 happy new year i'm your
host robbie ferguson flying solo tonight
we're gonna have a lot of fun together
you and me all by ourselves and all the
other millions of people who are here
you just can't see all right hey I'm
gonna I'm gonna fold everything together
hold down the fort tonight I'm gonna
tell you what's coming up in the
newsroom first of all one of the most
ambitious space missions in all of
history is underway they're going to be
showing us the first ever realistic
glimpse into the construction of our
galaxy also some more info is unveiled
with regards to the 40 million target
customers who have their debit and
credit card information stolen now the
bank's plan to cut customer cards off at
a piddly daling spent daily spending
limit just for shopping at Target whoops
ok Google is getting big into robotics
and their shaft robot has won first
place in DARPA's two-day competition
specifically to find the most incredible
robots the internet archive is now
providing browser-based play of classic
video games and we're talking a bigger
selection than you had even with your
Atari 2600 tella game center storage
case tons and tons of exciting stuff
coming up tonight stick around those
stories are coming up to vote halfway
through the show alright tonight I'm
going to be showing you the ultimate way
to do collaborative writing as we build
a linux server which allows you to
actually work together with other people
and everybody can edit all at the same
time so stick around is going to be a
great show I've got stuff to give away
as well we got those $25 gift cards from
ESET don't go anywhere we'll be right
back
is category five technology TV
starring
Sasha dramatis
Guillory rumble
you
Kristen wells
your kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
this is category 5 technology TV welcome
to the show we're going to have a lot of
fun tonight ESET from ESET com you want
to check them out just so you know they
have sent us some $25 prepaid Visa cards
that I'm going to be sending out to you
and we've got your ballots this week
I've got a few well handful of ballots
in this week tons of people sending me
emails nice to hear from everybody nice
to actually receive some ballots from
people that we haven't heard from in a
long time as well because a lot of you
are not quite able to necessarily tune
in to the show live so for you it's
really really nice for me to receive
those ballots and say hey oh yeah look
at them they're still watching the show
still tuning in and having a great time
and enjoying themselves so great to have
you joining us in tonight we've got draw
a bot with us tonight we're going to
give away at least a couple of these so
don't go anywhere lots to give away
these are $25 prepaid Visa cards from
ESET so I see John a peck pyrus rock
this world greg and invincible mutant
they're going by so fast I can't even
keep up we've collected your ballots
over the past week and these have been
sent to us by email good luck to
everybody this is a $25 prepaid visa
it's a gift card if you use it stores
that except visas the winner is
night Walker biz congratulations
nightwalker biz you are the proud owner
of a $25 prepaid Visa card this comes to
us from ESET at ESET com and of course
if you're in Canada or the US there it
is there's your car if you're in Canada
or the US all you need to do is go to
cat five dot TV / e set of course we are
an e set affiliate and if you use that
link in Canada or the US then they'll
actually know that you're coming from
category five and that throws a little
bit in our bank account as well so you
can have the $25 will will take what
they give us as well so thank you very
much and of course do check them out I'm
saying that not just to our winter night
Walker biz but anybody who is interested
in getting top notch antivirus products
for their windows computers or Linux
computers or business networks make sure
you go to cat five dot TV / ESET okay so
speaking of ESET we're going to take a
really quick break and we're going to
see what it is that they're doing for
for business users a cap five dot TV /
ESET stick around we'll be right back to
secure your company you need confidence
in a trusted solution
technological leadership has made he set
a pioneer of the antivirus industry for
25 years continual research and
development has earned us trust in our
solutions a long record of awards an
independent security tests our proof of
this as our millions of users worldwide
ESET endpoint security solutions for
your business
emerging threats are eliminated by our
unique scanning engine with cloud-based
technology lo system demands ensure fast
and efficient security
with control prevents network overloads
and controls online activity without an
easily manageable solution you can
oversee security on thousands of
endpoints from a single console flexible
easily managed and cost-effective
endpoint security solutions from ESET
proven trusted this is category 5
technology TV congratulations again to
our winner tonight we've got another
gift card giveaway so stick around draw
bot is standing by with your ballots
also if you want to be a part of next
week's draw all you have to do is that
just send me an email live at category
five dot TV include the word ballot in
your subject line and your category five
TV registered viewer named in the body
of the email that will be your way of
casting a ballot for draw bot next week
and we're doing that instead of going
into the chat room just over the next
couple of weeks we want to include those
of you who aren't necessarily able to
tune in to the show live I know that you
know there are those of you who are
watching in different time zones and it
may be one two three four o'clock in the
morning where you are we don't want to
exclude you from our contest so that'll
be your chance to participate category 5
technology TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tecates here you
can find them cat5 TV / tpn and the
international association of internet
broadcasters at cat5 TV / I a I be thank
you to our viewers who have sent in
donations this week makes a huge
difference we had in the month of
December it's a terrible terrible month
here at the show I gotta tell you as far
as everything kind of coming together
all at once our domains come due for
renewal our hosting comes due for
renewal we prepay annually and we have a
fairly large hosting account as you can
imagine so that comes due in December
also we had a very very high internet
bill over the past couple of months just
for our bandwidth usage as we were as we
roll out the episodes over the new
transcoders cost a lot of money to send
those files there have just been a lot
of larger than normal abnormally high
bills so your donations unless otherwise
specified or if they were through our
specifically our IndieGoGo or our
fundraiser campaigns general donations
have been put toward our month month to
month expenses and that's really making
a difference we thank you for that if
you'd like to send in a contribution as
cat five dot TV / see that's where you
can donate just two
to support the show if you want to give
one time or monthly donation also we
talked about gift cards we've got a
really cool promotion going on a camp
five dot TV / studio if you contribute
you will actually get a gift card for
the amount that you contribute which is
really really cool because let's say I
give fifty dollars then i can get fifty
dollars in say gasoline for my car i can
get a gift card for petro-canada that
will allow me to go to the gas station
and put fifty dollars in my tank so
you've given fifty dollars to the show
we subsidize these cards and then you
receive a card for fifty dollars and
it's it just as an all-around win-win so
that's a really cool way to do it it's
cat five TV / studio excellent way for
you to support the show and also it's
just a way of reallocating funds in a
little little bit because you're
basically getting it back as far as
getting those those gift cards back also
I want to say hello to those who are
newly registered on our website really
really nice to have you joining us a
category five dot TV it's a free service
our website the whole show is is
provided to you absolutely free I want
to say hello to HH BTM also lenski El
Monte slim I love Linux Regin is and
Debbie ins great to have you all joining
us at category five dot TV thank you for
being a part of it and i just want to
remind you if you haven't already
checked it out now this is going to hurt
m dot cat5 TV there it is on my shiny
forehead that's our mobile website if
you wanted to scan that code visit mcap
five TV on your mobile device that's got
the live radio feed so you can listen to
the show if you're driving around or
sitting on the train and you want to be
able to tune in maybe you don't have the
bandwidth and you just want to be able
to tune in and catch the video later
whatever you want to do it's also got
live video during the show as well as
on-demand video for some of the past
episodes so you don't want to miss out
on that mcat five TV just another way
that we distribute the show to you make
it easy for you to get ahold of category
5 technology TV on your device and again
absolutely free you can't beat that
okay well as you know I'm here flying
solo all by myself tonight no co-host
we're just gonna sit back and relax and
take it easy just you and me and you
know we'll just hang out and have a fun
time and I'm going to do my absolute
best to make sure that I cover as much
of your questions as many of your
questions as possible and try to stay on
topic try to make sure that we cover
everything that we set out to do but
first of all tonight what I wanted to
feature is we're going to learn about
collaborative writing and some software
that's going to allow us to do that in a
very very unique way I'm talking about a
text editor that allows us to in fact
edit collaboratively with other users so
we're not talking about me opening a
word document creating a word document
sending it to my friend and them having
the wrong software so then I got to
convert it to something else and and
then they open it and they added it and
they notate it and then they send it
back to me and somewhere along the line
something gets mixed up no we're talking
real time editing of whatever it could
be a document it could be code it could
be it could be your grocery list and you
know the the wife is at home and she's
typing on her iPad or whatever and I'm
somewhere else and i'm typing on my
computer and and we can be working
together to collaborate the list I mean
I'm just thinking out loud of different
things that this thing can be used for
you're going to have some great ideas as
well so tonight what I'm going to do I'm
going to actually create a virtual
machine we're going to create a server
to do this it's going to be a virtual
machine in my case it doesn't have to be
a virtual machine in your case
masterminds the was mentioning in the
chatroom that he's actually going to run
this on a on a Raspberry Pi once I show
you how to do this so maybe you're
following along right now masterminding
and just about ready to get this set up
on your Raspberry Pi that's a cool way
to do it I'm going to be doing this with
debian so in virtualbox which is a free
virtualization software going to tell ok
i'm going to call this we're going to
set it all up i might as well name it
what it is it's called etherpad so let's
just do that it's called etherpad light
but we're going to leave it as etherpad
and basic needs as far as
memory and hard drive all the defaults
dynamically allocated eight gigs doesn't
really matter at this point and we're
set to go okay so we need to get a copy
of Debian debian of course is a famous
linux distribution it's available
absolutely free it's a it's a operating
system for services operating system for
desktops it is the base of ubuntu linux
one of the most famous linux
distributions in the world is actually
powered by debian so we're going to go
right to the core of linux and we're
going to say okay let's get debian as
our base debian dot o RG you'll see here
getting debian you'll see a link for
network install that's what i want to
click on and then small cds and then
you'll see under small cds a variety of
different options we're going to go with
i386 because even though my computer is
a 64-bit computer my virtual machine is
going to be 32 bits because i don't need
more than four gigs of ram and I don't
need 64-bit architecture for this thing
so we're going to make it real simple
we're going to keep it 32-bit i'm going
to download that file here it comes not
going to take too long it's 277 Meg's
for the for the small CD so here it
comes while I'm waiting for that let's
go through some of the settings of this
virtual machine that I've just created
and again I'm going to stress that you
don't have to do this as a virtual
machine you could download this net the
net install of debian and you could do
this on a real physical box you could do
this on a Raspberry Pi you do this on
whatever you want what I'm doing is I'm
doing it on a virtual machine just for
the sake of demonstration so that we
don't have to set up actual hardware
that's fine how you want to do it is
entirely up to you ok so going through
here audio we're going to turn off
enable audio because we don't need a
sound card in our server we're going to
switch our network adapter to bridged
adapter we're going to turn off enable
USB controller because we certainly
don't need that in a server and that's
really about it now I see that my file
has finished downloading as you can see
so I'm going to actually go to storage
highlight my cd-rom drive and choose a
virtual cd/dvd disk file go to my
downloads and I see that there is
the net inst I so that i've downloaded
actually have two copies i downloaded
one just before the show just to be
certain that i didn't have any problems
with the download so i'm going to just
double click on that now i've actually
because of the way virtualization works
have basically inserted that CD into my
virtual CD rom drive how cool is that so
now when i hit ok and i double-click on
my etherpad virtual machine it's going
to start to boot up and is actually
going to boot from my debian CD what do
you want to do first option is install
let's hit right ctrl key and the f key
for let's switch to full screen mode and
we're going to choose English Canada in
my case American English and this
literally I mean we're working we're
building a server from scratch from the
software end of things and you'll see
this literally may take about eight
minutes or so time me I would say five
to eight minutes to get a full debian
install up and running if all goes well
not too sure how fast the system is that
I'm virtualizing on right here just our
demo computer but if you've got a
reasonably fast computer then you're
able to do this it's going to be pretty
good we're going to do this all in real
time none of this is pre-recorded so
you're actually seeing this in real time
this is the exact time that is taking
for me to do this it's detecting some of
my networking settings this is great no
problems whatsoever dhcp is getting my
IP address and it's good all right what
do we want to call it well let's call
this what do you say we just call it
what it is etherpad so this going to be
my etherpad server so let's do that
domain name is nothing enter we're just
going to run it as a workgroup my root
password can be whatever I want just
make it something strong full name for
my new user well let's call this
etherpad makes sense right this is a
server dedicated specifically to my
etherpad service that I'm creating
enter your password for that user enter
your time zone is Eastern in my case
here we go alright so this is just about
to partition my hard drive do I want to
use the entire disk absolutely hit enter
it's going to use the entire hard drive
but keeping in mind that what we're
actually looking at and I'm just using
default options there I'm going to do
everything default we're actually
formatting and setting up partitions
right changes to disk yes we're setting
up the partitions on a virtual hard
drive this is not happening on our
physical hard drive this is a virtual
hard drive which is a file a VDI I think
it was that we set up within virtual box
that contains a hard drive for a virtual
machine so how cool is that it's it's
all contained within this file so here
goes it's rocking its way I'll just let
you know if you want to check it out
it's etherpad dot org head on over there
right now is this is installing check
out some of the neat features that are
there it'll tell you all about it I can
bring it up on the screen as well but
you know what this is going to be done
before we know it etherpad dot or gets
free software to get this done and it
does require some form of a server setup
so that's why i'm building a debian
machine or you may put this on your
Raspberry Pi as mastermind is hoping to
do you may put this on a physical box
that you want to lock down and create
some kind of a collaborative server for
your for your workstations say in
business here's a perfect opportunity
for your staff to be able to create
documents that can be edited by anyone
who has access to that document pretty
cool stuff I mean it's rudimentary as
far as I would think of it more of a
text editor than say a word processor so
think about a Weiss a wig what you see
is what you get kind of text editor on
the web versus Microsoft Word or
LibreOffice writer but it's
full-featured it's rich and it's real
time that's what is really really
impressive about this stuff so it's
really motoring along here again this is
all happening in real time welcome to
the show this is category 5 technology
TV
I'm your host Robbie Ferguson fly-in
solo it's all about me still get the
Christmas tree up couldn't bear to take
it down just yet i figure you know what
it's not january first yet almost is
your january first is kind of the day
that I d decorate kind of hold on to it
we're just doing a turkey dinner on
Saturday so it still feels a little bit
christmasy around here because we just
been doing are things I hope you had a
nice Christmas as well for those of you
who celebrate and for those of you who
don't I mean I just you know it's the
time of year where we all just you know
it's just a nice time of year that we
all get together and and I think it's a
I don't good good time of year I guess
but certainly is nice for for us and
great times with family I had a nice
time with my family we've been sick I've
been sick but it's otherwise been great
did a nice turkey dinner on Saturday had
people over and family over and I
couldn't eat it how sad is that if
you're reading me on Twitter you saw
that I actually could not eat my turkey
dinner so the following day I made a
homemade turkey soup and that was I was
able to eat that and that was great so
it was nice to have that but sad story
hey we're at eighty-three percent here
here it comes God Erica lalonde is
actually going to be popping in a little
bit later tonight not necessarily during
this show but Rob gory you'd be
interested to note that she's coming in
to sign that eight by ten for you and
she's going to be doing up some business
cards for those of you who purchased
some business cards through our
IndieGoGo campaign as well personal
autographs all for you ninety-six
percent here we go almost there folks
it's tough not to have a little bit of
dead air when there's not anyone else
here because I've got to take a sip of
my water too here we go almost need some
drop music or something boom pow pow
yeah ninety-seven percent 98 here we go
almost there once we've got Debbie and
installed now what we're doing the first
step is basically we're creating a
server right we're doing it through
virtual box but this could be anything
but we're creating a server from scratch
which is really an exciting thing some
people have said how do we do this well
here you go you don't have to be
building I'm going to click on I'm going
to click and then talk and our CCA has
been down for me so I'm going to go with
let's say debian your Q York you will be
fairly reliable and no proxy so I just
hit enter on that what I'm saying is if
you want to build a server you can learn
from this aspect of you know what we're
doing ups up the just out the get-go all
right because even though we're going to
be building a collaborative writing
server with etherpad light you can get
up to that point by installing debian
and then you can say switch modes and
say okay i can install PHP 5 i can
install maria DB i can install PHP 5
dash mysql and i'm going to set up a
nice little web server maybe stick CSF
on there as a firewall to protect myself
from malicious users and things like
that so there are all different things
you can do at the Point once you've got
Debbie and installed and feel free to do
this in a virtual box virtual machine
because hey it's a fail safe way for you
to just sandbox which is to to practice
and play and not have to worry about
break in a real system it's a great
opportunity for you to do that so you
get one system that is reasonably
powerful and then you install virtualbox
and run all your virtual machines in
there beautiful thing about VirtualBox
to you may be thinking well I don't run
linux for those of you who are on
windows 7 windows 8 you can actually
download and install VirtualBox into
your computer and you can install Linux
in virtualbox so you can test it so now
you've got an opportunity to ya do these
server environments but
also you can test linux and say oh this
is awesome maybe i want to install this
on my on my host OS make this into my
operating system that might be the way
to go so i encourage you to try
VirtualBox if you haven't already this
is moving along it's just installing the
software through apt probably a little
longer than eight minutes i think by the
time it's downloaded and installed
everything yeah it's updating a whole
pardon me a whole bunch of stuff but it
is moving along and we're going to get
there tonight if you can believe we're
going to do this whole thing in the
course of one episode of category 5 how
exciting is that i say that now and it
said twelve percent so i have a lot of
faith in my computer so we'll see how it
goes give it just a couple more moments
before I change modes just temporarily
but while we're waiting for that I'll
just let you know this is good news I'm
just going to bring something up here
for you all right how do you like this
ladies and gentlemen the category 5
technology TV logo logo stickers have
arrived yes here's our buddy max from
sticker you calm holding one of the very
first category five stickers from the
run there it is you notice that as I
mentioned there is the light colored and
the dark colored so if you've got a
black laptop you can use the light
colored one and it'll turn out real
great if you want to stick it on a white
car you've got the dark one and you can
do that it will work on anything that
you got so we've got those here there
you go folks these are vinyl stickers
they look great they are fantastic
quality and while it looks like they are
on a white background these are in fact
transparent see that all right so that's
what's so exciting about these because
they won't they will show really really
nicely so while I'm waiting I might as
well get started sending these things
out
Rick van lie shout there we go Rick that
my shout all right go there you go buddy
that is going in the mail for you and
I'm gonna work my way through that stack
this weekend you are going to be
receiving those fairly quickly I don't
think it's going to take long to get to
you they are going out regular post very
excited to have those going out if you
didn't get a chance to get one of those
through our IndieGoGo campaign don't
worry we actually have opportunities
coming for you as we're opening our new
merch store you'll be able to purchase
those logo stickers as well but
fantastic quality they've done an
excellent job for us and very very
excited to be able to offer those to you
and really exciting to that we've got
the two different versions i love that
that is just fantastic so great news and
for those of you wondering about other
stuff all of the sign merchandise is
almost ready looks like we're getting
some of the final signatures this week a
couple other products that are going out
from China are still underway and will
have more updates for you within the
next couple of weeks I guess some you
know there were some closures over the
past couple weeks with holidays and
things so more information is coming too
okay this system is asking about the
popularity contest we can just say no to
that in this particular case we don't
need to be providing popularity contest
contest information okay almost there
okay what do we want to do Debbie and
desktop environment new print server new
standard system utilities new ok notice
I have unchecked everything because
guess what we're going to build our own
server we don't need to rely on meta
packs or debian to tell us what we need
no we're going to do this all from
scratch we know what we're doing right
right I don't need to select ssh server
i can just install openssh server and
i'm good to go and then I don't get a
bunch of extra cruft if you will because
we are going to choose the packages that
we want to install in this particular
case there's times when you know if you
want to set up a desktop debian system
you certainly want to choose the default
system utilities and the desktop
environment
maybe a ton of time and will work well
with your laptop or desktop computer but
in our case we're building a server we
just want it to be for server use here
we go it's a blue screen not of death
this is linux not windows it actually
means that we're almost there I think
it's installing grub that's one of the
final steps that's our boot loader here
we go so it didn't take very long at all
when you consider and it's all you know
it's downloading everything through the
internet with the amount of traffic that
we're putting in right now okay do you
want to install it to the Master Boot
Record yes remember I'm doing this on a
virtual machine there's nothing else on
the virtual hard drive you may want to
be conscious of what you're doing with
regards to where you install grub if
you're doing this on a physical machine
with other installations but in our case
it's just the sole thing on the hard
drive here we go almost there ok
continue installation complete yes I'll
say finally realistically though that
wasn't so painful was it when you think
about it we've installed windows XP
before so that was not painful at all ok
what do you want to do go here we go
booting up for the first time here's
debian and yes go go go all right reel
in we're in ok you log in etherpad
password it's the one that you assigned
and now we are in debian we're not in
ubuntu or point linux so we're actually
going to go su enter to become root all
right now i'm going to enter my root
password now i'm going to go apt-get
update notice I didn't need sudo because
I'm already route ok apt-get install
open SSH server is the first thing that
I want because I want to be able to
basically connect into this thing with
ssh so that I now I've got a headless
system out there that I can control just
through ssh how beautiful is that ok so
as soon i can just minimize that i can
bring up my terminal now i'm going to
need to determine the IP address i guess
so
let that finish i'm going to type an
ifconfig because i am root remember
ifconfig tells me that this is 1000 dot
204 you see that I net ad group ok 204
so I'm going to go in my terminal this
is my host now I'm no longer in the
virtual machine SSH etherpad at 1000
that 204 and it warns me that I've never
connected to this host before and it has
a bad okay now i actually i have
previously had a server connected on
this IP address so i need to actually
remove that particular that you won't
have had that happen I've had another
computer running on 204 and so it's
telling me that hey that one doesn't
actually match so ok I got to remove
that so the way to do that I can't
really show you because it's going to
reveal some confidential information of
my system because I do connect via ssh
to other things so I'm just going to
edit my known hosts file and I'm going
to remove the key for 10 0 dot 0 dot 204
or I can just remove the known hosts
file I'll do that okay let's try again
don't worry you won't have that happen
okay now this is what you probably see
so I'm connecting to 204 are you sure
you want to continue connecting yes
permanently added it to my known hosts
enter my etherpad password now I have
remoted into that computer s you become
root right apt-get update will allow me
see I'm now actually updating that
server I'm no longer doing anything on
my computer I'm connected over here so
let's bring up etherpad org let's take a
look and you're going to see what
etherpad is we're going to go to
download and notice there's a linux and
mac and windows download we're going to
ignore that completely and instead we're
going to click on see the installation
installation instructions let's click on
that okay so scroll down a little ways
and you'll see gnu/linux and other
unix-like systems and the first option
is for debian / ubuntu now we're on
debian so that's the one that we want
we're going to copy that line which is
going to install some of the things like
get and curl and python we're going to
need in order to run this software so
back in our ssh see because in our in
our virtual machine itself we don't have
a way to paste in anything cleanly so
with ssh though I can go edit paste
enter I'm just going to say oh yeah you
can do that yes okay so it's doing all
that next step we need to get nodejs
it's basically a software that runs on
the server to be able to interpret
server-side JavaScript check this out
all you need to do is go to the nodejs
website right click on the install
button copy link location and back at
our servers SSH once it's done
installing all the other stuff that it's
got we're going to actually be able to w
get the the file for nodejs alright so
that's almost done there
come on Mandy be so noticed I noticed
that I've transitioned from the process
of applying a debian server and now
we're actually deploying the etherpad
light and nodejs software and all of the
dependencies for that alright so we're
no longer working on the Debian server
so much as we are getting it ready with
the software that we're going to be
running on it here we go there's get
coming across the line alright and we're
done okay so now we're going to go into
let's say temp / TMP w get and then
paste that URL from nodejs and we're
going to download that node version 0.24
so now we want to it's a tar file right
so you see that it snowed whatever tar
gz so what I actually want to do is I
want to untie that so I'm gonna go tar
dash X V F and then I can just type in
node and then hit tab and then hit enter
and you'll see that it's going to
extract all of the files from there and
it placed them in a folder called the
same as the file name so now there's the
fought there are all the files that were
in that tar.gz file which is basically
the equivalent of say a zip file okay so
now we need to configure that so we go
dot slash configure from within the node
folder notice that I'm no longer in /
TMP I'm in you know I've gone into / TMP
/ node V 0 whatever it is at the time
that you run this it may be different
because we're actually going to be doing
this we're getting the latest version of
nodejs because we don't want to use
apt-get to get it because it's fallen
behind ok so we're running the absolute
latest version of nodejs so I'm in that
folder and I'm going to go dot slash
configure noting that i am still root
okay because I a skewed in this session
and I have not exited okay dot slash
configure and it's done okay now i type
make and this is
gonna be the most time-consuming process
i think is building this is compiling
them it's really not that hard when you
think about somebody says oh well you
got to compile the software yourself
it's really not that hard i mean what
did we do dot slash configure make and
now just have a sip your coffee make a
paper airplane whatever and it will take
a couple of moments but when it's done
it's compiled then we just need to
install it from the compiled software
and we're good to go so that's our next
step so all right i'm going to go back
to my browser here while i'm waiting for
that to make let's see what else we need
to do okay well really we're just kind
of standing by at this point because the
next step is we're going to actually
clone the git repository for etherpad
light and then we're practically done so
here we go that's gonna run I'm gonna
invite my darling wife down here because
I think she would be fantastic at
testing this with me how do you like
that and she'll help entertain us
because I am just here all by myself
very lonely very lonely so how was how
are you doing talk to me send me email
live at category 5 TV if you've got
questions for me this week I'm looking
forward to having Hillary here next week
and we've got more of those those gift
cards to give away from ESET loads of
exciting things going on I'm going to
tell you about it them a little bit
that's just coming through I've just
sent back a message and she's going to
come and join us and we're going to play
with this thing and do some
collaborative writing once this is done
so still making that and it does take a
little bit of time as I mentioned but
you see it's it's really quite easy to
do all right here we go
hello my darling she works her way to
the studio here welcome I'll get you
just to plug into this here we go and
just stick that on your belt tonight
there we go can you folks at home here
Becca have a seat welcome give me a
sound check check check check one two
hello alright we're just in the final
phase of deploying a collaborative
writing software which is pretty neat
because I'm just gonna fix this for you
because it seems to be a little bit okay
hanging off there it's that better
that's better alright well thanks for
coming down it's been risking really
lonely the past you know what 40 minutes
it's just been me sitting down here I
think that there's somebody watching
good to see you so we're just compiling
a piece of software it's going to allow
collaborative writing so you as an
author you know I think about you could
be writing and sometimes you want
somebody to proof your work and you want
them to be able to kind of work with you
on maybe enhancing a scene or something
so typically you would take a block of
text that you're in the process of
writing it pasted into Facebook or
whatever send it over to them in a
private message they'd make suggestions
and then you'd have to go back and edit
it in your document right it's pretty
difficult so what if instead you could
paste that block of text doesn't have to
be your master document paste that block
of text into a form that is basically a
web form and with that they can actually
edit it with you get them on the phone
and actually talk about it this working
it's just loose simply here we're gonna
get becca all fixed up here how's that
way to put you on the spot and just say
hey come down and be on the show there's
a microphone upstairs put it on yeah so
does that sound interesting like yeah
for sure I think about that's a good
scenario I think I
so mentioned you know would it be cool
if when we're working on the shopping
list you know if I'm at work and you're
here and you know what do we often do is
we consolidate our list and then you
send me an email with the final list but
in order to even just doing a shopping
list a bullet list and being able to
collaboratively edit that throughout the
day and then at the end of the day I
just print it and we're done yeah that's
kind of a neat scenario as well yeah so
literally final phase here we're just
making the software that is used to run
this is called nodejs and the software
that we're going to be running is called
etherpad light so folks at home it is
still compiling here we go and as I
mentioned this is probably the the most
time-consuming part of this entire
process so I've got your laptop all
fired up there becca so in a few moments
time you're going to be able to connect
into this thing if all went well I mean
I'm assuming that it all went well right
because at the end of this this is real
time and it's happening live so at the
end of this what could happen is could
all fail miserably but I don't expect
that's going to happen because we've
committed too much time to it not that I
ever have had that happen right folks
you guys weren't watching two weeks ago
where all right good good oh you don't
know about that one day back no I wasn't
watching two weeks ago we're gonna hello
Kay just be told ya it's really it's
really geeky this show she tells me so
we go I don't really know that'd be nice
to have a progress indicator or
something yeah we don't have normally
we'd you know take a break and but we're
doing a live broadcast you while you're
here do you want to like do you want to
help me do the news or something we do
the news while we wait for this to
compile sure all right I mentioned some
of the news stories that we have off the
top of the show but here I'll give you a
page and all hey you don't how's that
so we'll we'll take a look at the news
folks and that's we're going to just let
that compile and take it from there all
right you ready for it
okay here are the top stories from the
category 5 TV news room Europe has
launched the Gaius satellite one of the
most ambitious space missions in history
which has been development has been in
development for more than 20 years the
740m euro observatory lifted off a
little under two weeks ago Gaia is going
to map the precise positions and
distances to more than a billion stars
this should give us the first realistic
picture of how our Milky Way galaxy is
constructed Gaia's remarkable
sensitivity since its sensitivity will
lead also to the detection of many
thousands of previously unseen objects
including new planets and asteroids the
satellite is now traveling out to an
observing station some 1.5 million
kilometers from Earth well on its night
side a journey that will take about a
month to complete by the end of the
decade the Gaia archive of processed
data is expected to exceed 1 petabyte 1
million gigabytes equivalent to about
200,000 DVDs of information wow that
sounds awesome I think about you know
we're big on sci-fi and everything but
to think that they can travel that far
what was it 1.5 1.5 million kilometers
in a month mm-hmm nice yeah cool there
is hope for the human race yet we'll get
there folks interstellar travel that's
next this is interesting a little bit
scary you want me to take this one well
shag team how about that yeah all right
well here's a little bit of an update
for you with regards to the target
kerfuffle details on more than 40
million cards were stolen in fact by
thieves who compromised card swipe
systems at targets tills so was the
swiping systems security researchers
said that the stolen card numbers had
been seen on underground markets already
the thieves managed to grab the key
details for so many cards by getting
malware onto the computer systems at the
checkout desks at more than 1,800 Target
stores in the US alone it's still not
clear how the thieves managed to get
them
we're onto the systems but target said
in the statement released after it
realized it was under the had been under
attack that the thieves had accessed the
card data read at the tills for almost
three weeks jpmorgan chase said it had
lowered daily spending limits to three
hundred dollars that's the equivalent of
about 183 pounds and daily cash
withdrawal limits to just one hundred
dollars on potentially vulnerable
accounts people who had been shopping at
Target security researcher Brian Krebs
said that there was evidence that card
numbers stolen in the target attack had
shown up on underground markets where
such details are traded he was actually
able to confirm the availability of card
details which have been stolen from
target by buying a dump of credit card
numbers and matching them to those that
had been used in the store during the
breach that's scary stuff I would find
it incredibly frustrating and unnerving
to simply swipe my car to the store and
then find that all my data I mean enough
information literally to clone my card
yeah and then to have my bank cut me
down to a one hundred dollar a day limit
yeah I mean sure you want to get a new
card but I mean mmm that's kind of
frustrating mm-hmm the little bit you
really take one mm-hmm this is kind of
neat Google is really getting solid into
robotics I tell you a robot developed by
a Japanese startup recently acquired by
Google is the winner of a two-day
competition hosted by the pentagon's
research unit DARPA team shafts machine
carried out all eight rescue theme tasks
to outscore its rivals by a wide margin
three of the other 15 teams that took
part failed to secure any points at the
event near Miami Florida shafts one
point 48 meters 4 feet 11 inches tall
two legged robot entered the contest the
favorite and lived up to its reputation
it makes use of a new high voltage
liquid-cooled motor technology that uses
a capacitor rather than a battery for
power it's entered entered engineer
sorry say this lets its arms move and
pivot at
higher speeds than would otherwise be
possible in effect giving it stronger
muscles shafts robot behaved nearly
perfectly but lost points because the
wind blew a door out of their robots
hold and because the robotic creation
was not able to climb out of a vehicle
after it successfully navigated an
obstacle course DARPA's mr. Pratt added
that the competition in the finals that
will be held this month would help bring
forward a time the machines could be
used in real world situations saying
today's modest progress will be a good
next step to help save mankind from
disasters the top 18s can now apply for
up to a million dollars of DARPA's
investment before the finals to improve
their robot skills and the winner will
get a 2 million dollar prize Wow think
of the potential of a two legged robot
that can do all of those things like a
fixing pipes of water hoses so you think
about okay if there is a fire or
something and that a human could not
safely go in and we hear about you know
the sad stories of firefighters lives
being lost because they're committed to
saving the lives of people that are you
know that they can help but to be able
to send in a robot like there's the the
plus side of it right as being able to
send in a robot that can do those kinds
of tasks with no danger to human life
that's really awesome I think yeah
there's certainly potential there well
both space missions they don't have to
breathe send them into space let them
drift for a while yeah the Google robot
in space all right I'm gonna take the
next one you ready for this we've taken
a look a little bit of nostalgic gaming
over the past while we we've hit on a
couple on the internet and html5 really
kind of bringing them to check this out
classic video games from the 70s and 80s
have been put online by the internet
archive they can be played within your
web browser for absolutely nothing the
collection which is found at cat 5 TV /
classic has launched with games from 5
early home consoles including the Atari
2600
and colecovision the Internet Archive
has said that while the games do not yet
have sound they soon will well
recognized titles such as pac-man space
invaders and Frogger are all in the
archive with more consoles and games
expected soon fantastic alright well for
the category five dot TV news room I'm
Robbie Ferguson and I'm Becca Ferguson
check out category 5 TV / newsroom or if
you've got a story that's worthy of
on-air mention make sure you email
newsroom at category five dot TV all
right well that is all done deploying
and thanks for that Beckett by the way
very kind of you I didn't have a chance
to proof read it I know and it's a good
thing that it was so incredibly
well-written okay so node J ass is done
making now we need to go make install
alright so that's the actual
installation process which is much much
quicker it's done alright done no errors
we're good to go so next step now that
we have got all of the stuff that we
need okay well we actually need to
install our software etherpad right so
we're going to use get for that so
notice that I'm route right now we need
to type exit so that i'm back at being
etherpad go to my home folder which is
tilde right which currently has nothing
in it and I'm going to run the next
commands from this list on the website
etherpad dot org and I'm going to paste
that in now what we're actually doing is
we're cloning the git repository to our
computer to the virtual machine server
so now it's done so now if I go into
that directory you'll see that you'll be
able to run it now so if i go into well
if i do another LS you'll see etherpad
light is now there etherpad light and
you look in and everything's there so if
we go bin run Sh well says please be
patient if this is the first time you've
ever run it okay
so my IP address their Becca was 204 so
on your computer if you want to go to
and I'm going to do the same so you can
copy from my screen 1000 204 colon colon
9001 is the default port and you'll see
right now it says unable to connect but
what I'm doing is I'm just waiting for
that it says please be patient so we're
going to be a little more patient than
that alright 1000 at 204 that's the IP
address of my virtual machine 9001 is
the port so that's why I've got a colon
after the IP address so the port is 9001
by default here we go all right you
ready for it it looks like it's okay
it's finishing up now if i refresh does
it start yet not yet okay still doing
the this is the initial build i'm just i
just installed everything we're running
the etherpad light software for the very
first time so it's configuring
everything it's setting up a temporary
database it's doing all that stuff for
us so it takes a little bit more time
then say subsequent runs subsequent runs
that are going to be instantaneous there
we go okay looks like everything is you
know up and up let's see entering
directory there's some errors there
hopefully none of them are errors that
are going to prevent execution starting
and using dirty DB which is the
temporary database engine and looks like
it's up there we go so hit enter on that
becca and you'll see that now etherpad
is up and running yet so would you I can
actually create a pad just so the
viewers at home can see this so let's
say we're gonna we're going to call this
writing okay so now I've created my
first pad so what I'm going to get you
to do Becca is go to that address / p /
writing with a capital W okay now you'll
see up in the top right-hand corner here
I've got one now when Becca comes in
here all of a sudden it's too because
there are now two people working on this
document I'm going to actually click on
that up in the top right hand side
and i'm going to enter my name my name
is robbie and the other person here is
becca i'm going to make beck a different
color I think I can do that maybe it's
not there I'm going to zoom out a little
bit yeah here we go colors I don't know
it's in here somewhere folks all right
you want to start typing back just cuz
I'm looking you know so we're
collaboratively I'm looking for how to
change your color oh what did i do need
oh that's a cool I was looking at the
timeline and i got myself forbidden
let's try again there we go Oh milk eggs
yogurt cereal bananas okay so you've
started creating a bullet list of our
groceries now I'm gonna remove all this
other junk that's temporary stuff what
happened on your screen it was removed
as well ok so now watch this I'm gonna
go milk two bags so what's happened on
your screen there's two bags yeah so
just for the sake of the viewers at home
if you could actually just you know work
on that list maybe change a few things
and I'm gonna just zoom in a little bit
so she's on the laptop there and she's
typing away that's not me and it's
actually it would be nice if it was a
different color and I know that you can
set that I'm forgetting where it is that
I set that
no oh duh okay I'm gonna be red okay so
you're green I'm red test okay so now
I've typed that now you go ahead and
while you're doing that I can be up here
doing other stuff right you can be doing
that and then I can capitalize the c cuz
it should be capital and I get input
that's very important I know she know
we're gonna go sunday chips with a small
see what is that I know so here we I
mean this is a just a silly little
example right but thinking of the
scenario where you're editing something
for your book you want to have a
paragraph in there you want people to
help you with their ideas and things you
can actually see who has entered some of
the information was a you know whatever
so that happens in real time on her
screen now what happens if we both start
typing at the same time I'm going to
start typing on line 15 you start typing
on line 16 or something right below me
so literally here we are in real time I
can't talk and type at the same time
here we go let's race oh I just moved
her down the line how do you like that
so there's really a lot of control here
that we can do when working
collaboratively so how fantastic is that
we pulled it off within the course of an
episode thank you for helping with the
demonstration but I think there are a
lot of scenarios where that can be very
very useful for it for sure let us know
how you end up using this particular
software again is called etherpad light
and it's available for you for free all
you have to do is follow through this
tutorial you'll be able to have it up
and running if you don't want to go
through and let's say you're just ah
just feeling so lazy it's New Years Eve
I just want to have this thing up and
running instantly all you need to do is
go to turn key linux org and it turn key
linux org you're going to get pre-built
etherpad light you can just download the
virtual machine run it you're done I
like to have a lot more fun than that I
like to do it myself yeah I like to show
you how to do what would be the
advantage of doing it the long way as
well use we have complete control over
all the stuff that's been installed so
from the very GetGo we installed nothing
that we didn't need so the server ends
up being our built server it has only
the software that we need we've used
very very little space right I don't
even know how much space we've used
their let's take a look at the virtual
machine let's see virtual machines and
if I can find the location of the VDI
file either pad so that file the VDI
file is in total 1.6 gigabytes so very
very small amount of space being used
for that when it really blows down to
the fact we've got the OS the software
everything do keep in mind that it's
using dirty d be out of the box if
you're going to use this in a production
environment you need to use a nice solid
data basing engine such as Maria DB
mysql something
like that all the directions are
available for you on their website
etherpad dot org so make sure you check
that out and learn about how to set up
running on a proper database engine I'll
just show you really really quickly if I
control C out of that here we go control
C now I've basically closed off the
connection becca's says reconnecting
reconnecting your pad you do an LS you
see a file called settings JSON nano
settings JSON and you can actually go
through this file very very
self-explanatory how to set this up you
can rename it you can set things up and
you can change your database type 2
mysql you can set up your mysql database
ok there it is dbtype mysql DB settings
and all that stuff so you know a little
bit about that of a do fall of
directions on their server on their
website etherpad org so thanks for being
with us tonight hope you had a good time
and we're just about right out of time
hard to believe that we've run out of
time but we've got more of those gift
cards to give away next week so you
don't have any more time tonight but
make sure you check us out next Tuesday
night Hillary rumble is going to be
joining me and we've got some exciting
stuff going on next week we're going to
be taking the GIMP the GNU image
manipulation program and enhancing the
filter set so we're taking a free image
manipulation program and making it even
better than it is over the box so you
don't want to miss that happy new year
everybody thanks for joining us tonight
Becca nice to see a happy Union happy
new year
see everybody bye we hope you enjoyed
the show category 5 TV broadcasts live
from Barrie Ontario Canada every tuesday
at seven pm eastern if you're watching
this on demand or through cable TV check
out the local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada will see you next
time thanks for tuning in
