as we get into part 9 of Sasha
Rickman's sweet gaming rig bill tonight
Rd Blair sent an email what a tardy
Blakely Rd Blair first of all so nice to
know that you're still watching the show
you've been around for a long time and
it is great to have you joining us and
thankfully saved the universe by telling
me hey didn't you forget to install the
12 volt 8 pin power cable which is the
power cable for the CPU and we did we
kind of were running out of time last
week and along with that it's like okay
put it together and good at going and we
fired it up without the CPU so had we
had HDMI output going it would have just
not fired up now we had our but there
was no power to the CPU or at least it
didn't have its 12 volts that it that it
covet because it's such a powerful
little system so I put that on there
Thank You Rd Blair for pointing it out
it would have been noticed pretty
quickly but it could have been noticed
on the air would have set us back a
little bit this is real serious like
team-build this is a big thing and if
you want to be a part of the community
bill even if you're seeing this two
years from now it's okay go to cat five
dot TV slash CPU two zero one seven
that's the year that we're broadcasting
it and it's a really it has been it's
been a community building on the
selection of hardware to why we selected
it the pricing budgeting all that stuff
has been thanks to the community and now
as we get into this tonight we're going
to be setting up an operating system
that's recommended by the community so
how cool is that
let's get right into it okay first of
all I did a couple of things like this
power cable that Rd Blair mentioned off
the air just before the show so I
plugged that in the other thing that I
did is I plugged in this beautiful
Kingston HyperX savage harddrive this is
a no this is an SSD I should say to be
absolutely correct yeah so this SSG
Sascha is going to be your data
so he's got the MDOT two that you
already installed that is your OS drive
right and then we're gonna set up the
SSD because it's a terabyte drive it's
screaming fast it's beautiful and it is
going to hold all your data so it's got
a lot a lot more space cool
that's like game data your documents
your pictures and somebody said agamotto
was looking at it and saying why are you
going so overkill with things like the
RAM and things like the hard drive the
storage space I can understand the m2
but why are you getting the terabyte SSD
as well because it's pretty expensive
well the fact is we understand I
understand and the community understands
that sash is building this for Dave as a
gift her husband Dave and it's a sweet
gaming rig I'll give it that if it was
just a sweet gaming rig VM - at 256
gigabytes is going to be perfectly fine
now right I understand though that as
you're newly weds yes this is not only
your gaming computer this is also your
family computer exactly this is the
everything this is everything so all of
your family photos and videos especially
are gonna take up some space those kinds
of things are gonna go on there so we
want to make sure that they're not only
ready for gaming and doing what they
need to do today but that we're ready
future ready we're ready to be able to
use this thing for the next 3-5 years
plus that's the hope so
we're gonna get into it tonight first of
all now that that's installed I've got
to go through kind of the BIOS setup so
as I first fire this thing up are we
ready yes ready ready yes okay it's
ready to go fire it up and what do we
find
Oh Republic of gamers beautiful I love
these boards so it's gonna go right into
the BIOS first and foremost and the
first thing I notice is that it's taking
me to the extreme Tweaker which gives me
this XMP feature in XMP of course is
extreme memory profile from a soos and
basically what that does is these
settings are going to allow me to set up
overclocking for you and Dave in such a
way that it's all automatic that's just
one of me that we need lots of cooling
and we have that so as you can see it's
now gonna do all the cores we've it's
detected our 2666 Ram from
that's the fury RAM and everything is
kind of Auto that means it's going to
automatically adjust the frequencies of
the RAM the CPU as it needs to in order
to make it as fast as possible so you
see it clocks at 4.2 gigahertz there
4200 megahertz but if I go back to
extreme Tweaker I can see that with the
overclocking it's gonna go up to 4,500
megahertz or 4.5 gigahertz okay so I'm
gonna save that setting so now we are
officially overclocked in the simplest
way possible and so showing me what it's
going to change can't get any simpler
than that
and now it just booted right back into
the BIOS so we need to look at our boot
devices and see that our boot order is
okay
first of all so just scroll down here I
love the interface this this bias
utility from from Republican gamers
looks great so I need to disable see
it's detecting the hard drives the m2
there I'm gonna disable and then I've
got a disabled now let's move that up
I'm gonna disable the SATA drive as well
so now I have no Drive selected for boot
because we don't want it to actually
boot from that but I noticed that it's
not detected my USB drive yet so I'm
just gonna save that and unplug that
plug it back in
let the BIOS know that hey there's a USB
Drive so let's see what happens here see
if it'll be right up no went right back
in so here we go now I know that it
supports compatibility mode you can see
CSM is there oh and now you can see the
data traveller is a boot option so you
can see how that could get frustrating
if you don't know to look for this thing
I need to select that USB Drive as my
boot disk and then save and reboot here
we go moment of truth
we're overclock disable the hard drives
as boot devices they're still detected
and we've set it up to boot from the USB
and there it is the familiar you've been
to kind of loading thing at the bottom
there that's what that is Sasha perfect
thanks
so the distro that I've got here is
called Ubuntu game pack I was looking
for a gaming Linux distribution and this
is based on 1604 this is the L
yes our long-term support version of
Ubuntu which means it's supported until
2021 I think or 2022 needless to say
it's gonna be supported for a good long
time and that means that you're not
gonna have to reinstall your operating
system every six months thank you which
is good that's all yes so then when that
LTS cycle is done we can just simply
roll it up to the next LTS beautiful
perf attribute so this is Ubuntu Linux
it's available in Ubuntu calm but the
particular flavor that we've chosen is
built specifically for gamers gamers so
it's optimized for gaming it comes
pre-installed with play on Linux Lutra
steam steam is something that we really
wanted to move steam is twitch on their
twitch TV is available through your
browser so okay so I suppose you could
just bring it up in chrome or chromium
okay the area ago what else it's just
it's got a ton of stuff so this one is a
spin-off of the boon too and it's
available at you a linux.com so Sascha
that's all that I'm really allowed to do
I kind of want you to take over and we
want to see how quickly we can do this
and I see that it's it's finished
booting we're at this screen to either
try or install Lubuntu so if I move the
mouse over to you right and we've and
we've got a suite Gaming Mouse and
wireless gaming keyboard for them as
well folks this is all you there you go
I don't know that you're going to need
the keyboard but there it is okay put it
right in front so Sascha is in control
now and she's kind of like doing the I'm
gonna put it right up here so when I
bring it up on the screen Sascha can see
it oh okay TV in front of you there
Sascha so click on install Lubuntu
click it wait for it okay so do we want
to install third-party software for
graphics and Wi-Fi hardware flash 83 and
other media absolutely so check that off
so that's gonna install like your
graphics drivers and things like that
awfully I mean it'll all work so
continue now you noticed download
updates while installing is
is not an available option that means
that our internet is not connected to
this particular computer right now so we
can run those updates down the road or a
little bit later it doesn't matter okay
come on now this is running from a USB
flash drive USB flash drives
traditionally are quite you know there's
they're not as slow as CD optical media
but they're a lot slower than once this
is installed on the computer so once
this is on the m2 she's gonna be
screaming fast all right so next
question let's see if we can speed this
up a little bit there we go okay so what
do you want to do so yeah we want to
erase the desk
do we want to encrypt it I would say no
to that cause your desktop computer use
LVM absolutely because LVM is going to
allow us we've learned this on the show
before if you're not familiar with LVM
or you want to learn a little bit more
about it it's it's amazing and it allows
you to run snapshots of your entire hard
drive so that you can do backups on the
fly without having to shut down yeah you
that is perfect that's one of the
advantages so head on over to our
website category five dot TV do a quick
search for LVM and you're gonna get all
the instructions on how to do that so
we're just gonna turn that on because if
we ever want it it's a pain in the butt
to switch to it so we should I do this
something else
ah now let's not do something else let's
keep it a you know keep it simple and
what does it want to do okay now up at
the top there we see that it's got a 240
gig at Kingston m2 can you click on that
drop down for me Sasha this just so we
can see if it's detect there and it's
also detected the the terabyte SSD so we
want to install this on the m2 so that's
the first drive the one that it
automatically selected and that is being
detected as s da so install now okay so
that drive as you can see is about a
quarter of the capacity of the the SSD
so we're gonna use those two together to
get the most blazing speed that we can
possibly get the most reliability it's
gonna go really really well excited yes
can you believe that that we're pretty
much now just okay it's asking do you
are you sure you want to continue
because what is this going to do if you
write to the disks you're going to wipe
out any data that's on there how much
on there right now well nothing nothing
oh it's a brandy system that you just
built so you're absolutely good to go
but do keep in mind if you're doing this
on a pre-existing installation you need
to think twice at that point and what is
that our time so there's our time zone
so New York no highlight New York I just
type in Toronto because that's where we
are we're just north of Toronto about 50
minutes can you marry now you can do it
that way sure
Oh what is there another way well triple
click and there you go
Toronto right up at the top Terry Oh
Canada
oh thank you actually like yeah you need
to click it with the mouse girl oh well
well goodness gracious this is how we
learn
just press backspace once there you know
Bagon Toronto okay there you go
uh Sasha is amazing with a mouse so that
this whole process to install Lubuntu is
about three minutes it's gonna take
about four hours race yourself where are
we at okay
click continue please I know okay
English u.s. keyboard that's fine that's
what were you okay so just couldn't
continue yeah okay board so your name
well I don't know if you want to put the
leave oh yeah that's true I could put my
Rickman's
no Rickman's and then your computer name
call it Rickman would be fine and then
pick a username so Rickman all lowercase
all lowercase
okay and then under choose password I
want you to enter one two three
that sounds amazingly secure that's very
secure because it's a combination of a
word and some numbers no don't listen to
her listen to me don't do it okay sorry
you need to pick a password we can you
can use password one two three four
today because we can change it down the
road when we're not on the air people
okay let's just do that okay it's gonna
tell you that it is safe fair that's
very nice
is that password one two three yeah all
right everybody you can hack into their
computer no problem
now this is your home computer so you
need to think about this do you want to
require your password in order to turn
it on no do you want to just make it go
right to the day we can just make it go
right to it if this was your laptop I
would say absolutely you need that
password I probably would have opted for
encryption as well yeah but because this
is your desktop computer I mean unless
someone steals it from you but if that
happens it's not the worst thing let's
be honest I might steal this it's a
beautiful system I know this is our new
broadcast it's a pretty sweet rig I can
log in automatically
so it's an option because you're going
like crossover over here in the keyboard
I set it up over here I am NOT here so
okay so now it is going through the
installation processing see while you
were taking your sweet time there it
actually continued to install is that a
dinosaur squirrel that's a squirrel that
is definitely a squirrel okay I've never
seen a dinosaur with the tail that thick
and that long I've never seen a dinosaur
you see pictures I've seen pictures of
dinosaurs on green screen on different
cameras I was so high five you right now
do the virtual high five yes as I bleed
into the next frame alright so that is
installing we're gonna take a really
quick break while that continues when we
come back hopefully everything is gone
smashley well we're gonna be ready to
boot up into our brand new operating
system ubuntu what is it called gaming
game pack you into game the hack is
based on stick around we're gonna be
right back after this you've got mad
skills
now hone them learn new skills or
improve your existing ones with online
video tutorials and training from
lynda.com through our special link at
cat5 dot TV slash Lynda learn software
technology creative and business skills
you can use today to
help you achieve your professional goals
join today and start learning will give
you this chance to try it absolutely
free with unlimited access to all of the
courses sign up now for free cat5 dot TV
slash Linda this is category five
technology TV welcome back and tonight
we are digging into the installation of
sashes new operating system on her
gaming rig now Jeff you mentioned
there's a question that came in in the
chat room as we were on break there yeah
so Albuquerque turkey was watching and
he wanted to know did he see you turn
off secure boot you did not see me do
that okay what did he see okay did you
did he hear me when I mentioned that it
has a compatibility option so yes BIOS
by default is going to allow both UEFI
and legacy mode options so your devices
are either/or now in the BIOS you can
select just legacy mode which is
probably what we can do but by default
fortunately for us the default option is
there and it supports legacy or UEFI not
not one or the other so if you have this
board and you're having trouble what
does it mean what a secure boot mean
so technically secure boot is still
enabled on this board secure boot UEFI
is like a technology mostly used by
Microsoft Windows that allows them to
make sure that I mean the the pretense
is that viruses can't get into your
bootloader
right realistically it keeps other
operating systems from running on your
operating system on your computer as
well in our case we want to install
Linux so we need to be running in legacy
mode it can be installed in UEFI mode
but you can you know it's a much more
complicated so it's still enabled but
we're running with legacy mode as the
default option in the BIOS but check
those out there is there are options
there for the compatibility mode as well
as security settings under the boot menu
on this particular motherboard and this
motherboard sash maybe you can remind us
what it is that that you bought I do
the asus is it ROG Maximus Seuss oh my
half a series and people say no you say
it wrong it's Asus or years ago when I
was building computers as an OEM
manufacturer this is years ago so this
might first build in many years I've
been working with HP Lenovo and all that
for as long as I can remember
so when I worked with a seuss I talked
to them on the phone right and they
called themselves to Sue's so that's
that was how I go right to the source
right okay so that's where that comes
from
okay so I think that answers your
question Albuquerque Turkey thank you
for sending it in and we're ready to get
back into this I believe hold on before
you do that she's never finished her
list or at least where you could find a
list oh well the well the list is what
the list is on the actual cat five dot
TV slash CPU 2017 right yes yes that's
where you would find it
we picked all those hard pieces of
hardware how much it cost all that kind
of stuff that's all Tanner you can
budget it and do something similar if
you like not one two three yeah no it's
exclamation point oh is that well no
that's not what mine is right now
alright so it is done Sasha all I need
you to do is click on restart Nair where
am i oh click on the mouse once because
it's gone to sleep it's a wireless mouse
where you don't just save power your
wireless mouse stops working and then
you just click it a single click to to
make it come back there we go
we're rebooting now I wonder if this is
going to and don't worry about that
error message that has to do it looks
like a sound card driver okay
so that's not that's not a problem for
us right now we're in a live mode boot
scenario
so hopefully that just reboots if not we
can do a hard boot it is running off the
live media oh let's try it okay I'm
gonna eject that you ready sash okay
I'm gonna hit reset blue screen blue
screen of death folks we just installed
Windows accident okay so what's gonna
happen is it going to boot from the hard
drive no I don't think it is I think
we're gonna end up in our BIOS again
because we've never set the bootloader
yes that's really order right so now
let's go into and I'm taking control
here for a moment Sasha into boot and
you notice we have no hard drives
enabled but we installed that on the
first drive here
the 240 gig MDOT - okay so let's now
save that so that's that's just
selecting it's not turning on or turning
off hard drives it's just telling your
BIOS which drive do you want to boot
from and Albuquerque Turkey for the sake
of your question these are the things
that I was talking about compatibility
support module so you can actually go in
there and you'll see that legacy op ROM
is selected and then there's UEFI and
legacy or UEFI only that's the setting
that you're asking about as far as UEFI
goes but as far as secure boot right
below that it has defaulted to other OS
and then there's also Windows UEFI mode
so even though I didn't have to do that
myself it is selected before you go
anywhere crazy with that did you see on
the right hand side it has the
temperature no it has hardware monitor
CPU temperature Suite 3 see we can
actually go into that it's meet monitor
let's see here and watch what happens
here
no our motherboard is 33 degrees C 36 on
the beat RM o we show this to Dan can
you show him that oh yeah I feel chair
that's why it's so quiet it has been
spun down to 548 rotations per minute
while chassis fan is at 7:46
it is so quiet folks yeah you can't hear
a beautiful and that's all part of this
cue fan control which you can tweak if
you want to and that basically under
high load when you're gaming and things
are getting hot it starts spinning up
the fans to keep it cooler
but already like if you're gaming
everything's up loud anyway you wouldn't
hear if the computer is loud you got the
you're blasting it absolutely okay so I
think we've got everything kind of set
where we want it by selecting the boot
the hard drive as the boot drive and to
be fair to sash and I know I poked fun
there does seem to be a bit of
interference on the mouse Thank You
Mouse so I hope that you're not gonna
have trouble with that at home
because how far is the mouse going to be
from the computer tower itself it's
Wireless right so it's hit or miss if
it's ten feet ten feet yeah you're only
about five feet right now but I've got
another wireless mouse there plus my
phone plus right there's some shakes in
the way so yeah it's possible that that
post-its on an ankle does that matter
yeah oh yes oh I'm so pleased
I saw something flash and it said - boom
- this is this looks like a black screen
at that block or that came right up now
video drivers are not running yet
because you can see how massive
everything is it looks like low
resolution like a little tablet or phone
screen something that so let's see if it
did actually load any
Bunte any Nvidia drivers do you I don't
see any hint that Nvidia is there so
there are some things and this is not a
tutorial on how to get Linux up and
running we've covered that so many times
before on the show what this is sasha
has now built a gaming rig mm-hmm we
know it's got a beautiful Nvidia card in
there it is a super powerful video card
that we need to install the propriety
proprietary drivers for in order to get
the best performance so I'll do that for
you
thank you stuff that you don't have to
worry about but know that you've got to
go through those steps you've got it and
she's installed the operating system she
built the computer pretty much herself
from scratch from the parts that Jeff
and I unboxed and there it is
it's up and running - I think that's it
what do you think I love it so I'm gonna
by installing the graphics drivers we're
gonna have better resolution we're going
to have better performance it's
prompting me that we need a steam user
all that kinda stuff or whatever it is
in the background is happening there
let's look at games what does it come
with so okay which are solitaire so
definitely a gaming rig DOSBox at you
later so that means you can install old
dos games so that's things like prince
of persia the class yes commander key
commander yes
Space Quest those things are all gonna
run under DOSBox Lutra siz another kind
of gaming platform so that you can you
can install games into the system and
play them it's an easy way to find a lot
of games that'll run in the system
mahjong mines play on Linux that is cool
play on Linux allows you to install
Windows games
o on Linux oh that's kind of like wine a
little bit it uses wine in the backend
but it has an interface to allow you to
install the games quite simply it's not
that with every game to be fair because
Windows games are built for Windows
right let play on Linux has cut out all
the complicated steps to making windows
games work on Linux and you don't have
to have Microsoft Windows installed see
that's good because this is our first
Linux computer excited about that yes so
can we say a little bit about why Linux
well cuz I have a slight Linux bias it's
an alternative for Microsoft Windows and
it's free you don't have to pay for
licenses you don't have to worry about
their spyware software monitoring you
and things like that and any of the kind
of caveats that you have with Microsoft
Windows they don't exist in Linux it's a
free operating system and it is
developed by people like ourselves who
just care about making something great
and distributing it and sharing it and
that's what Linux is it's a it's
something that you can get in on you've
got a there's that slight learning curve
because the interface is maybe a little
bit different but there's a lot of
effort that's been put into making that
learning curve as easy as possible I've
noticed on this version of Linux nasha
that it looks like Ubuntu mattei is what
it what it's running that is the
interface so this is matei not I was
expecting maybe no more
possibly unity but definitely no so nice
to see Mateo I like the interface a lot
steam is the next one steam we all know
and love Steve is something that you
sign up for an account then you can buy
games using all the time at home they
install you tell and tell us about steam
them because I'm not a gamer so how does
it work well so I mean when you've got
steam it's it's all-encompassing as far
as games library we can make purchases
also the games that you download a
criminal chronology chronology of your
library also you you know depending on
whether you really into competing with
other people you can earn badges and
stuff like that there's news features to
it with other games it's it's just
really it's a great compressed library
for keeping everything in one spot
that's at a library yeah you can just
find games it's there can install them
buy them and steam is cross-platform
that's correct if you are not interested
in taking this route and installing
Linux that's okay steam is available on
Microsoft Windows in fact if you install
it on Microsoft Windows and later switch
to Linux it's cross-compatible
so you're going just transfer over
that's right all right so that gives us
a good overview I think Sasha way to go
congratulations you've got a boon to
game is what I keep losing the name it's
game time game game pack game pack 16.4
I gotta come up with a rhyme for game
that no you don't date oh thanks
[Music]
[Applause]
