you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials in training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / linda
welcome back to new every day thanks so
much for tuning in we've been following
the Book of Jonah this is our last week
we're in chapter four it's only four
chapters long a wee little book in the
Old Testament of the Bible and we've had
some really great discussions so far
thank you so much for those of you who
have been following us on Facebook and
thank you also for those who are tuning
in through our website new everyday TV
we might as well just say thank you
right now to category 5 TV for hosting
this show to Robbie Ferguson our
director and producer to eco alkalines
the batteries that power our
audio-visual equipment and to our new
partner I'll let you talk about them Jen
yeah to the family christian store my
christian stores which is an online
bookstore music store for all things
christian so we encourage you to there
is an area on our website that you can
click on partners and you can check them
out there what they are is an
organization that has our business that
sends all of its proceeds to help
ministries helping widows and orphans so
we encourage you to check them out we
want to also say thank you to the
stitcher app for adding us to them so
that you can listen to us wherever
you're at so if you don't have time to
sit in front of your computer well then
get it on your phone and like us to go
new every day to go please so we
encourage you to share us to when you
like us on Facebook and we put up the
new post please hit share and share it
to your timeline so other people can
hear about us I know some people
sometimes struck a struggle with how do
I tell my friends what I believe and I
find that Facebook can be a wonderful
place that you can just share little
part parts of your faith and maybe
you're struggling with well how do I
tell my friend about this feel free to
share our show online and maybe one of
your friends will click on it and and
have a listen and now we'll open some
doors
for you because I plant sometimes people
struggle how do you share talking yeah
how do I start talking yeah so feel free
to use this that way and today's show
we're gonna look specifically at the
last chapter of John I yes and we titled
it how did how much fun i miss the boat
and so we're going to jump right in
reading from the new century version so
if I can just recap so the last chapter
Jonah preached the message to the
Ninevites yeah said hey in 40 days the
city is going to be destroyed if you
don't repent they repented it was
amazing God did not destroy the city yay
and so now chapter 4 chapter 4 and as we
read this I want you to ask the question
how am I like Jonah so that's the
question I'm going to read the passage
and as we go through it maybe even have
your Bible out or maybe have a notepad
um I want you to just to say how am I
like Jonah mm-hmm so as you read the
different things asking the question how
am I like Jonah so let's let's do it but
this made Jonah very unhappy and he
became angry he prayed to the Lord when
I was still in my own country this is
what I said would happen and that is why
I quickly ran away from tarsh to
Tarshish I knew that you are a God who
is kind and shows mercy you don't become
angry quickly and you have great love I
knew you would choose not to cause harm
so now I ask you lord please kill me it
is better for me to die than to live
then the Lord said do you think it is
right for you to be angry Jonah went out
and sat down east of the city there he
made a shelter for himself and sat in
the shade waiting to see what would
happen to the city the Lord made a plan
to grow quickly up over Jonah which gave
him shade and helped him to be more
comfortable Jonah was very pleased
but the next day when the Sun rose God
sent a worm to attack the plant so that
it died as the Sun rose higher in the
sky God sent a very hot east wind to
blow and then the Sun became so hot on
Jonah's head that he became very weak
and wished he were dead he said it is
better for me to die than to live but
God said to Jonah do you think it is
right for you to be angry about the
plant Jonah answered it is right for me
to be angry I'm so angry I could die and
then Jeff and then the Lord said you are
so concerned for that plant even though
you did nothing to make it grow it
appeared one day and the next day it
died then shouldn't I show concern for
the great city of Nineveh which has more
than 120,000 people who do not know
right from wrong and many animals too so
the question is Harry like Jonah God had
just shown incredible mercy to these
people and mercy to Jonah and that he
didn't die when he was thrown into the
sea and yet he was still so angry when
outside the city crossed his arms
plopped down to watch the show because
he was hoping that they would burn up
even though he was like cake did my job
preach the word now let's go and yet he
says but I know but you are full of
mercy and compassion so he knows this
side of God and yet the bitterness and
anger towards these people because of
their violence yes was still so
pervasive in his mind and in his heart
that he couldn't let it go I don't think
he'd get his mind around the fact that
God could forgive them yeah yeah like do
you not know how violent they are to us
do you not know like he is angry at God
because God is willing to forgive and so
the problem isn't God the problem is
Jonah yeah and I think sometimes that's
why we are so
ah we want to hold back our forgiveness
hmm well if I forgive that person is god
I'm gonna make it right or she's gonna
let them off the hook if I because
that's really what forgiveness is it's
taking them from our hook and putting
them on God's hook it's saying I are I
release this person to you I'm I will
not hold it against them yeah and I'm
releasing them to God yeah and so when
we forgive we're actually trusting that
the Lord is going to bring his justice
into the situation because we can't do
it right we want to think we can do it
right hello again do it right and so
here we are forgiveness is I choose as
an act of my will to forgive let's say
jovit let's look at Jonah to forgive the
Ninevites for what they've done to my
nation and I choose to put them on to
God's hook mmm God you deal with them
and so what I think Jonah is saying is I
knew you were going to do that that's
why I chose not to forgive them I'm
going to I'm when someone's got to be
angry at them because somebody's got to
be angry like he needs to fill in the
Justice side yes and so often we want to
take things into our own hands we want
to make it right we want to push that
kid down who just pushed you know
whoever now there's nothing wrong with
standing in the gap hey hey no but when
we seek out with a heart of vengeance
that's something totally different yeah
there's there's nothing wrong with
standing up and saying take it into a
kid who's being a bully hey like don't
down however words that that's wrong
it's something totally different to pick
up a rock and throw it back yeah that's
that's yeah and that's what vengeance
does and so Jonah is seeking vengeance
but God is seeking mercy
and that is so important to know that
when we come to God God isn't seeking to
smite you mmm he is seeking to receive
you and I think that's what baffles me
about the life of Christ the
juxtaposition between justice and mercy
they got in his in his just as being a
righteous judge we had sinned against
him the penalty needed to be paid for so
he was still the judgment need to be
paid for sin but in His mercy he came
down and became sin for us he who knew
no sin became sin so that we might
become the righteousness of God and it's
that juxtaposition of justice and mercy
that I think it's hard to understand
because we don't see a good
representation of that on earth you know
we look at Pollock we look at
governments we see we see them trying to
enact justice and yet we see these
corrupt we corrupt police officers we
see these corrupt people who are
supposed to enforce justice and they are
the ones in fact engaging in the
criminal activity and it's just
mind-blowing I mean I can kind of see
where Joan is coming from and being so
angry a number of weeks ago the Canadian
government engaged in this truth and
reconciliation committee and and wanted
to to reconcile with the Aboriginal
people of the Native American people of
Canada who they were just so wronged
when the residential schools were
established through the Catholic Church
and supported by the Canadian government
where the Canadian government in the
Catholic Church took Aboriginal children
away from their parents and raise these
the kids in these schools in terrible
deplorable conditions in that they were
abused emotionally sexually physically
it was awful it's a real black spot in
Canadian history and so since then and
it hasn't been even that long since the
last one closed just a few decades
they're trying to reconcile with these
people and it's the right thing to do
but I know people are having trouble
with it because it's like well if we
just if we just say if you say sorry and
we say that's okay does it just does it
forget that it happened doesn't just
wash it away and it doesn't cuz it
happened yeah the hurt was there and so
maybe Jonas experiencing know the hurt
is there I see the violence of these
people and just can't get over it so
what do you do with that Oh what do you
do with that this is a big scar because
he's doing what he thinks he needs to do
mmm he goes out he's like okay burn them
up right even though they had repented
okay now do what you're supposed to do I
think so often because we we get hurt we
get offended so deeply and we don't
trust god I think that's one of the
biggest things is that we don't trust
God to deal with it the way it needs to
be done right cuz we're seeing through
hurt glasses right yeah or so hurt that
we want them to hurt just as much as we
were hurt yeah in whatever way I think
one of the key things that we have to do
when we feel the bitterness or the anger
or the hurt because there's nothing
wrong with being angry that mean
something happened hmm it's what you do
in the anchor right even your anger do
not send that's what it fusion says in
your anger do not say yeah um and so
here we are what do you do when this
kind of is there and I honestly believe
that you have to go to god you have to
cry out to god you have to be like blunt
honest god this sucks these people did
this to me I am angry I but this is what
where it changes I need you to give to a
work in my heart yeah to being able to
forgive yes work in my heart yeah
because I can't see it the hurt is so
deep I can't see
mmm and God comes and I think that's
part of the problem is that we don't ask
God to change our own heart yeah towards
the person you can even say god I hate
that person thank God in His wonderful
gentle gentle merciful kindness comes to
us he says okay and even the situation
where you think I cannot yeah I think
differently about this person it cannot
it was the father who abused me and I
just cannot get over that yes God does a
miracle and you know I I've talked to so
many people now and even in my own life
how God has changed perspective he's
changed your heart you know my mom would
always say when you Harbor unforgiveness
it's like you drinking poison and
expecting the other person to die yes it
eats you up inside and a couple things
happened here when Jonah decided not to
witness and celebrate the mercy of God
for these people it rendered him inert
for further service because he sat down
with his arms crossed and the Sun
started scorching him and then he
couldn't experience joy through think
Thanksgiving yeah and it also it robbed
him emotionally so and he wanted to die
yeah so it he was he wasn't able to
serve he wasn't able to celebrate the
goodness of God he couldn't be thankful
and he was emotionally destitute so and
that came from unforgiveness the picture
that's coming to my mind right now is
this happens in church all the time hmm
we get offended in church we get hurt in
church somebody does something to us
that person repents God forgives them
God restores them there's blessing their
ministry starts to all of a sudden
they're on stage telling people about
the wonderful work that God's done in
their heart and you're sitting there
like this whoo arms crossed arms cross
dubstep yes like you can't you can't
enjoy the celebration because you're so
ticked off yeah how dare God forgive
that person do not know what they did to
me and yet there they are God has
forgiven them the church has accepted
them they're being released in ministry
wonderful things are happening and yet
you have closed yourself off to them and
a lot about root of bitterness to grow
in your heart right and and God says
like are you so concerned for that plant
even though you did nothing to make it
happen it appeared one day and the next
had died then shouldn't I show concern
for the great Steve identify it's like
God site should not show concern for
that person I made yeah first or second
Peter and Robbie will do his thing
says God is patient because he wants
everyone hmm to come to know him
everyone right and so who are we when we
get hurt or offended to say but not that
person not that person and certainly not
that person mm-hmm right and that's why
God is like I think he's trying to get
Jonah to be merciful to like to say you
know you're all about this plant that I
was here and gone and you did nothing
for and yet you're upset but don't you
don't even think about 120,000 people
yeah you know looking at that at that
situation it's it's amazing to see how
God cared for the great city of Nineveh
because there was 120,000 people and he
knew that they would turn to him and yet
he cares for the one for Jonah yes and
he has not forgotten him he is still I
feel I can always see Jonah sitting
there and God kind of sideling up to him
and sitting down beside him and saying
buddy and Don was like no way moving
away at God's getting closer Jonah's
moving away God's movie closer and Jonah
is basically saying I have every right
right he's claiming his right so he has
every right to be upset yeah and God is
like I think that breaks God's heart
when we chose choose to hang onto
unforgiveness towards people because
it's burns his grace and His mercy and
forgiveness right right so when we
choose not to forgive then that's like
saying god I don't care that you've
forgiven me I'm not going to forgive
hmm doesn't matter and I'm like that
puts us in a very very very bad spot
well Jesus told the parable about the
wicked servant who he was going to be
punished because he had all of these
outstanding debts and he he went to his
master and said there's no way I can pay
this debt we forgive me and he forget
forgave him as debt and said he owed
nothing but then he left the King's
Chamber king's court and went and
someone who owed him when he came and he
was angry at that person's I know you're
going to pay me every penny and I'm
going to put you in prison and your
wives and your kids are going to go to
prison too they're gonna be slaves as he
could pay every penny back and someone
heard of it and told the master who had
just forgiven this servant and the
master pulled him in and said what are
you doing I just forgave you this huge
debt I could have taken your house I
could have taken your family and yet you
don't extent extend the same forgiveness
to this person who wronged you and you
know what's easy for me to share that
but God please give me the strength to
forgive people when things come up in my
life I don't want to say that easily
because I know people are going through
hard things yes I know you're going
through hard things even as you're
watching this you're thinking about
someone who has hurt you and you haven't
forgiven them maybe you want to stay in
that better place but there is freedom
in Christ and I have experienced it and
I know what's true forgiveness is not
easy but it is a command and so I am
constantly reminded that whenever God
commands us to do something he walks
with us through it yeah so when he says
for gift that means that we are to
forgive it doesn't it doesn't say well
when it's easy or when it's convenient
it says forgive seventy times seven no
matter how many times that person comes
to you forgive them and there will be
times and people don't come to you and
you still have to forgive them hmm and
in order that you are set free from that
person
just releasing it to God say God I
chooses an act of my will to forgive
this person even if they're not right in
front of you even if they're not right
or they haven't said Jen I know I've
hurt you yeah I see it and maybe you
don't want to call it forgiveness maybe
you want to call it release them to God
so okay like if I have a family member
who has actually passed away but I know
that they've hurt me in the past do I
still need to forgive that person I
would say yes whether you want to say
forgive or release because some people
are all up in arms about well is that
really forgiveness if they don't come to
you something needs to be done to
actually cut the debt right it says
forgive us our debts as we forgive those
as we forgive our debtors right so
whether you want to say forgive us our
sins as we sin against others or whether
forgive us as we forgive those you know
yeah whatever version you want to read
there is a debt there is a trespass
somebody has crossed the line so how do
you actually get them back to where
they're supposed to be and I think the
key is to release them then forgive and
to forgive them I choose as an act of my
will to release this person to forgive
them to not hold it against them and
give them to God and leave room for him
to do what he's going to do and leave
room for him to do and it is not easy
some now sometimes it's easier than
others and sometimes when it has been
perpetual abuse or and from the closest
people that can be done I don't have a
concept of what that's like but I know I
can only imagine that is desperately
hard and I think that's where you have I
would encourage you to invite God into
say God I cannot forgive them on my own
mm-hmm but you command me to and you
said that I can do all things for you
because you get the strength mm-hmm so
we encourage you today to call on the
name of the hurt and say God I have to
forgive this person you might not even
want to I don't want to forgive this
person I have to forgive this person
right help me help me to forgive this
person and you might find yourself for
giving them again and again and again
you know I think well did my forgive
them and I often think that forgiveness
is a continual thing I have forgiven I
am forgiving and I will continue to
forgive because maybe it's a new idea
that's come up about that relationship
god I choose to forgive them when they
did this to me this is how it made me
feel and I choose to release that to you
would you come and heal the sore spot in
my heart hmm and I'm always amazed at
how God cons mm-hmm cuz we're when you
walk in obedience there is always
blessing there's always blessing it says
it very clear like I lay before you
curses and blessings that's what he says
in the Torah and so when we choose to
walk in obedience there will always be a
blessing when you choose to forgive that
person God will meet you in some amazing
miraculous way he will set you free in
ways that you can't even begin to
imagine because you're on this side of
the blessing mm-hmm so we're encouraging
you today Jonah chose to hold onto the
bitterness God chose to extend mercy
even to Jonah again so wherever you're
at we encourage you to surrender
yourself to the Lord yeah ask him what
is it that you're touching in my heart
who do I need to forgive where am i
holding bitterness against someone and
ask him to help you to forgive help to
help you extend the mercy to see how he
wants you to
see and Micah it says what does the law
the Lord require of you but to act
justly love mercy and walk humbly and I
think in that acting justly is like okay
be you can be upset that sin is there
but people are hurt and that you've been
hurt but to love mercy is celebrate the
mercy of God that you've received in
your own life and be able to extend it
to other people and walking humbly I
think it's saying I can't do it on my
own I meet God to do it can you pray for
us Jen word we cannot do this on your
own on our own we need you we need you
we need you we need you we need you we
made you we thank you that you are God
that when we call them the name of the
Lord will be saved and when we draw near
to you you will draw near to ask let me
seek you with all of our hearts you will
be found by us and so father we pray
that for our Watchers today those who
are viewing the show would you draw near
to them
would you speak your words of truth and
love and kindness into their hearts into
their innermost being would you help
them to release you the people I need to
release maybe they even need to release
themselves Lord there is nothing nothing
nothing nothing that separates us from
you you desire to be close to us help us
to reach out help us to receive your
grace and mercy so that we can in turn
extent that to others watch over our
viewers and keep them safe less than we
pray this in the name of Jesus to the
power of the Holy Spirit comment well
thanks for tuning in again and we sure
hope that you will tune in again next
week to new every day please check us
out on Facebook and we hope that you
have a great week yes
you
