we are now showcasing our biggest fans
on YouTube
[Music]
you big fan you you've commented on our
videos too that's how we can gauge
because when you start interacting with
us that's how we know that you're not
just a fan you are one of our biggest
fans on YouTube true so let's get right
into it first of all Daddy chase says
love the video please remove the
overpowering music but it detracts and
distracts I just wanted it to sound cool
alright daddy chase next up get a better
one
Michael Hawthorne what a DIYer channel
what three people presenting the one on
the right says nice at least three times
a minute the one on the left is sleeping
but the middle one is hyperactive sorry
wait what did you say I wasn't paying
attention terribly this guy says nice
three times a minute nice
this one sleeps for the record it looks
like I'm sleeping I'm actually like all
the way in the chat room I'm hyperactive
this is one of our biggest fans on
YouTube folks so they know what they're
talking about
Kyle Nash says stop calling it a
backplane okay so will Google this
backplane Oh a backplane is the back of
a t-shirt what's up a backplane is when
you have a backplane that you plug hard
drives into or other components like the
one we were demonstrating right thank
you for pointing out that Graham pink
ten says please learn how to pronounce
SATA that sata2 expecting SATA well they
could be or they could be expecting SATA
either one would be acceptable just like
SATA which stands for incidentally
serial ata
well would you say serial Atta or if you
had an IDE hard drive would we call it I
did here's what worries me about this
particular comment have they ever
watched me in the newsroom and any city
or town or village or any serial ata has
three accepted pronunciations SATA SATA
SATA that's it in some circles if you
say SATA or SATA you might get bullied
apparently according to our biggest fans
on YouTube if I say SATA I may also get
bullied nice dead zones has me can't
pronounce SATA lmao look pay attention
here we've already covered this virus Z
says fires that could be virus said okay
maybe I want to say virus Z now we're
gonna get a canadian-american let's get
into it
446 the girl is green screened in why is
she green screened in first of all I
think we need to get the context here
obviously we're looking at a reference
here to John 446 which says once more he
visited Kanna in Galilee where he had
turned the water into wine and there was
a certain royal official whose son lay
sick at Capernaum I'm not sure I get the
reference that said maybe every covered
Bible why are you green screened in
Sasha well cuz I the wine she lives on
the moon folks she lives on the moon why
would Sasha be green screened in when we
are all green screened in I just saying
so for the record for those of you
wondering why sometimes we accidentally
reach out a frame it happens there we go
it's because we have
two different cameras now - for the
record hi Sasha
and when I look at Robbie it doesn't
even look like I'm looking at you
because we have two different cameras I
have to look at a chair in order to make
eye contact with Sasha yeah see these
are all the things that for some reason
I think people take for granted when it
comes to making your show is that it's
not always just a single camera there's
a lot more that goes into the show like
there's absolute Amber's around me right
now mm-hmm and light nice the lure and a
green screen behind each of us with me
mark a the brick as a whole as a mark a
or marker it's mark a SATA should we say
yeah will Vera says I pay for you to
bread so I don't have to watch stinking
commercials your channel should be
banned you tuck system Chum adocus dome
you didn't turn it on turn on dome Dava
oh oh oh oh seven man this is annoying
shameless I am sad - I saw that thing
motion Ali Wahid says I thought this was
Linus tech show - like like grab a
blanket and Linux is an operating system
that we love and Linux tech show Linux
tech show comm is part of the category 5
TV network so welcome I know you were
looking for the Linus tech show but this
is the Linux tech show with a slight
exactly the next Halloween episode we're
all thinking about the Charlie Brown
Chris yes Bob you dress up as Charlie
Brown
have my blue blankies lioness and Sasha
could hold a football you can go to kick
it I've got one more I've got one more
we have another big fan another comment
from one of our biggest fans on YouTube
who took the time to send this into a
scooter FX says almost everything about
this video is unpleasant but the music
made me rage quit I've already dealt
with the music issue what I'm through
essence we never figured it out I don't
speak French so I'm assuming that's a
friendship but thank you to all of our
biggest fans on YouTube for taking the
time to post your comments we love the
YouTube community we know that you're
all here with good intentions as are we
and we hope that you enjoy the show I'm
just gonna tell a joke a week's Garbi
liked it
[Applause]
