hello and welcome to another episode of
new everyday I'm Carrie and I'm Jen and
today we're going to be talking about
Luke chapter 5 yo what up we're talking
about let's wrap it out down with it
you
alright and welcome to the show we're so
glad that you're tuning in and Luke
chapter 5 begins like this one day as
Jesus was teaching the people the
Pharisees and teachers of the law from
every town in Galilee in Judea and from
Jerusalem were there the Lord was giving
Jesus the power to heal just then some
men were carrying on a mat a man who was
paralyzed they tried to bring him in and
put him down before Jesus but because
there were so many people they could not
find a way in so they went up on the
roof and lowered the man on his mat
through the ceiling into the middle of
the crowd right before Jesus seeing
their faith jesus said friend your sins
are forgiven the Jewish teachers of the
law and the Pharisees thought to
themselves who is this man who's
speaking as if he were God only God can
forgive sins but jesus knew what they
were thinking and said why are you
thinking these things which is easier to
say your sins are forgiven or to say
stand up and walk but I'll prove to you
that the Son of man has authority on
earth to forgive sins so jesus said to
the paralyzed man I'd tell you stand up
take your mat and go home at once the
man stood up before him before them
picked up his mat and went home praising
God all the people were fully amazed and
began to praise God they were filled
with much respect and said today we have
seen amazing things mmhmm yeah like
every time I read that passage so many
things strike me I think one of the
first things as I was just reading it
right then was the fact that Jesus
actually told the man to go home why
does that surprise you well he did say
stay with me like he said you saw what I
did go home take what I've done for you
now go home but Jesus isn't calling
people to you know just come and stay
come and stay come and stay coming you
know hear my teaching here my teaching
here my teaching come here my teaching
now
and tell other people about what what
has happened to you tell your story go
home that's like um when Jesus came to a
certain area and there was a guy who had
been possessed by demons and he was
bonkers yeah and jesus healed him and he
was in his right mind and he wanted to
the people of the town were scared and
they were like Jesus you better go but
this guy said he wanted to stay with him
but jesus said no go back to your own
family go back to an area yeah so that
he could share yeah I just find Jesus
you know as I reading this passage Jesus
is you know he he heals him and then
he's like now go and tell about it like
and it challenges me to say okay am I
telling people about what God is doing
in my life how Jesus has healed me for
the purpose that then they will go and
meet Jesus and be healed and then he'll
say to them now you go home tell people
about what I've done for you and then
they'll come so it challenges me to say
am I telling my story am I telling my
story about what Jesus has done in my
life that's something I didn't I never
caught in that in this passage and is
Luke chapter 5 4 17 to 26 that's what
Jed was reading what I find interesting
about this is that in another area is
mark mark yep mark chapter 2 I think the
friends who they had they had to have
faith to that Jesus was going to do this
because if he was a paralytic you
probably didn't have any money to pay
these guys off to say I coming bring me
to him yeah but they exhibited the same
faith that as a man who was coming and
willing to be healed but they actually
dug through the roof to lower the guy
down in front of Jesus yes and that's
amazing to me in front of all these
people so did
matter they saw the end result of him
being healed as more important than
whatever anyone else thought yeah about
them that they cared about as that much
for their friend yeah and and yet well
I'm reading that passage I'm thinking
like what you just said that they dug
through the roof right they are
persevering through to the end and I'm
looking at it thinking I'm being the guy
underneath the roof hey Mike ah exactly
like how dare you I got here on time I
am front row I pay good money for these
seats Jesus is right there because it
says he let them down in the middle of
the people right in front of Jesus and
I'm thinking to myself how would the
Pharisees or those people who got there
first how would they have felt like
would they have felt like yes Jesus and
I think sometimes we can miss the
miracle because we're her or offended so
here they dug through the roof yeah they
lowered Jesus yeah and we're I'm haha
this person he just didn't pay for those
seats he can't even walk he had to get
his friends to come and bring him who
how dare he interrupt what Jesus is
doing for me and I i I've thought about
it a lot as people who are not like me
who come into the church or new people
who come into church and you know they
get attention or they have special gifts
or whatever and then all of a sudden the
drip the focus might be off of me or
maybe the ministry starts going in a
different direction is oh who do they
think they are like they've only been in
this church for six months so they've
only been here for I've been here for
you know but if seven years you know I
have been faithful to this church you
know not that I'm 57 I'm just using a
random number um but I think people are
cheesed like they are upset because
what they think should be the order of
things has been interrupted what's
interesting here is that Jesus even
shakes up the order of things that the
people who brought the guy we're
thinking of in the first place because
the first thing that Jesus says when
Jesus saw their feet this is verse 20 he
said friend which I love so
automatically welcomes in loves him yeah
doesn't say you know isn't shocked by it
but calls him friend yeah your sins are
forgiven period yeah yeah like that was
the priority Jesus saw past him being
paralyzed because that the outward man
wastes away but it's the inward man that
is renewed day by day it's the inward
man that that Jesus focuses on you
friend your sins are forgiven that's the
most important thing is forgiving sins
yeah you you don't have to we don't have
to have legs that work to be useful to
the kingdom we don't have to have eyes
that see we don't have be able to talk
we don't have to be smart we don't have
to be whatever but you have to have your
sins forgiven by Jesus himself and when
we turned to him and asked for
forgiveness that's when he welcomes us
in now question Carrie when it says the
Jewish teacher of the law and the
Pharisees thought to themselves who is
this man who is speaking as if you were
God only God can forgive sins what is
your take on that um I flipped it
because I struggle with that say what
why do you struggle with it because it
goes on to say you know is it easier to
say your sins are forgiven or just or to
say stand up and walk so i'll say stand
up and walk i don't know how many times
i've read it and I'm like okay so only
God I understand that only God can
forgive sins like because of what Jesus
has done but Jesus is God yes this is
him saying I
I am God so why does he compare it
though to the like which is easier stand
up and walk or your sins are forgiven it
if forgiven like part of me wants to say
is he saying there is a link between sin
and physical illness see I didn't read
it that way at all because I look at the
man who was born blind and the disciples
said well who sinned this man or his
parents and Jesus was like neither he
said this is that this happens that God
might be glorified so I doesn't don't
necessarily make that connection here I
don't know if I'm right or not which is
easier to say your sins are forgiven or
to say you get up and walk is he saying
like what do you think there well this
is part of my struggle like is there
because I think sometimes we can have
physical physical illness because of sin
I think it's both aunt I think not
always do we have a physical ailment and
it's related to sin I also know that in
heaven there will be no illness and so
illness is a result of the fall and the
sinful world that we live in and not
every situation is the same so I think
sometimes we we are ill because of
certain sins and you know and yet I
think sometimes it's like the man who
was born blind this is for the glory of
God so that he can be revealed but in
any case so I'm wondering if whatever if
you know cuz it says you know his sins
are forgiven us or forgiven get up or
stand up and walk I'm wondering was
there sin in the man's life well yeah
cuz he said your sins are forgiven and
so as a result of his sins being
forgiven it loosed whatever it was that
was keeping him paralyzed and he was
able to rise up and walk
there's another passage in the Old
Testament where it says bitterness
causes our bones to be brittle and it's
like interesting and you know throughout
it's interesting to read and you're the
nurse and so as I say this then like
we've talked about how when people are
feeling whatever in their lives that
sometimes will come out in their body
and so I think there is a connection
between what we are experiencing on our
lives and how our body responds to it so
that's why I think I often struggle with
those two phrases yes he is forgiving
and so Jesus has has wiped out his sins
so as a result he could stand up and
walk so the flip side was well if Jesus
has said stand up and walk so it's like
it's implicit then that Jesus forgave
his sins because it was his sin that was
keeping him on the mat hmm I know that's
why I sort of Russell with this passage
um well I don't know that I agree and
that is ok let us know what you think
category five nope that's our host new
every day dot TV is our website and if
you go to contact then you can send us
an email or you can visit us on Facebook
and I'd love to hear it what you think
about this as well maybe because Jesus
had performed other miracles physical
mirror is he saying like it's the same
for me to heal physically and I am also
have the power to do I have the
authority to forgive sins I have the
authority in the physical realm of
authority in the spiritual realm to
forgive sins right I know of one a
personal incident of a woman who came
for physical healing
and I said what is the problem and she
said I have this pain in my back would
you pray for me and I felt like I should
ask her if she's you know carrying a
burden air shoot and just ask her what
was going on in her life and she said
well my son is moving out and this one
is moving away and this son is getting
married and I'm just feeling very upset
and worried I'm like have you released
them like are you relying on your
sentence your son's to take care of you
and as a result now that they're moving
away you have a fear that's coming in
that is like almost crippling you are
paralyzing you she was like I've never
thought okay so she forgave her sins and
release that or forgave her son's and
release them and and that I said so how
are you feeling it's just like the pain
is gone so I guess that's a personal
experience where I have seen like where
sin in her life that whole control
holding on was causing a physical
ailment on her own body but I don't
think every single ailment is like that
and so yeah that's that's a tricky space
because I look at i read about someone
like Annie Johnston Flint who and she
was orphaned and that she went through
foster care she eventually was with the
Flint family this is back i think i want
to say late 1800s Early 1900s i'm not
sure but Robbie Ferguson will magically
put a link to her biography and then you
can find out for yourself and was she at
a very young age was riddled with
rheumatoid arthritis she was bedridden
she was in a lot of pain all at the time
and yet God used that trial in her life
to produce some of the most amazing
biblical poetry like inspired by about
the Bible and hymns about overcoming
suffering and looking to Christ through
our south
ring and anticipating his return and
anticipating heaven when she's going to
be made new and those those poems and
those hymns have been so meaningful to
so many people myself included and had
she not gone through those trials and
that fruit wouldn't have been me I
totally agree CS Lewis says that pain is
God's megaphone to the world and through
suffering is often when we cry out to
the Lord and because it's so real and
yeah I believe that God uses whatever
situation we're in and sometimes want
some of the most painful ones is where
he really gets our attention and I was
just watching movie this past week and
one of the quotes in it was most
atheists were believers at one time hmm
but because they had a run-in with the
Lord he didn't answer a prayer he didn't
come through in their pain well then God
can't possibly be real and so they
turned hmm and I think we have to be
careful in our pain and our suffering
that we stay as close to God as possible
that you know as this woman her soul
cried out to God in the midst of her
pain and her suffering and as a result
was a blessing God used her
circumstances to draw others to him so
just like this man in and Luke his
circumstances challenged his friends
actually they motivated his friends I
think sometimes you know circumstances
happened like to this man who was
paralyzed well he had to rely on his
friends so all of a sudden compassion
and mercy and commitment is welled up in
those four friends that would never have
come unless they this had happened to
the paralyzed man because he was
paralyzed
who fed him who cared for his needs like
who gave him a cup of course it was
those friends or his family and it was
those friends that were stirred by what
Jesus was doing that were like okay
let's pick up our friend so it was like
a both and it was like the friend was
stirring those things up the paralyzed
man but also the the friends were
motivated by faith in what they had seen
Jesus do to like they needed each other
and then so they were brought to Jesus
because of what happened to that man
yeah or else they probably wouldn't have
been there that day who know yeah so and
the mayor of fact that they didn't give
up they dug through the roof wasn't like
oh it's busy there's a lineup forget it
yeah they persevered like and it doesn't
say they own the home so you're the yard
digging through an insurance covered I
just it challenges me as a friend to say
how far am I willing to go that my other
friends meet Jesus that they experienced
his Healing Touch like am I willing to
go out of my way cuz like I don't it
says they dug through the roof so but it
was a roof so it was that mean like it
was hard because we often are told in
Bible times that they could it was
almost like another room sometimes that
they would go up there and raster yeah
whatever and so when I think dog I think
like shovels through yeah so I am it
challenges me as a friend to say what I
really go that far would I inconvenience
myself would I get dirty what I to the
point of exhaustion right I'm carrying
this man I'm digging through the roof
I'm like I'm physically becoming tired
so that this person can meet Jesus like
it's very challenging
um I just you know I just think about
when kids call up for a ride to youth
and they don't know Jesus but they want
to order on their way to Jesus and I'm
like oh I'm gonna have to get in the car
right there in other end of town Oh
gasps time I'd find someone else to go
with me just because of the whole plan
to protect and making sure we're doing
things safely and then if this kit comes
to know Jesus like that's the thought
that comes into my mind then all of it
everything's worth is worth it I'm a
very small price to pay like you know
what's what ass yeah but what's money
yeah you know and God can repay that
like he can bring it back to you if he
wants to yeah yeah cuz he has his own
economy like he just works things out in
a way that we just go oh no he says he
owns the cattle on a Thousand Hills so
he didn't provide yeah a hamburger uh or
more anyways what do you think about
when the Pharisees and the teachers will
all begin thinking to themselves who is
this fellow speaks blasphemy who can
forgive sins but God alone and Jesus it
says jesus knew what they were thinking
and asked why are you thinking these
things in your hearts he knew what they
already knew what they were thinking
mm-hmm
it's great question
like what are you thinking like are you
I'm thinking that you can't hide
anything from Jesus hmm that he already
knows and yet he consistently told the
Pharisees throughout the Gospels what
the truth is he didn't stop telling them
they were always around and he still
showed the mercy and still yeah shared
with them so and you can't hide anything
like well we spoke about this in a
previous show out of the overflow of the
heart the mouth speaks but your face
speaks like so often I've said to let me
rearrange my face hold on a second I
couldn't let me just like all right
let's try this again oh I'm really sorry
to hear that but but you knew what was
inside my heart by the way i first
responded and so jesus knew like he just
knew he could tell by the way ah I think
he watched people like he would have
seen the dirt coming down but I thought
oh god he's also gone and knows
everything the end from the beginning so
it's like he knew mm-hmm what was in
their hearts because of their actions
because of the way they saw um and you
know that spirit of discernment like we
just he knew he yeah you can't hide
anything from God yeah and maybe that's
maybe that's where we can wrap it up
today in that it's okay to have
questions about Scripture and to ask God
questions and he already knows what
you're thinking anyways yeah so I don't
know I just I always really appreciate
just reading a passage of Scripture and
just talking about it talking about why
it's been meaningful and then praying
about it and who knows God how God will
bring that scripture to mine later on in
the week yeah hey and so we encourage
you to do that we read through a luke
five it's also in Matthew and in mark
and
ask the Lord what it is that you would
he would have you to learn from this
passage so do you want to end in prayer
they're done sure alright let's pray
Heavenly Father we thank you so much
that your word is living and active
sharper than any double-edged sword
piercing between bone and marrow so we
asked for your truth this morning Lord
to penetrate our hearts what is it that
you want us to take from this passage
and apply to our lives would you show us
where we have doubted that you really do
see everything would you show us where
we've doubted that you are able to heal
would you show us where we have failed
to go that extra mile to bring a friends
to know you would you remind us that you
call us friend and that when we come to
you you accept us we thank you for your
grace and your love and your mercy and
thank you that you make crooked things
straight
as you did for that paralyzed man you
are good you thank you Jesus in your
name hey thanks again for tuning in and
we hope to see you next week at the same
time at new everyday dot TV please send
us a message on facebook send us an
email would be really great to hear from
you you want to thank category 5 TV and
robbie ferguson our director and
producer for helping make this show
possible and thank you to Kiko alkalines
they are the batteries that power our
camera and our microphone all right
thank you Dave gonna have a great week
see you later
