welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5e weeks
and now let's get hello welcome to
episode number 198 of category 5
technology TV the shortest episode of
category 5 ever due to technical
glitches off the off the bat hey
everybody how's your week going Oh crazy
busy yeah crazy crazy busy I thought it
was late today and that turns out you
guys were waiting for me waitin yeah
we're just kind of kicking back and
wasn't doing anything in particular
those who are watching backstage pass
know that I was just that it's just kind
of lounging on fri drinking beer yeah
just hanging out eating cookie hit the
cookies once i got here obviously no i
eat them all yeah wow so tonight is a
little different format sort of
unintentionally but it just happens this
way and sometimes there are things that
are out of our control but our
commitment is to of course broadcast
every single week even if it means it's
extremely extremely difficult even if it
means starting the show a half hour late
now for those of you who are watching
this through our SAS feeds or after the
fact through on demand make sure you
make a note that this show has started
at its now 7 28 p.m. so if you're
following along in the chat logs so
you're following along finding out
what's being said our time mark right
now is 729
to be able to follow through so ten
minutes into the show it'll be just
about 740 and your chat logs and that
will help you to determine where you're
at okay tonight we're looking at Zorin
OS to continue our series on our linux
distributions just kind of looking at
some of the distributions that are
available to give you a chance to to see
them without actually having to install
them we'll bring them up on the screen
you can have a look so if you've been to
our website if you have you noticed the
thermometer they are on our website this
week big news if you bring up category 5
TV
we have officially received 102 percent
of the required donations in order to
replace the server the microphones all
that kind of stuff which is incredible
and yeah thank you so much everybody for
your support as we are a little bit over
and as some donations still come in and
we we definitely welcome your donations
even still those donations are going to
go towards further upgrade in the studio
fixing up things little odd things that
we weren't expecting I had to purchase a
video card for example which wasn't
originally a part of our plan but we did
have to purchase a video card for the
server because the integrative video was
not sufficient for broadcasting so so
tonight we're broadcasting on the new
server for the first time and it's it's
kind of I'd say sixty seventy percent
where it needs to be to for me to
consider it a hundred percent stable and
ready to go but that's where you know
it's like we've it's been crunch time
it's we ran into some problems on the
weekend I actually had to rebuild it
twice and it turns out that the hard
drives that came in the server had were
failing or there was something wrong
with them and so having installed the
operating system and all of our
broadcasting sweet then trying to figure
out what Y is nothing really working the
operating system would boot everything
would come up and Wirecast would load
but it was dropping frames and it was
really really poor quality and I just
couldn't get it to work and so so then I
tried it on different hard drives and of
course that meant rebuilding it again
lots of work just rebuilding the
software anyways because fortunately the
hardware was pretty much together so and
it seems that that things are working
fairly well we'll we'll keep an eye on
it over the next few weeks as we kind of
tweak things and improve the performance
and tweak the way that Wirecast
interacts with our videos so but very
exciting for us and I thank you for all
your support microphones did come in but
unfortunately that wasn't on the plate
as
as time to set that up so Krista is
using the old lapel tonight yeah I know
I know it's not quite as pop star ish as
my microphone not at all but it's still
my gosh so natural pretty it used to be
it used to be all right viewer points
this week Bry Murray who is lounging in
his living room on a 37 inch TV
connected to his boxee box he watches
category 5 technology TV and is wearing
a radio caroline t-shirt he wanted me to
mention as well let's see here now
everything is different now I'm pushing
buttons and it's not doing what it used
to do so there's Brian aha that's great
comfy he looks extremely comfortable and
I do notice the Fanta as well as a
single chocolate bar in the bottom of a
bowl and I think it's just one I think
no I think he actually saved that for us
like it's a KitKat or something but
surprisingly there's a little bit of
healthy foods going on here too I
decided there's there are some oranges
and so that's a that's good yeah Brian
thank you so much for sending in the
picture we will give you a hundred
viewer points for that and thanks for
watching category-five TV looks like a
comfortable setup and i love that the
boxee box is letting you watch category
5 TV on your on your LCD TV then we have
again buttons aren't quite what they
were eight miles from TJ is watching on
a 32 inch LCD TV and enjoin category 5
that way and there is in the office with
a great big screen for 100 viewer points
and thank you for your for your
submission there that again is eight
miles from TJ who sent that n if you'd
like to get some viewer points just like
these two guys who got 100 points each
tonight make sure you
send us an email with an attachment of
you watching category 5 TV both of our
guys tonight are really like their
laid-back they got their feet up
relaxing time it's a very relaxing time
I don't know if you noticed or not but
it's like the stressful day and you just
you know throw your feet up yeah just
enjoying the show taking it easy
category five makes sense so put your
feet up send us a picture will give you
some points also we'll just give a quick
shout out um don't let us know that we
have a new live viewer tonight Dominic
hey Dominic sorry we're so tardy we're
not usually we're not usually it's been
quite a fun week i'm still getting
things set up as we're talking it's like
okay we really gotta go like i mean at
this point we're a half-hour show and so
i'm actually still setting things up so
what do you have coming up in the news
while i'm prepping all your camera
angles and getting all that set up for
it sorts of wonderful things so coming
up in the newsroom could google+ finally
be Google's into social networking a new
pen can be used to draw actual
functional circuitry Apple finally fixed
a vulnerability in its development
website that was reported in April a new
downloadable book for from and about
Creative Commons is now or is available
now stick around these stories are
coming up in how long are they coming up
in say 30 minutes four minutes okay no
no we'll have to figure that out so stay
tuned yeah pretty much go straight from
the teaser right into the news there you
go alright I think everything set there
we go fantastic well
so your questions will will hit a couple
of questions if we can tonight of course
a little bit off as far as schedule goes
because of the fact that we're working
with new hardware and trying to get
everything set up so tonight you'll
actually be seeing as we as we set up
some camera angles and things in
Wirecast Neil to experience that with us
next week hopefully we'll be right back
on track and on the following week is
our 200th episode Holies Foley's uh no I
don't believe it mm-hmm all right so you
want to want to grab a few of your
questions yeah I'd love to everyone
awesome first question from John our
streets says hi Robbie I have been asked
to install windows XP on a computer with
a boon to 10 point oh four already
installed the drive is a single terabyte
drive so there's plenty of room to make
a partition and install XP I have
installed windows with a boom tube
before but never in that order how can I
do this without wiping out grub or is
there a way to reinstall grub after i
installed windows i could back up his
computer and start over but i really
don't want to do that i'm pretty sure
you would know if this canner can't be
done thanks for all your help it can be
done but the catch-22 is that grub isn't
the hard one to get to replace what
happens though is if you install windows
windows XP it's going to install the
windows boot loader and the windows boot
loader is not going to see Linux so then
you run into the problem okay then you
reinstall grub over the Master Boot
Record and then you lose the windows
boot loader so I'm not sure how well
that will work as Dave may do is saying
in the chatroom you're always best to
start with windows and then go with
Linux afterwards because what would
happen then is that it sometimes can tap
into the windows boot loader leaving it
intact or it does a better job of
detecting things so that said here's
what I would do I would get a copy of
clonezilla we'll post a link in the in
the show notes for episode number 198
and clonezilla will allow you to
create a copy an image of that hard
drive it's clonezilla org and it's a
free download with that cloned image of
your hard drive it's a full backup so if
you completely destroy everything you
can restore the clone and everything's
back to the way it was so you don't have
to worry about anything just make sure
you do an image of the entire hard drive
not the partitions do the whole hard
drive so that it gets everything so then
try installing your windows XP it's
going to overwrite the bootloader of
course it's going to mess up everything
you're not going to be able to boot
linux anymore and then get on to the
super grub disk website which is now the
version that you want to get here is
called a rescatar and rescue tux is
going to it says fix grub to fix grub
really what that's going to do is it's
going to reinstall grub on that system
once you've got windows XP installed
again because you're going to have a
backup at that point it's not going to
be a problem because if something
happens and things don't work out you're
okay and you can restore everything back
to the way it was and try again but it's
a little it's a little risky or going
that route and I think that's exactly
why you're asking is because of that but
resk attacks should be able to put the
boot loader back together but whether or
not windows will accept being able to
boot that's that's where the problematic
issues can occur so but give that a try
alright let us know how it goes I'd love
to hear from you love to know and again
i'll post links for you in the in the
show notes for 198 with that super grub
disk org and clonezilla org are the two
tools that i'd recommend for you tonight
cool great thanks for the question jump
into another one here this is hi Robbie
and team I came across this application
whilst doing some research on the
internet it's compatible with a boon to
and it makes life easy to change the
boot splash screen so for anyone not
used to the command line for changing
the Plymouth boot splash screen then
this application will help anyone
install new plymouth themes or change
the plymouth theme with ease there's the
link there oh its horn dash 0 s dot webs
com / splash screen manager HTM L what
i'll do is i'll post the link that that
Scorpio 55 is recommending i'll post
that in the show notes for episode
number 198 for you interesting that
you're finding some cool tools on the
silver and os website is a resource they
do have some pretty cool software and
we're going to be looking at the OS in
just a few minutes time what I'm
actually doing over here and Krista can
see this but the viewers can't is I'm
just setting up your camera angles and
with wire cast which is the software we
use to broadcast what I'm able to do is
move things around like that so now what
I've done is that I'm Robbie Ferguson
well now you're Robbie first yeah so now
I'm going to click on my what's called
the checker or the lower third there and
I'm going to change my name to your name
okay and I'm going to just reposition
that a little bit this is all done
through wire cast which is available at
cat five dot TV / Wirecast okay so
positioning there is is pretty decent
and then let's see what I want to do is
I want to add a new media piece here
which is going to be again a text layer
let's see what I can come up with there
are tons to choose from Wirecast has all
these kinds of things right so you can
place these over top and put text on top
of them so what i want what i would like
for the news is something kind of along
these lines right looks kind of cool
kind of perfect for the category 5
newsroom but of course it's not the
right size so I'm going to you know
adjust it move it around whatever I need
to do so that you can see that we're
we're actually live on the air and able
to do this right while we're
broadcasting which is really really cool
I mean to be able to do that with with a
tool like wire cast is fantastic if you
ever get into you know if you've got an
interest in broadcasting than then this
would be a tool that I would strongly
recommend back to our shot here we're
going to add some text
there we go just as simple as that now
I'm just kind of throwing that in really
really quick just so that it's in there
and good to go but then what we want to
be able to do is we want to do what what
we do during the show which is to add a
desktop presenter window so desktop
presenter is like a remote desktop for
Wirecast traditionally when you're
broadcasting video you used to have to
use like a video output from a computer
and put that into a video capture card
in the broadcast system and use it like
a camera with wire cast with desktop
presenter we're able to bring up any
computer screen note that mine is in a
boon to computer and I'm loading desktop
presenter perfectly threw wine and and
that supports you know everything that
you see me doing here you know if I want
to do my 3d effects everything is
supported it's no problem there's no we
used to have a problem with Flickr and I
was able to figure that out as well so
that's very cool so what I do during a
live show is I have the pictures for the
news and they are loaded from my
computer through desktop presenter so
there's the the first story that the
crystals mentioned in there so back at
this shot what we'll do is we'll create
a new media layer and we'll put that
right at the very very top and we're
going to change that to and I know you
can't see it but you can understand and
grasp what it is that I'm doing now what
I've done is I've put that layer on top
so now I'm going to resize that which
again you can't see me doing but I'm
triggering the element as soon as i'm
done so that you can actually see so now
I've resized that I'm going to
reposition it
ok and then because we're no longer
using a wide screen monitor for that
particular system I'm going to do some
cropping at the top
and then some cropping at the bottom
there we go so now we've got our basic
layout set up for a basic news segment
that we'll be able to do tonight cool
well that's all done through wire cast
and done right here live so if you'd
like to take over yeah yeah jump
straight into it now that everybody
understands what is involved in setting
up a shot and wire cast and yeah I'll
let you take it away we don't have music
yeah but that will be here is maybe you
could sing the intro into the news
yourself dan didn't didn't didn't didn't
get in little italy and didn't didn't
didn't it happen yes okay the category
five TV news room should i right i don't
want to make you laughter in the news
don't online search giant google has
launched a new social networking website
in his latest attempt to take on
facebook which now claims more than 500
million users google+ allows individuals
to share photos messages and comments
but also integrates the company's maps
and images into the service it also aims
to help users easily organize contacts
within groups some analysts say google
has simply reproduced features of
facebook while adding a video chat
function but Vic Gundotra senior vice
president of engineering at Google said
online sherry needs a serious rethink so
it's time we got started after a number
of failed attempts to tackle social
media could Google Plus be the one email
your thoughts to the newsroom at
category 5 TV scientists in the US have
created a roller a rollerball pen that
can be used to draw functioning circuit
boards the research team at the
University of Illinois used conductive
silver ink to sketch electrical circuits
on paper wood and other flexible
services although similar pens have been
available for a number of years their
ink tends not to be bendable when dry
most of the work in this area is focused
on developing inkjet printers capable of
creating circuits that's cool that's
pretty cool the hacker group that played
a vulnerable
on an apple development website a
vulnerability they felt sorry the
vulnerability that could have led to
phishing attacks against Mac OS X iPad
and iPad developers says Apple finally
fixed the hole that was identified two
months ago why jan told Apple about the
arbitrary URL redirect vulnerability and
cross-site scripting issue on April 25th
morning it could lead to phishing
attacks on developers using the website
Apple acknowledged acknowledged why
Jan's information on April 27th but
didn't fix the hole that frustrated ygn
which news reporters know it would go
public with the information in a short
period of time even if Apple didn't
correct the problem one day after news
reports on a situation Apple fix the
problem I think you put that one in
there just you know just to stick it to
me Apple has problems just like just
like windows moving on the campaign has
been launched to help you avoid breaking
the law when they put breaking law when
they post pictures music and videos
online copyright group Creative Commons
has published a guy to identify material
that can be used freely without getting
sued it also advises individuals how to
protect content they have made
themselves some legal experts say that
the system is a stopgap measure and and
want to see copyright laws radically
reformed around 500 million piece of the
work are currently covered by Creative
Commons Creative Commons chief of staff
Lisa green said that the campaign was
partly aimed at combating the myth that
supported giving everything away for
free and says rather than giving away
mostly we talked about enable easily
enable illegal sharing and enabling
remix download a free copy of the book
at the power of open org cut the full
stories at category 5 TV / newsroom the
category 5 TV news room is researched by
roy w nash with contributions of our
community of viewers if you have a new
store you think is worthy of honorary
mention email newsroom at category 5 TV
for the category five qts newsroom I'm
crystals thanks Krista oh
time you canna this episode of category
5 technology TV is brought to you by
pogoplug and you'll find them at cat
five TV / pogoplug as well as planet
calypso join me in the massive
multiplayer online game excited to see
you there and join our society there
it's cat five dot TV / Calypso to
download the game and install that and
we'll be able to play through the
internet speaking of the pogoplug mm-hmm
what would a half hour show be without
giving away a pogoplug so what I would
like you to do is at the end of
tonight's show email contest at category
five dot TV pick a random number page
weymouth just four digits of randomness
or digit 7328 7328 that's your random
code and multiply it by two oh it's a
skill testing question and add one and
add one an email that to contest at
category 5 TV and we're gonna do it raw
next week for that so it's very cool cat
5 TV / pogoplug to find out more about
them we already said greets to one of
our new viewers in the chat room but if
you're new here and we haven't said
hello make sure you let us know and say
robbie f or krista are you krista
tonight I'm just cry statista tonight I
did such a rush just Krista Krista
alright so if you say our name will turn
red on our magical screens mm-hmm how
cool is that looking at the chat room
hey everybody Scorpio 55a gamoto GAD
will Smitty Smith at moto did I already
say your name i did but i'll say it
twice
I think I said it three times well now
you did yeah yes Dave may do has been
following me on twitter at Robbie
Ferguson and talking to me about the new
server and everything there appreciate
your support and encouragement through
that whole thing thanks Becca awesome
good to see everybody John Dominic and
if you'd like to join us in the live
chat room only have to do is get onto
category 5 TV join the chat room and
also you can get onto free note if
you're using a IRC chat client and you
can join the category 5 chat room cool
well this is the quickest moving show of
I think so however but what I would like
to do tonight is we're going to take a
quick look at Soren OS and I think if
i'm not mistaken i think this was
scorpio 55 who put us on to this
particular distribution and honestly
let's see here math man is saying that
that he follows follows me on twitter
via a and it disappeared that's what
happens from that just say his sony dash
something that mm-hmm sorry i don't know
it sounds cool sounds speedy
but it says sony my dash sony dash dash
from sony oh it's an a personal internet
viewer you know i was looking at some
android devices recently and the whole
idea of internet in the palm of your
hand and even with the ipod touch that i
use it's so nice to just be able to like
sometimes when when the kids are playing
video games on my wife's computer she'll
use the ipod touch to get on facebook
and stuff so it's like there's so much
you can do with it that's kind of cool
looks a little bit like a tablet i think
so you follow me on twitter using that
do you watch the show on that be
interested to know and would certainly
picture it that's exactly what I was
gonna say we're signed tune tonight yeah
it's like that it is perfect yeah take a
picture of you watching it and and i
will give you an extra points if you
have the floating scene with the Sun Oh
behind you Oh a little bit of GNU image
manipulation Wow a semi the original to
the seconds I like to see the real deal
funky okay let's take a look okay Zorin
OS like I was saying was I was just put
onto this recently bye-bye viewer
scorpio 55 i believe and i have to say
it's really quite fantastic I've seen a
lot of distributions over the years and
been using a boon to for a long time and
I've used a couple of boone two
derivatives and I think you'll you'll
know if you've tried this since it was
recommended on the show two weeks ago
it's really sleek it's really clean and
that's really ready to go out of the box
I'm gonna fire this puppy up and I just
just install this today
if you are a Windows user or if you're a
Mac user looking to switch to linux but
what if but not looking this which
machinations sort of the next day only
thing is guys yeah that's Mexico it's
pretty good though when you say all
right I'm gonna log in here turn into
green five taunting that huh do they say
that in uh I got to teach my daughter
she's going into grade one this year she
needs to be able to she s a notice
attack has viruses I rush yes she does
nobody to know that she's awesome she's
six and she runs linux and she loves it
and she and her brother know their way
around in all fairness had they been
introduced to the market installed a WND
so no no i don't have that kind of money
for me you notice one of the greatest
upgrades that we have this week is that
you can no longer see the mac logo oh
really oh that's true i gotcha yes ok
zorn OSS i'm saying if you're coming
from windows oh my goodness this is this
takes me back to the lindos days when
lindos was trying to become linux for
windows users it really takes me back to
that because it's so sleek it's so like
windows 7 the layout the way that your
application menu works
it's so like windows and that's exactly
what they're going for they're trying to
create a distribution and I think
they've effectively done it a
distribution that is comfortable for
users of other operating systems to
migrate over that said it is linux and
so you're able to run it as Linux it's
based on a boon to and it's pretty clean
first impressions as far as the
aesthetics go and i always ask I'm going
to ask Kristin because that's a rather
large computer icon that is a little
absurd I have to say that looks a little
bit I imagine what what's I access to
your hard drive is that that would be
like your your nautilus i would expect
yeah so your file system so what I can
do though if this is true to linux i can
right click on that and resize the icon
and it is look at that it's an SVG so i
can fix it there we got better so that's
that is truly a lot better cool but yes
I noticed that as well other than that
looks of the system this is out of the
box i haven't touched anything what it
looks like i think it's i think it's
pretty cool um honestly i think it looks
a little naive how do you mean um the
sense that it looks like a toy would
give a kid and it has like the big
buttons on it yeah I'm vicinity of
lipstick colors and stuff like that yeah
I like blue though not that it's not
that's a bad thing or just it's not
usual to see that in technology
everybody's trying to one-up I was
trying to cram as much stuff as they
possibly in there yeah but I think it's
clean yeah no absolutely it does have a
little bit of that like that effect is a
little much I think these are the
out-of-the-box effects oh I thought you
were all cool and added them no I'm no
I'm pretty cool but I did not add these
because that would give you a mixed
review so what I'm going to do is I'm
going to type in comp is there and let's
see if we can kind of tweak the
a little bit because I'm not too sure
about that whole explode thing and I
type in animate and it gives me this
animations let's go close animation
leash spread highlight that double click
let's change that to I don't know fade
this is how easy it is to configure
something like Linux so now that
application menu fades out instead right
I think that's a little sleep I'd better
see how easy it is to tweak them very
easy very easy to tweak so if you didn't
like the effects that's how quickly and
easily we can change it and you'll
notice that the the needed application
in order to change it was included with
the system now I'm going to go into this
control center which interestingly is
very much like a windows control panel
but check this out look at all the
different features I mean they're
fantastic I'm going to click on this
look changer
just to see what we find and you'll
notice we've got the option to make our
desktop look like Windows 7 look like
gnome well there you go Linux users if
you'd like to use Zorin OS with just
gnome I like that idea or Windows XP
let's take a look please relog in to
apply the changes sure log out
where do we go to lock in well because I
don't want to do a full reboot I do kind
of like those effects their kind of
sleep log out okay there we go tooltip
is helpful there we go
hey cool it says 0 02 02 we found a
glitch yes
their goals
look at this now we have an actual start
menu and it does indeed look like a
windows-based start menu but you'll
notice again we've still got these cool
effects but we also have that advantage
what we were talking about last week
about how linux is so well sorted if I
go into games it's just the games
there's no extra stuff if I go into
graphics it's just the graphic stuff
alright and this is a gain at all out of
the box so this is all the stuff that
comes with it you'll notice it's google
chrome instead of firefox but easy
enough to switch and everything is very
very clean came with wine as well so you
can run windows applications very cool
other than that ease of installation it
was absolutely simple to install Zorin
OS just a couple of clicks very similar
to the ubuntu installer the organization
of the menus looks fantastic it's really
clean there's not a lot of extra stuff
that you don't need probably even more
so than the pc linux OS that we were
looking at last week the included suite
of software as I said it's it's not
firefox it's it's chrome which may take
some getting used to if you're not used
to that you can always change it it
comes with open shot video editor which
we've reviewed on the show recently
which is very cool if we click on that
performance of the operating system is
very good too let's just take a quick
look at open shot this is one point
three point zero current version is one
point three point one so it's just very
slightly behind but for an
out-of-the-box solution i think that's
that's pretty good it's certainly better
than the one that's in the repositories
for ubuntu base other than that office
suite LibreOffice libre office is
included this is of course a DVD
installation this is not coming to you
as a CD or
yes and I'm using tonight the free
version of the operating system there
are some commercial versions of the OS
as well which includes some additional
features such as if you're interested in
making your Linux if you look like a Mac
just as much as it makes it look like a
windows XP or Windows 7 system we're
able to actually make our Zorin OS
system look like a Mac OS system as well
back at our look changer I'm going to
switch over to Linux gnome here just to
see how true we are to the original
gnome system and then we're pretty much
at a time at that point out of the box
usability i think is exceptionally high
for this operating system that's
distribution because of the fact
especially one that's clean but too it's
it's so familiar because you can change
the interface to what you're used to you
don't have to learn a whole new
interface if you don't want to just yet
you can make that switch to linux but
you can do it with the look of windows
XP you can do it with the look the
appearance of Windows 7 and then once
you're used to it we can switch over to
know mode and you're running a full
beautiful gnome system and of course
everything is customizable if you want
to change the look the feel it gives us
back what a goon to is taken away which
is that control over our distribution
lubuntu has gone the route of saying
okay this is how we're going to do it
it's going to be unity and everyone's
going to love it and that's not the case
so if you want control of your operating
system again if you want control of your
linux distribution it looks to me as
though Zorin OS is a fantastic solution
for that and I would encourage you to
check that out we're going to post some
links of course in the in the show notes
of episode number 198 but that is sauron
dash OS calm and you can download the
free version just to give it a try and
then if you'd like to get the additional
features of the commercial versions that
are available to you you'll be
supporting a great a great distribution
I think and I don't you know some people
would say that there's a problem with
people who charge for linux and I don't
think so in a case where they're really
add
a value-added service of making this
thing really sleek I think out of the
box it's one of the better solutions
that I've seen recently and so that in
itself says you know what I'd like to i
donate to these guys let alone paying a
little bit I think it's like 10 pounds
or something like that it's not a lot of
money to get a full version of the
software so if we actually go through
that process get it you've got the free
version the premium version premium
version yeah it's like its 10-year rope
pardon me not pounds seven-year oh
there's a version for seven-year-old you
can get a physical disk for 10 year old
plus 3 euro shipping so it's not a lot
of money to spend if you want the
commercial version you're supporting
them and there is the free version if
you don't want to spend any money and
you want to just get the out of the box
Linux solution which is exactly what I'm
running on my system that's sore and os
zoran dash OS calm and the only thing
that made us go hmm was that big old my
computer button or the computer button
which we fixed in a matter of seconds
this is category 5 technology TV i'm
your host Robbie Ferguson I'm crystal
well what's going on in the chat room oh
you know just some mac pc controversy
yeah fabulous they just knew you'd be
watching I think so gang how is the the
quality tonight as far as that goes is
our first time broadcasting with the new
server would love to hear from you as
far as how it looks how it sounds sound
of course is not one hundred percent
tonight because we're only using one of
the headset microphones but we do have
Krista's is going to be set up as well
gag will says that the quality is so
much better than recent weeks very good
much sharper and clearer less
artifacting as well but a jamison 55 79
thinks the audio is sinking a little bit
behind the video and dave may do is also
experiencing that as well so pictures
good audios not as good hopefully we'll
be able to get that resolved and
unfortunately that will be reflected in
the the recording for the RSS feeds as
well so forgive us for that we'll try to
work through any issues that we have
that's too bad cool well weird night
weird night get on to our website cap
category 5 TV this week and check us out
you can vote for each episode we'd
encourage you to do that I'm working on
the new mobile version of our website
version 2 point 0 and that incorporates
your votes in order to generate the top
viewer favorites as far as episodes go
so make sure you vote for every episode
every week great
thanks Dave yeah it's it's been a lot to
put into getting the server up and
running so we're bound to have a few
little issues like I said I don't expect
that it's up 100 percent tonight but
we'll work through and and hopefully
we'll be able to work out any little
glitches as we kind of tweak things and
the fans and hard disks yeah you're
going to pick that up from probably from
Krista's Mike especially if I'm mute
Krista's Mike I'm just gonna do that for
just a second we'll see if that is any
better this is just from my headset mic
so audio should be a lot better now and
that's the kind of quality difference
that we're going to get from having
these kind of Mike's which we do now
have thanks to your donations of course
but they're not quite set up yet so i'm
just i'm using mine but Krista is
unfortunately having to use the old Mike
just for the time being it's the only
other mic that it's the only one that
survived the research so so at least it
works so Corey yeah a couple of people
have mentioned the low frame rate
tonight the the difference isn't in
noise cancellation Dave agamotto what it
is is it's the simple fact it's
interesting because these are apex 575
mics and you can i'll post a link in the
end the show notes for 198 these are
omnidirectional so they do pick up room
noise they do pick up background noise
but because it's so close to my mouth
the levels can be very very low it picks
me up very clearly because it's right up
to my mouth so so even though it is
technically going to pick up stuff from
the room because the volume level the
input is is down so low the gain on the
mic you're not actually hearing a lot of
the background noise so it comes in
crystal clear
Kristen's gonna break into song
fantastic maybe when you get maybe when
I have my shop sorry headset topstar
headset yeah maybe if you do voiceovers
all I'm singing voice overs that would
be good like an actual good singer you
know while I'm singing in the field for
like wow so lip sync I'll be like bring
him like that is amazing who would annul
sure yeah all right gang fantastic
thanks for being a part of this bit of a
test episode tonight as we get the new
server set up and going we're going to
keep working it out we're going to keep
working on it and hope you enjoyed the
the short show tonight and we'll we'll
continue working on everything that
what's going on with the servers and
good good just check-in messages here
Smitty Smith I'll pop you an email I
appreciate that very much we actually we
do have the microphones here now though
we have these mics here so if that's
what you mean just offering that that
they may have some to donate but the
funds did come in this week and we had
done a review of the microphone on the
on my blog so if that's but let's chat
pme or something so cool thanks
everybody guess that's it for us wow if
I didn't get your question this week you
understand I'm sure but we will try to
get your question next week and then of
course episode 200 is coming up on the
19th so make sure that you're here for
that it's going to be a fun night again
we're going to be stepping out a format
but we're going to have a good time and
I get to see some some faces that that
you haven't seen for a while and I'm
looking forward to it can't believe
we're 200 episodes in all right
everybody take care have a great night
see ya
you
