something that I've run into with the
growing number of single board computers
that I have is the inability to power
all of them right it's always an issue
so I started looking at DC power
supplies that you can get for your
workbench because these things have so
much amperage so much wattage that you
could plug 20 raspberry pies into the
thing and it'll power everything if
you've got the right voltage but getting
on to say something like Amazon Here I
am on Amazon Canada and I can see the
price is about 120 dollars for an
entry-level one now there are some cheap
ones well there's some really cheap ones
but generally speaking a good one I'm
finding are gonna be $200 to $400 for a
really good one and you want to
certainly yeah and you do want a good
one now
I also noticed like this one here that's
three hundred and six dollars it's got
multiple different voltages output so
you can have different like I have some
12-volt computers some five volt systems
and sometimes I'm doing some other
things and so something like that would
be great whereas some of the cheaper
ones only have a single output so you'd
set the voltage and it's going to be
that voltage for everything right okay
so 200 bucks whatever what if I could do
it for ten dollars just just putting
that out there yeah what if I could do
it for ten dollars do you believe it's
possible is it not gonna be like one of
those fake SD cards isn't now I hope not
that's why you've got your volt meter
because we're gonna find out if it's
fake or if it's legit going ready to
this for so how are we gonna do this
what's one thing that I that I have too
many of laying around my garage computer
power supplies yeah yeah how many of us
have a couple of extra power supplies
pulled from old computers and if you
don't have you can easily I mean pop by
a local computer shop that does
refurbishing or whatever and they
probably have a couple sitting in a box
that you can have for five bucks or
something I
but I I have tons of them laying around
so bill here here's my latest pull so I
pulled this one out of an old computer
here at the studio and I think it's
still good it's got some dust and that's
all that's all good that's fine that's
fine
yep that means you use that yep so let's
say let's plug it in and I just want to
make sure that it is going to work so I
do have a tester for my power supply
itself this is a dr. power - from
thermaltake so I can power this on just
to see power comes good we've got five
volts twelve point two volts 3.3 volts
eleven point five volts which is the
negative 12 volt right and five volt
again and it says the power is good so
we're good to go
so I went out bill and I thought okay
well this here's a great idea what if I
took the fact that this has 12 volts 3.3
volts 5 volts snip the cable made some
kind of circuit PCB that had a bunch of
you know connectors and things like that
so that I could use this for a new power
supply from my workbench so I ordered
the parts which you have to buy in bulk
because I didn't have any of the parts
yet so then so I got like a bag of
connectors okay you gotta buy them by
the hundred like the like bags of all
the different things that I would need
to make this happen right and then this
instead of going and buying a power
supply yeah because I wanted I want to
tinker I want to I want to say hey I
made that myself I did not myself and
then I can be proud of that and and also
I wanted to make it so that I could if
if the power supply died I could just
unplug the power supply and plug in a
new power supply - here you go that kind
of idea so after all that said and done
somehow I mean the the Facebook machine
figured out what it was I was doing and
put an ad up on my screen yeah nice and
it took me now I've created a hotlink
for u cat v dot TV slash ATX and Bill
are you ready for this
he's practically hiding I'm gonna show
you don't worry sweet sweet so thinking
along the lines of what what it is that
I had intended on doing this has an ATX
input directly off of a power supply it
has a power switch to turn it on and off
then it's got fuses for each voltage and
individual power outputs for each
voltage that is available on the power
supply the fuses are a nice bonus it is
an absolutely no I suppose I hadn't even
thought of that
everything you need that's that's it so
I've got negative 12 volt positive 12
volt 5 volt 3.3 volts and then you
figure out the amperage of something
like this a power supply and figure 25
Raspberry Pi is easy hmm 10 raspberry
PI's a couple of pine 64's we can do
this right or just if you're tinkering
and you want to you want to mess around
and I want to plug this in and and we're
gonna see what what happens here go I
haven't done this yet yeah I'm afraid to
touch it okay so is it going to power on
when I flip that switch fans started
spinning light came on so you've got
your voltmeter on here and now there's
no load so could that be its it just
shut off Wow can we put a load on it
will your voltmeter put a load on say
the 12 volt well it's gonna put a small
low losses as well over it isn't it yeah
positive 12 so let me let me kill the
switch and power on
it's not enough of a load bill you know
so I would have to have a load on this
in order to get power coming off of it I
think it's a great idea we work on it
we'll work on this thank you not today
but if I have so if I have a load on
this I think that's probably what's
probably right yeah there's nothing
nothing to pull it is a cool device
we're gonna be looking at this over the
next little while it's gonna save us
having to buy one of those kits it's
only $10 and it will work on any power
supply I'm gonna let you know bill
what what happens when I put maybe a
couple of raspberry pies on the 5-volt
keeping in mind that this is not a
transformer either so they stopped
holding directly from a good s'alright
power supply so if I'm getting power
good off of this which I am then this is
going to have clean power as well that's
one of the advantages to doing it this
way plus then if this dies I can unplug
it plug it in the power supply so I like
that cool I like it
cat5 TV slash ATX put a load on it and I
think you're gonna find that it's pretty
cool
[Music]
[Applause]
