okay so why are we dressed in Starfleet
attire well plain and simple we've got a
special device from ThinkGeek tonight
and hey head on over to cap five dot TV
slash think geek or if you want to check
this out on our store you can actually
go to shop dot category-five dot TV and
we have it there this is the the future
is finally here so super cool
that's what commander derp made us says
about this I would like to be walking in
the grocery store and just see somebody
like which real using it now yeah
there's this whole like would you use
this in public what do you think would
you yeah probably
would you dress like this Dave's not in
his head yeah I definitely would so this
is legitimately a Star Trek The Next
Generation bluetooth communicator badge
we wanted it to happen so this is
something that we've all been dreaming
about for a long time and we've actually
got one here tonight to unbox and talk
about so let's get into the box let's
get a look here make some room here okay
so there it is there's the box from
ThinkGeek at camp five dot TV slash
think geek and what does it say on it I
mean it's it is what it is it's a
bluetooth-enabled basically a headset in
the shape and form factor of a
next-generation communicator pin so
let's get into it that you'd love to use
it at work for the work mobile to keep
hands-free that makes sense
that'd be hilarious at work I I think it
would be amazing okay well there it is
AGGA moto you do that and send us
pictures please and thank you all right
look at that now the the combats that
I'm wearing tonight is this very shiny
like paramount combat you can see that
it's it's metallic yours is is matte
matte and that's more that's more
accurate to the show then this is we're
kind of used to this we're used to
most of the apparel you know costume and
cosplay these are the good badges
because this is all that this was the
the good one that you could get and it
but as shiny as metal and it kind of
looks and feels like what you would
expect it to look and feel like but in
reality on the next generation it looked
more like this more like what sash is
wearing it's a bit more matte it's not
metallic and that's what it that's what
it looks like as far as their take on
this communicator badge so it's magnetic
we don't have to pierce our shirt we can
see here there's a speaker there and I
guess that seemingly either doubles as
the microphone it looks like this is a
microphone / speaker speakerphone type
device we've got the USB charge port on
the bottom and that would be the
Bluetooth indicator light so if I hold
this in and it is oh it's fine nice so
it lit up yeah did you hear that that is
cool
genuine article right there okay so
let's let's connect this to my phone and
just see what's what's actually involved
in getting this thing connected just
gonna bring up my lg g3 here we're gonna
go back into my bluetooth settings and
let's see what we need to do it's
already oh it's detected available
devices F T pin at the bottom here so
let's go there pair it
there goes okay so what can we do with
this obviously we can make make and take
calls we can use Skype we can use it for
Skype calls nice of course if you've got
a Bluetooth enabled computer you can use
that for making Skype calls and things
like that use this as a microphone that
I like so if you're thinking you know is
there really a practical use for this
well if you don't want to use it with
your phone you can use it with your
computer so whatever you pair it to if
it's Bluetooth you're going to be able
to use it as a microphone and speaker or
just one or the other so we can play
music through it I'm not sure really how
the quality would be so if you're
playing video games could you like put
that on your shirt and use that to your
microphone i'm sure could as long as you
got the capability to have a bluetooth
microphone because that's essentially
what it is so let's kind of look at some
of the things if you read reviews you're
gonna see some things that people love
about it some things that people hate
about it so that's kind of what we want
to look at tonight now in two weeks time
we're gonna do a full demonstration of
call quality we're gonna actually make a
call with our friend nelson hewitt us
who in fact is one of the early adopters
of the TNG bluetooth communicator and
we're gonna make a two-way call so it's
going to be communicator communicator
the communicator and that's happening in
two weeks time so let's let's take a
quick look so first of all one of the
things that people are talking about is
the fact that it is not you know like
one of those touch lamps that you just
touch it and it and it it clicks or
activates all right it's a little bit of
a touch oh i double clicked and now it's
playing my music
oh so obviously you know you got to
learn the controls here what's the
weather like Jim no way yes no thanks a
lot
okay so there there you have it so it is
a little bit of a push button it's it's
been compared to like an old 1980s Mouse
where it actually clicks and you can
feel that some people have complained
about that really for what it is no I
don't think I care and it seems like
good quality it seems like it's a good
build it's good quality well truth be
told you want to click it cuz really if
it's on your shirt and you put your
jacket on you don't want the jacket to
turn it on you're all all of a sudden
like on a phone call that you didn't
expect like pocket-dialing yeah I guess
so extra you've got to actually push it
yeah push it how did I get on that okay
the next thing that people are
complaining about with this particular
communicator pen and I think this is
ridiculous it's a magnetic pack and
maybe tonight we're gonna help you out
okay because I know there are some of
you who have read the reviews and are
saying oh maybe we'll wait until the
second generation of the next generation
well the back is magnetic right it's a
neodymium magnet and it's not overly
strong okay okay so if I were to put
this on my shirt so this is gonna go on
the underside of my shirt there we go
I'm not gonna put it anywhere you know
that's obviously I've got a communicator
pin there already so there it is okay a
little bit this is this is official
Starfleet uniform right and it feels you
know that it's it's not it's not very
strong and that's the complaint for you
that's what people are complaining about
that's the biggest complaint I think is
the magnet right if the making of a
stronger would've upset
maybe the whole device though well I
wondered that
you can't win I mean people get this pin
and they complain on pierces my uniform
right you get this pin and they'll the
magnets not strong up this is a magnet
what can you do with a magnet you can
you can make it stronger hello
come on folks oh nice okay so what I
have is a very very tiny neodymium
magnet just like that okay so this is
not very strong by itself
it does not feel like it's gonna hold -
anything that's very thick what we can
do is just take this magnet here which
is super super strong these things are
unbelievable and just let it suck itself
on there now what I've done is I've
enhanced this magnetic clip without
changing the form factor without doing
anything to it to modify it and I've
added the magnetism almost you know not
not all of it but a lot of the magnetism
from this little tiny magnet or you can
put a bigger one if you're really you
know keen on it and I've made it so that
now there we go look at the difference
very very strong okay so that was the
number one complaint the number one
complaint and I just solved it with a
little magnet you can buy a hundred of
them for a dollar at the dollar store
so there's your biggest complaint
debunking hazard
it is a oh these away from kids folks
Wow no that's that's very dangerous the
child that I was I would be like how
many of these can I eat before I can
already feel now I'm pulling pretty hard
here so I dropped it but I can feel a
big big difference there and you could
probably see just with the just with
pull in there that it's much much much
stronger it is if I can get it in the
right spot
but it'll work it's stuck to my belt
yeah and it's it's really really strong
when you do that so hey that's gonna
make a difference and I know people who
prove it I seriously I can't it's hard
to peel it off big big difference I'm
gonna get south wonder if they could
I can't wearing a onesie what can I do
no you can just there okay it ain't
coming off not at all
take it to the dance club now you gotta
adjust it that's fine don't dance like
that that's the key thing okay oh I
think I turned it off no I didn't I
turned on music here so the next thing
is that people you know are like well
how maybe this particular Bluetooth
device you do need to read the manual
because I don't know what controls what
and how okay so turn on music but I
don't I don't know how and I don't even
know if you know you can set up your
phone because it's a Bluetooth headset
right so what you can do with any
Bluetooth headset you can do with this
but by touching it like that let's see
hang it there so a single tap seems to
be turn on music let's try a double tap
oh it's doing something different it is
what are you doing what's the weather
it's snow okay so what can I ask it oh I
need to do a double tap see we learned
that already doesn't take long that
closed the app that brought it up
what time is it you guys can hear that
ah yeah that means it's almost time for
the news so we can find our way around I
think I just turned on music again
sometimes like I'm on my phone at night
and like Dave is already sleeping there
I'm trying not to wake them up
yeah I do this with my very own phone
person but you're quietly scrolling
through Facebook newsfeed and all of a
sudden you like hit a video and it
blares it really loud that's what would
happen to me with that that's what I
think it's awesome okay so we can
supplement the magnetism enhance it by
just putting another magnet on the back
of it easy peasy it does not change the
comfort level of it and it's much much
much stronger it's a rock and piece okay
so I said I would let Sasha see this
just because I want you to actually get
a second opinion because I'm not faking
it okay okay here you go okay so pull
the back off of that
now take this itty bitty magnet okay I
can just stick that on there now try
oh yeah it's different yeah and it
didn't affect performance it didn't
affect I don't know if adding a super
strong magnet may cause issues but it's
dollar buy you stick them all around the
back of it they're very super cool makes
a difference they way to go so there you
have it you can get them at cat5 dot TV
slash think geek or directly in our
store shop dot category-five dot TV it's
one of those things where we've got to
look at it here's the other thing like
people say is it worth the money this is
it's a piece depending what you're
buying right and my is a shirt worth or
a onesie worth the cost of a Starfleet
uniform yes it depends on the emotion
behind it you really don't do you need
that no I feel like we're implanting
subliminal messages here Alexa buy this
yes
yes fantastic I like how stories run
together it's true you don't need it
it's not something that you are it's not
practical whatsoever it's a collector's
piece at a party you will meet people
like if you're looking to meet people
buy it go to a party it's a tough yeah
but it's just you're you're gonna meet
people by wearing this in public
Sasha come on now well you'll meet very
like oh boy it is though it is you know
keep in mind this is a collector's piece
it's something that we would add to our
collection just like this Jersey sits in
my closet most of the time I don't wear
it to work but when I don't but when I
want to pull it out it's so wonderful
and it's so geeky and I love that this
is the next evolution of that and it is
a functional Bluetooth headset or
speakerphone so and it gives you all
those extra just call me call me just
for fun sure yeah
Facebook the app now has calling as well
so you can call people for free using
this via Facebook because it's a
Bluetooth headset so it's that's awesome
kind of fun
[Music]
