it's Tuesday December 29 2015 and here
are the stories were covering this week
Elon Musk says he now knows when the
safe fully autonomous self driving car
will arrive an analysis of North Korea's
computer system has revealed an
underlying spy architecture to both
monitor and manipulate files a Ukrainian
startup says that they've solved
long-range wireless charging with their
new technology which is loosely based on
how the old crystal radio works a
mysterious collector has opened the
world's largest private Apple exhibition
in Prague US prisoners have been getting
out of jail early thanks to a software
bug that's been in place for 13 years
and a botnet attack powered by a
vulnerability and athira modems is
hitting WordPress websites these stories
are coming right up don't go anywhere
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / Linda I'm statue
through medicine here are the top
stories from the category 5 TV news room
a variety of automakers have begun
selling semi autonomous vehicles but
you'll have to wait probably five years
to buy a fully autonomous one the kind
that you can that can drive you anywhere
while you read a book behind the wheel
at least that's what many car companies
are predicting Tesla Motors CEO Elon
Musk on the other hand believes his
company's fully autonomous cars will
arrive in just a few years regulations
allowing them on the road could take
between 125 years depending on
jurisdictions he predicts that's yet
another notch down in Musk's ever
shortening timeline in September he told
Danish news site boursin that he expects
the company to have self-driving
vehicles ready in three years and one
year before that the company released a
statement projecting that the technology
would be completed in five or six years
this is awesome for him MUSC might not
be incorrect in october his company
began became the first automaker to sell
semi autonomous vehicles commercially
but his competitors are being more
conservative in their predictions Ford
CEO mark fields told forbes in june that
he expects someone to make fully
autonomous cars ready for consumer
purchase within the next five years but
declined to say that Ford would hit that
deadline Japan's Nissan has pegged 2020
as the year it hopes to release the
self-driving cars to the masses as has
Toyota Audia has estimated it would be
ready to turn out fully autonomous
vehicles by 2025 google has been testing
semi-autonomous and fully autonomous
vehicles for years and it hopes to begin
selling fully autonomous vehicles in two
to five years perhaps in partnership
with Ford it's possible that the exact
dates are erupt irrelevant car companies
must do more than simply build the
technology behind the fully autonomous
driving they also need to work with
governments to set regulations and
figure out how to get the vehicles into
consumers garages even if Tesla releases
the perfect self-driving car before its
competitors do that
doesn't mean the vehicles were outsell
others the self-driving car may might be
closer than it appears but its
popularization remains distant and I
agree I don't know that I would be
comfortable would you Robbie my question
yeah for you is like would you ride in
an autonomous car fully atong be
freaking out a little bit I wouldn't
want it to drive itself in the winter
does your mom like grab at the steering
wheel while you're driving not anymore
no he's gotten past that yes I would not
want to drive in my own owned autonomous
car I wouldn't want to own a piece of
technology that's that expensive and
also that potentially dangerous however
I would like somebody else to own it and
I'd love to ride around in it you know I
don't I wouldn't want to how much does a
car costs like how much was one of those
1 billion dollars a hundred and twenty
thousand dollars probably yeah I don't
know how much they're gonna cost but
yeah I don't know that the timing is
relevant as you say but it seems this is
the progression of things my other
Johnny cab is coming my other concern
yeah there's an episode of Doctor Who on
a while ago I know with so obviously
you're about to say weeping angels no
I'm not there was an episode with David
Tennant we're basically these cars are
trying to take over the world by driving
people into lakes okay that's one of the
things that I'm scared but I'm just
gonna drive right off the road Italy
something I'm not so afraid of an
autonomous car I'm afraid of my
autonomous car trying to murder me yes
right okay I could see them being more I
mean if Isaac Asimov's rules apply to
the autonomous car then would it be
safer than a game and driven vehicle yes
I trust an autonomous car more than I I
trust the majority of drivers out there
like there are some good drivers there
are so many bad drivers couple things I
mean I'm driving down the highway
Christmas night and there are people
driving without their headlights on and
its pitch black out right and things
like that like
driver error that is stupid right and no
accidental I'm sure yeah well that's the
thing I so I wouldn't want to own a car
that's safer than all the rest of the
cars and then have somebody else hit it
right but would it have better defensive
driving capabilities because it's smart
so to speak and I can see everything at
all times I can't see necessarily in my
blind spots if somebody's doing
something crazy or swerving or something
but an autonomous car can but then what
can it do I mean you're in the confines
of your own lane i'm thinking the
bathroom would light comes in that max
isn't that next robots are gonna take
over the world i know it driving to the
lake so in like my perfect world
there'll be a new taxi service of
autonomous cars and i won't have to buy
the car but i'll be able to benefit from
the technology we know it's coming in
very well Johnny gab we're driving cars
that's that is an interesting thing and
what r eal on Musk's opinions of uber
what does he like it is he like I'm just
putting that out there hmm okay like
musk what are your opinions on newburgh
I think we know Ellis I think we know
the first in other news the first
in-depth analysis of North Korea's
internal computer operating system has
revealed spying tools capable of
tracking documents offline red star OS
was designed to superficially mimic
Apple's OS X but hidden features allow
it to watermark files and tie them to an
individual the covert tools were
discovered by two German researchers who
conducted the analysis over the past
month they presented their findings at
the Kaos communications Congress on
Sunday the researchers pour it over the
code of red star OS virgin version 3.0
which first surfaced online about a year
ago the systems coders did a pretty good
job of mimicking the basic design and
functionality of Apple computers but
with a twist any files uploaded to the
system via a USB stick or other store
bridge device can be water marked
allowing the state to trace the journey
of that file from machine to machine
redstar can also identify undesirable
files and delete them without permission
red star was built using Linux a free
and open-source platform which can be
modified at will and was designed that
way to make it as accessible as possible
there is an inherent irony in North
Korea's use of the system says one of
its researchers they are using a system
that was built to promote free speech
and they're abusing it by watermarking
free speech hmm so kind of sad Linux
news I would say it's a hard thing I
mean I know it's North Korea and so you
know there's fears there about some some
things and spying on users and things
like that but it would seem kind of
normal to me that a government would
have access to that kind of data
internally my company would have
endpoint protection of some sort to be
able to make sure that there are not
data leaks taking place and that's one
of the things that are almost a well
it's a problem there was a hard drive
full of Social Insurance numbers and all
this stuff at a Canadian government
office just sitting there an external
hard drive so if they if we had all of
our actual like secure information
watermark then the government would be
able to trace who stole it if it got
stolen or prevent it from being stolen
by knowing where it is at any given time
and prevent it from so for example using
endpoint protection software or hardware
appliance on a network if if Kelsey went
rogue which is destined to happen and
started going into my customer database
and emailing credit card information to
herself at home so that she could then
take over their accounts or something or
whatever it may be data leakage happens
data theft happens all the time and use
an example of the government office
where this physical hard drive was
actually physically taken and now all
that information about people's I think
it was
school loans was was revealed to the
public so being able to think of
watermarking as being able to track
right in all your files and find out
where they've gone and where they
started even so regardless of who's
responsible be at North Korea or or a
government office in Canada it's a tough
call because security measures have to
be put in place I guess it depends on
the motivation I you know what I would
say I bet you it was the fact that
nobody knew that the information was
water marked but if you said like if the
government said all of the information
on our servers Willie water marked we
will be able to trace anything always
and this is an operating system right
redstar OS being distributed to citizens
of North Korea and saying here this is
the operating system of choice and this
is free and so on right not of choice so
pretty sure they don't get a choice well
we're not getting all political let's
just throw a little comparison out there
how many of us have seen the little
pop-up that says windows 10 is available
for your system absolutely free mmm-hmm
and if you read on in the terms of use
what does it say about the ability for
them to be able to transfer your right
your data how is it any not to make a
comparison to North Korea between
Microsoft okay okay but perhaps media
kind of skews things in such a way that
we start to finger point and say hey
they're doing something bad well really
it's happening under our own right as
well I'm picking up what you're laying
down or reading your mail if you will
hey all right wireless chargers using
standards like Chi which is spelled Qi
which is a Chinese word for natural
energy have been on the market for a
while ikea even includes them in some of
its furniture these days so these are
the the furniture pieces there you just
put your phone on top of tuna travelers
yeah yeah but if you think about it
there's not so much difference between a
wired and wireless charging of this
after all the charger still needs to be
plugged into a wall socket and you still
need to leave your phone in the
designated place to charge what would be
a significant improvement however is
charging a smartphone just by hanging
around in the same room as a wireless
charger so Z a Ukrainian start up
working in a semi stealth mode since
2014 claims to have found a safe and
reliable way to transfer electricity to
a device up to five meters or 16 feet
away awesome the commercial version of
the technology will consist of a base
charging station of about 15 x 15 x 40
centimeters and a 3 millimeter thick
smartphone case the current version
isn't as compact as it will become the
antenna and a buffer battery sit in the
3d printed cradle while the transmitter
is contained in a large black box it can
take up to 20 seconds for the charging
to start after the transmitter is
powered on that's the time needed for
the buffer battery to build up a head of
steam the project began as a curious
thought in the brain of startups founder
Ivan kuba could a smartphone be powered
like an old crystal radio the idea of a
crystal radio is simple with just a coil
of copper wire antenna capacitor and
crystal detector and high impedance
earphones impedance earphones and no
additional power you can listen to some
radio stations although the sound level
is very weak what Z claims to have done
is build an efficient combination of a
transmitter and receiver so that the
power passed along could be used to
charge the buffer battery Z's team of
eight people based in Ukraine Poland and
the UK have spent more than a year
looking for the most efficient
configuration for such a system the main
breakthrough we've achieved is the
antenna to beset on our working
frequency which is in the SW band you'll
normally need a large antenna to receive
the signal and pass to the converter we
have built an antenna capable of doing
this that can be housed in an iphone 6
or 6 sk
the team is currently working on a new
prototype so that it can take to the
Assad Europe conference in dublin in
january from there the prototype will be
sent to a certification center in the UK
in order to receive the necessary
documents to start mass production
that's close that's soon howdy there
initially Z will offer cases for iphone
6 and 6s but in the future the startup
plans to widen the range the idea is to
license the technology to establish case
vendors this is great this is the sort
of news story where I can picture you
could go on to a plane and by the time
you land everybody's phone would be
charged yeah I love there I love that
their licensing the technology rather
than trying to be the end-all be-all by
our case so they say ok Samsung if you
would like to implement this technology
and hey let's also implement
transmitters at every railway station
and bus stop and everywhere else well I
was even yeah so I was thinking earlier
when I was reading the stories that if
they had the ability to modify
pacemakers and you know little things
that need constant like you're better
they called hearing aid yeah right so
that you just automatically kind of get
juiced up anywhere you go my immediate
thought is ok for medical device like a
pacemaker or something that you know my
life is relying on this mm-hmm I would
be afraid to to implement that but if it
was a secondary measure or just a
charging mechanism so if I had you know
a full day's worth of battery in my
pacemaker and was able to charge it
wirelessly by entering my house right
sort of wake up sleep like a backup
right you think about people i mean not
actually powering the device what's
right yeah right so I mean there are
tons of people out there who are hard of
hearing that can't afford the batteries
necessary for their hearing aids but you
can even yeah so if they had something
like that I mean if you went to a public
library and all of a sudden
you know you could hear again like it
there are a lot of implementations I
mean we're looking at phones and and but
yeah thinking about other devices and
all the uses of it or your teeny drone
would never die I like the way you think
so great you know how horrible it is
that like tiny little window where you
have to plug it in and not fly it while
it charges up again what is it is 5
meters so that's I can go way further
than 5 meters it's got like 80 feet
distance but but you can you practice
Wi-Fi every now and then yeah and it
charged it as you go hey so great wonder
how long it would take to charge
something like to full capacity yeah
like and considering a shortwave band
it's gonna be a low power yeah little
trickle charging so it's it's almost a
few hours if you're constantly within
this field yes we assume is going to be
safe because that's the whole idea
they're getting it certified to prove
that it's safe and get it registered I
like yeah yeah sure lunch oh great new
technology but it kills and yes yeah not
the cars the cars won't kill you okay
although the official apple store is yet
to come to the capital of the Czech
Republic the city has recently seen the
launch of the Apple Museum which claims
to host the largest private exhibition
of its kind house in three buildings in
Prague's Old Town the museum has an
extensive list of 472 exhibits on
display from nearly every Apple product
ever built to Steve Jobs's business
cards from his times at next and Pixar
entry to the museum costs 11 euros or
eight pounds with all proceeds donated
to charity purposes in addition to the
actual exhibition a raw vegan restaurant
called Stevens food will soon open up
serving foods that were probably enjoyed
by the apple co-founder like apples that
are both raw and vegan the museum's
website called Prague the first city
where you can see the
unique exhibition which could mean that
the collection might be on the move at
some point apple doesn't have an
official Museum of its own products
although there used to be one that Steve
Jobs closed soon after his return to the
company in 1997 so there you go an apple
museum not for apples of the tree
variety but for Steve Jobs apples Apple
very cool Let Go Go no want to go gonna
make the trek I don't like Apple very
much but I want to go it is kind of neat
from a nostalgia standpoint yeah and to
see that it came from here to here yeah
it's pretty amazing i want to go I would
go I go if I was in the neighborhood go
let's make it a category-five class
outing haha there you go nice alright
more than 3,200 US prisoners have been
released early because of a software
glitch whoops yep oopsie the bug
miscalculated the sentence reduction
prisoners in washington state had
received for good behavior it was
introduced in 2002 as part of an update
that followed a court ruling on applying
good behavior credits Washington's
governor jay Inslee said at a press
conference that this problem was allowed
to continue for 13 years is deeply
disappointing to me totally unacceptable
and frankly maddening state officials
said that many released prisoners would
have to return to jail to finish their
sentences on average prisoners got out
49 days early but one prisoner had his
sentence cut by 600 days good for him it
was good behavior anyhow but I mean he's
are criminals but the bug was detected
but not fixed in 2012 an update that
applies the correct formula for
calculating sentence cuts is due to be
in place by January to seventh until
then the District of Columbia has been
ordered not to release any prisoners
without checking manually that they
should be released I have a little bit
of a problem with people having to go
back to prison to complete their
this is hurt if it's 447 to 600 days
these imagine like if this was really
somebody who was on good behavior like
somebody yeah like I've changed now I've
you know whatever it may be and go home
to their kids or something and the joy
and the and then being pulled back again
because of an error right there's a
couple of things there's not very much
space in the prison system in yeah in
Washington I assume um almost most
states and secondly there's gonna be so
many people fighting this that it's just
gonna be a legal nightmare to try to get
them to go back to jail for a problem
that's not their doing yeah they didn't
create this I don't know I'll defend you
I'm not I'm no lawyer but i'll defend
y'all get you off i just hope that the
guy that was out 600 days early is a
nice person oh yeah well that's true but
I mean they say I mean once you serve
your time that's it right you are
reintroduced into the community after
paying your penance right shouldn't have
to go back you shouldn't have to go back
unless you do something bad behavior
wise call that's a real tough call like
erasing the stop signs out of pictures
or something it's only illegal if you do
it to get out of tickets that's true
that's what we learned tonight a botnet
has been identified that is targeting
WordPress website with a password
guessing attack in February of this year
a security researcher at wojtek noticed
a brute force attack on his personal
wordpress site and he noticed a pattern
in the IP addresses attacking his site
they were mostly Italian Internet
service providers what he discovered is
that the IP is attacking a site were all
devices they were all athira modem or
router a sweet athira modem routers to
be exact by doing some further sleuthing
he discovered that all the athira
devices involved in the attack were
using default login credentials the
modems had been had obviously been
hacked and the attacker had gained
access through the default login they
had then installed malware on the modems
that launched a brute force
we're guessing attack on WordPress sites
the athira devices in question suffer
from the from various cross-site
scripting vulnerabilities among other
issues to protect your WordPress site
make sure you have a security tools such
as word fence monitoring and protecting
your login system if you use a modem
which might be suspect suspect make sure
your firmware is patched to the latest
version and that you have configured
strong login credentials on the modem I
know Robbie that we've done a show on
word fence and and so I know that you
can go back I don't remember what
episode it is but make sure if you're
using WordPress too it's it's kind of a
two-fold warning isn't it because you
get a modem from your internet service
provider and you just think oh it's safe
they say you know plug it in turn it on
oh look I've got internet so that's
great who would want to compromise me
well you're just a number it's like it's
like the olden days before you know
before we had the ability to go style
and stuff picking up a phone and
starting at you know one two three four
one two three five one two three six one
two threes to do solicitations and stuff
or governing for office would have
people sitting in a call center dialing
like that well similarly your IP address
is just a sequence of numbers that
account through and oh it found a router
that's susceptible so let's compromise
right this isn't even just a person
plugging things in no person who made a
program that plugs it in like the he
probably or she guessing it's a he
because we're gender stereotyping
hackers he or she wrote a program and is
probably you know sleeping peacefully at
night well all of this mayhem is
occurring so and then what does a botnet
mean all of these modems so let's say
10,000 modems all together working to
attack your modem at home being used as
part of a supercomputer basically to
attack websites and those websites are
gainin on
just websites that happen to be indexed
by the search engine and so they're able
to find out that hey this site runs
WordPress and now let's attack it mm-hmm
so your WordPress site all of a sudden
becomes vulnerable so yeah crazy anyhow
big thanks this week to roy w nash and
our community of yours for submitting
stories to us if you found a new story
you'd like to send email it to newsroom
at category 5 TV for all your tech news
with a slight linux bias visit the
category 5 TV news room at newsroom
category 5 TV for the category 5 TV news
room I'm Sasha dramatis
