hi guys welcome to the eighth video of
the pixel shadow where today we're on
our brand new server which includes a
bunch of builds that one of them are
included which is a survival house but
also some other builds from creative
today we're in creative but we have
hearts because what we're going to do is
in this building behind me here we have
par core set up for us to play so we're
going to do some parkour with three
friends duty d kelly 8-10 dots 15 24 and
a cams over there and we're going to be
doing some parkour we're going to
challenge each other and at the end of
Diamonds surprises we have all content
goodies to get out some bread to heal
myself by fall in the lava and let's get
beginning so I'll just say go and we
will begin running
to the park or and the first person to
the end gets all the goodies and
I check this out before I've already eat
it before but that took a while
got to eat some bread or my phone if I
die then i'll be very
so we're going to try and make it to the
end without dying that's our new vow
we're not going to
as if we die then i'll be super angry
well go that's where you win the prizes
but at the end it kind of gets really
hard before the
this is getting very hard
no no did you see how close I was duties
gonna win
so duty once oh no I just got to quickly
type something let's see who's next
nice to me
ms crystal which is a rare crystal in
the mind test and darland and the bronze
pickaxe so we're next so that means that
was actually quite quick but luckily I
thought ahead and we've built more
parkour so he got his prizes now let's
head over over to the mansion there's no
prize for this one but it's still going
to be lots of fun so over here we have
some more parkour it's not quite done
there's a few rooms but since this video
um I really don't want to do what we did
last time with the five-minute video so
we're going to try and make this as long
as possible so come so I'm just trying
to type quickly so don't blame me if I
is what I say doesn't make any sense so
are they what are they doing over there
next
come on oh well okay oh they died oh I
can't believe that I didn't think of
that so I'm not going to say anything so
we're there's only a few rooms but this
will do well so we're just going to do
the few rooms try every room cuz it's
not done okay come on okay go so this is
a really nice kind mentioning place
you have to turn make it to the end
with the truth
and so there's another room over here I
really thought that this would last
longer but apparently duties a parkour
master and it's cool because this is
like the mansion theme it kind of has
some manche kind of things is this even
possible to how it is you were a cheater
yes
do
so instead I guess we'll show some more
of the world so
show
so that was a good game so over here
when you spawn in which is going to be
in here not yet anyway we haven't set
the spawn point it says the pixel shadow
you see the youtube logo so there is
also this is owned by todd's touch store
it's not done it's so I might not want
to show it off now yeah i'll show it off
later because so you see these books and
those these are part of a mod called the
the cave rooms mod so it's it opens up
kind of underground dimension so you can
see underground so it's like an
underground dimension it's really cool
has lots of different crystals and I've
started a mine I haven't quite found a
cave realm so I'm going to invite my
friends become
sorry for all the typing I kind of spelt
things wrong on purpose and that we're
going to get fixed up that we're going
to get fixed up and oh I need to show
this is this this is dennis Kelly's it's
a really cool castle I didn't see this
before this is really good I really like
the way he made a cobblestone and its
really nice so we're going to head over
to here which has our mind system going
down you have to go pretty far to find a
cave round and these kind of our from
the cave roms mod instance when creative
will be able to easily go down we found
some lava so we kind of had a little
trouble but then we found a way to get
past that so we're going to try and find
a cave realm because I'd really enjoy to
try and show you guys what cave realms
like they're really cool and so what we
do so what we did is we let me just
quickly block this off we decided to do
that so we went around the lava and I
rule and what we really hope to find is
a cave room because k roms are super
rare but they're really good finds so I
really hope to find one so we're going
to start digging deeper and I think I'll
use torches say give a lot more light I
know this video has been a little bit
random for parkour and you should
suddenly showing some castles and then
going underground but i'm sure i don't
mind it lots of fun so we try and find a
cave room ooh dymond 1245 and they're
here isn't it through materials really
rare and we interviewed that on our more
or as much okay and you can tell that
it's a bit rare than jacket so that if
we were in survival we could have found
some more interesting things but that's
okay because um we can always do things
like
baby well I don't know but we'll be able
to find material again I can promise you
so all you have to do to find a cave
room let's just dig super deep so I'm
going to start digging down here and
duties left the game but it was lots of
fun kept having it with the park or he
must be a parkour master so I'm going to
keep digging down and placing torches
which is kind of difficult to do try and
find okay vroom mm what what what's
killing me uh sir
what would I would I die oh well so
that's just a mystery that will never be
learned why don't die again because
usually you probably saw the glitch
where I spawn in this other place and
spawn back to where I was that's not
really supposed to happen so
Thanks so DK is offered to play some
torches that's really nice of em Thank
You decal Kelly and I think I've fallen
into a cave well place down to it isn't
here sometimes you can find cave rooms
that are leading from caves so you
should investigate this a little bit not
too much because we don't want to get
lost some lava here but doesn't look
like clay from wants to show its face so
let's go back to the hole will quickly
do that so that don't accidentally find
ourselves doing something when I see
right
talks has gone pretty deep apparently
she didn't hit any longer unless she did
but okay she probably has more diamond
that's good but not very good of
creative because then it makes you sad
so I really hope to find a show you off
of cave round if that's possible and
she's here is taught tool I think or not
I tots so I'll take
oh good okay so with the lava go the
love is over here so since our hole goes
here land over here and then you keep
going over here I'll hear some marble
which is an interesting blog to find
let's go over
I've encountered so mess which I was
talking about with the chest you five so
you probably won't find a cave room
because you have to go really far but
it's still kind of fun finding all the
caves and the new ores from different
gods and I might try and go a little bit
deeper off the camera because I don't
want it to be too boring for you guys
and before the video ends I might want
to tell you how to connect to the server
actually I would like to tell you not
right so around the end of the video
which is pretty soon I'll try and tell
you how to connect to the server because
i really enjoy if you could come online
and help maybe help find a cave room to
your rooms are really deep so don't have
very high hopes of finding one of those
soon whoa
so decays can place it or just I'll just
keep taking some more darkness sorry
that you guys can't see anything I can't
see anything either but if we hit a cave
room you will see something because it
is so bright in a game room it's full of
crystals full of diamonds full of
everything that you can go for it you
still gave some more meds because miss
goes in the dark for some reason okay
because if you're in a dark cave you'll
be able to get 352 came from ms doesn't
look like you're gonna hit one but if we
for digging it this right we'll be able
to find one easily so it looks like I've
did I find a table that is creepy
in the whole of dark
if you love update do not see okay sorry
for my sniffing I've got it yeah looks
like we're not hitting a cave round so
trying to find ones to money but looks
like the video has got to go to an end
before I wrap it off I'll show you how
to get to connect to the server and off
camera I'll try and find a cave room
because you guys do want to see it
whether you know it or not because k
bronze are so impressive it's very good
mod oh and we've hit lava so this is
where we're going to leave off and write
those weird so yeah so will quickly show
you how to connect to this server and
i'm pretty sure it's in the public
server list but it's not popping up
right now and i really hope you enjoyed
this random video full of parkour and
mining and digging and all kinds of
things like that I'm really glad that
three were fans came on because when i
logged in just a few minutes before the
video started there was barely anybody
online so it's just a coincidence that
they joined just at the right time so if
you liked what this video and would like
to see more
them things on our fund servers and
would like to connect then please leave
a like and tell us in the comment
section below if you have any questions
about any of the mods I've installed or
anything like that goodbye
