what exactly is give love well what is
it yes so give love is a world first vr
donation platform and what that means is
that organizations causes charities are
able to upload their content in the form
of 360 videos and tell their stories and
then end users like yourself and we are
able to go to the oculus app store
download the app review that content and
at any time
donate seamlessly through that set wow
that's that's absolutely amazing so um I
think you said oculus like what
platforms will this be available upon so
our launch platform is the oculus app
stores gear VR headset so right now
we're considering it to be kind of a
single user in-home experience but we do
have plans in the roadmap to support
group experiences going forward that's
amazing um is it free to download or is
it like a one-time cost or absolutely
free that is absolutely amazing now how
the heck does somebody like this come up
with this like whose idea was it to
let's change the world by using virtual
reality like how do you guys come up
with that idea like it must be crazy
ya know it's a great question so we work
with an organization called 3,000 mile
Stoke here and what they do is they fund
brain cancer research so years back we
had developed a Google glass prototype
for them that allowed them to keep in
touch with their donors well while they
had an event called Race Across America
where the bikers could bike across the
country and then they would seamlessly
be able to receive donations and this
was kind of the evolution of that so we
wanted to know how do we make it easier
for people to keep in touch and one of
the insights that we got from them was
that there was a time lapse that occurs
between the point of impact when someone
feels compelled to donate and the point
at which they're actually able to and
this helped us close that gap that's
amazing because today I've been hearing
a lot about like kind of like the social
impact of ER like things like
multiplayer getting more social but to
know that you can physically change the
world now for the better by putting on a
head said that's that's pretty darn cool
um that's that's just amazing so like
how would an organization get involved
like this so like if there's like an
organization that's trying to like look
after water or
would they come to you guys like or do
you go to them or how that work for
these organizations so a little bit of
both right now
we're doing some organic outreach some
PR this is actually the first place that
we're demoing right here at VRT OH
so for now it's both if organizations
are interested they can reach out to us
at the primary comm slash give love and
yeah we'd be be happy to talk that's
that's that's amazing are you guys going
to give a lot of love out there we're
trying to I just do or do not there is
no try you know - okay thank you so much
your help guys that's that's pretty cool
[Music]
[Applause]
