it is Q Tuesday January 13 2015 and here
are the stories were covering this leap
from the why didn't I think of that file
a 9-volt battery that adds Wi-Fi
functionality to any smoke smoke alarm
toyota is releasing nearly 6,000 patents
covering hydrogen fuel cell technology
Bluetooth wearables for babies Thank
you're good at poker try playing against
an opponent who cannot lose that's what
Canadian researchers have created and an
extra second on the clock this June may
cause problems with the computer systems
will tell you what to expect in a second
these stories are coming right up don't
go anywhere introducing Beltone first a
revolutionary new hearing aid so small
you can hardly see it so comfortable you
can hardly feel it for the first time
ever you can control hearing aids
directly from your iPhone pick up the
phone listen to music and use your
hearing aids like wireless headphones
hear everything that matters try Beltone
first for a free trial call one eight
hundred Bell tone now I'm not should do
medicine here the top stories from
category 5 TV
there's an enormous amount of connected
home devices being shown off at CES this
year but one of our favorites is also
one of the simplest the roofed smart
battery is the size and shape of a
normal 9-volt battery the type that
smoke detectors use but with a built-in
Wi-Fi chip that allows it to communicate
with your phone until now if you're a
smoke alarm went off when you words at
home you'd have no way of knowing unless
a kindly or angry neighbor gave you a
call with the roost battery you'll get a
notification as well as the usual ear
shattering noise from the alarm itself
and can turn the alarm off directly from
your phone which means no more climbing
up on chairs desperately trying to pull
the cover off while also covering your
ears and hopefully the end of the
dangerous practice of taking the battery
out of the alarm while you cook all you
great cooks out there not the point any
fingers but area burns the chicken I
thought it was the timer what's the
sauce ready the really excellent thing
about the roost is that it fits into any
existing smoke alarm that takes a 9-volt
battery you don't need a whole new
system to use it that's a real plus for
renters who wouldn't be able to install
something like the nest protect mm-hmm
which I guess answers my question of
whether or not it's actually a 9-volt
battery like that could be used for
anything and have the connectivity or
whether it is difficult for I think this
is genius this is smart this is like you
said one of those things that why didn't
I think of that yeah is this patented
like this is that every time I think
about the resilient ripoffs left right
and center we got that rooster now we
got the Bruce okay so nine volt battery
that powers the alarm is lithium as you
mentioned and and so it lasts a long
time but so what happens when a smoke
alarm goes off yeah so you it makes a
lot of noise this is incredible this is
I mean a smoke alarm will make a lot of
noise your phone will light up it'll
tell you you can turn the alarm off
your phone rave but the battery itself
has like an audit audio sensor so when
the smoke alarm goes off it says to the
battery hey there's there's something
really really loud it's the smoke alarm
time to notify the app and connect to
the Wi-Fi and so this would be really
good for alarm systems like home alarm
systems well I hope that they would be
connected anyways yeah I hope so I'm all
froggy got CA would get you connected oh
come on huh come up but you give us this
this is smart yeah and that's probably
why they call it a smart battery and I
just realized that the best part the
part of like the most is that you don't
have to get up on a chair to turn the
thing off my poor dog is horrified at
the smoke alarm not that I ever per set
it off I was smart and i mounted it
right at the kitchen entrance that was
wise the toaster is in proximity to that
but yeah alright more about the battery
oh there's more oh there's more we are
not done with this story it uses a
lithium-ion power rather than the usual
alkaline which means as Robbie said
it'll last five years instead of a
typical 9-volt batteries one year
lifespan the app is available on iOS and
Android and the roost battery is
available to pre-order worldwide for
about forty dollars or 26 pounds
depending on how many you order my guess
is the more you order the less it'll
cost per unit and it will be delivered
in the second quarter of this year so
affordable smart I like it next story is
the car-maker Toyota has announced that
it will freely share almost 6,000
patents at owns covering hydrogen fuel
cell technology sharing is caring it
said it took the step in a bid to drive
development of cars that use the
alternative fuel source the announcement
was made soon after it showed off its
Mirai hydrogen driven car in Las Vegas
the patents will be made available free
of charge to anyone wanting to use them
the patent portfolio covers fuel cell
stacks high-pressure hydrogen tanks
software control systems and the
industrial processes involved in
generating and supplying the gas Bob
Carter senior vice president of
automotive operations at Toyota said
when good ideas are shared great things
can happen he added that the first
generation of hydrogen fuel cell
vehicles which are expected to be
launched over the next five years would
require unconventional collaboration
among car makers government's power
firms and researchers Toyota's move
follows out of Tesla Motors which shared
its patent portfolio in 2014 way to go
Toyota like I really like the idea of at
technology advancing and being open to
so many different ideas collaborative
that's the key word irri collaborative
engineering see how she finishes we we
work well together I think that that's
what's gonna draw that drive that's
gonna drive the innovation because what
would have happened had gasoline-powered
engines been patented when automobiles
were in bed well who gets to develop the
cars that one cup so it doesn't make any
sense sometimes technology should not be
patented or at least should be openly
available as far as the patents go yeah
because it's like if it was just bored
he was making cars it'd be a cute as
huge monopoly oh no way falling apart
any all these cars all over you know
maybe forward and there'd be crafty cuz
just do other car Kody's car cars are
powered that did know auti what
voldemort ins stuff I don't iotas oh no
come on what a world what a
I'm really happy to see that the
technology is advancing away from
gasoline-powered cars through that so
way to go toyota and tesla alright
here's a great story a baby's cries may
no longer be a parent its first clue
that something is wrong Bluetooth and
wireless equipped pacifiers patches and
bottles were on show at CES the
futuristic parenting aids will fit in
mom and dad's pocket want to monitor the
temperature of a sick child just fasten
the temp track a flexible patch that
works as a digital thermometer for 24
hours the patch will send temperature
updates to any smartphone yours
grandma's or the babysitter's connected
to an accompanying app if the child
surpasses the priest set fever level the
app will send an alert Matt ream the
company's vice president of marketing
said in the middle of the night if your
child's temperature is spiking it can
alert you to that that's just one of
many new or improved baby wearable
technology showcased at the consumer
electronics show in las vegas Robbie hi
questions comments thoughts concerns did
you well first of all did you say new
improved sarcastically okay let's just
take this back like a few billion years
I don't know when mammals first became
you know but look I I just how do we go
into this is it that now we need help
figuring out when our babies are sick I
am sorry I think that this is ridiculous
okay i love the tech Billy this is a
technology show Sasha technology the
technology in a lake in a in a setting
like a hospital but when you're already
well baby or if a child that's
critically ill but there's no need to
send parents into a panic about the fact
that their child might spike a fever in
the middle of the night okay I don't
like to slap a cancer-causing catch on
to it yeah just it i'm gonna show you
something people at home
just in case you're thinking this is a
good idea healthy yay no fever she's
good to go ok and here is the other
thing this is the sometimes I have like
a little dark side thought alright and
so your baby gets sick and you don't
have one of these patches the fever
patches on its pacifier and you bring it
to the hospital and they give you the
rundown because you're an unfit parent
because if you haven't been tracking
this top here that's its temperature
your child opposite yeah your child
isn't plugged in I just what about what
about those parents who don't want their
kids to have a pacifier or the parents
who want or the kid who doesn't want to
pass a fire now all of us and you're
gonna probably have diapers that have
like digital readings on whether or not
we're getting attrition okay and there's
a problem with that because somebody out
there is patenting that I'm thinking
that's a great idea yeah oh look the
baby's wet I gotta go change it yeah the
baby got enough liquid today but hey how
impersonal is that as far as parenting
goes I don't want to get into a
parenting rant on a technology show cuz
the technology right but seriously I
fear that this is the this is what it's
kind of coming to you see when you go to
the park the parents sitting there
looking at their phone instead of their
kid and the kids saying daddy daddy look
at me look at what i can do look alike
uh-huh you know when they won't even go
into the bedroom to check your
temperature anymore you know what's
funny that dad probably has a camera
strapped onto that child so instead of
watching what the child can do he's
probably watching on his phone I can see
what you see son but I do not like this
one little bit okay
on too much better gambling a team of
researchers from the University of
Alberta Canada have claimed they have
solved the simplest form of poker with
the creation of an algorithm that could
make sure they could not lose the
researchers do not claim they've created
a constant winning formula only that the
computer program performs moves designed
not to allow it to lose a strategy the
researchers claim is closer to a
break-even version of the game so now
you can't play poker against me because
I'm from Canada published publishing
their research in the popular science
during all the researchers claim the
poker planned community could rethink
some unpopular strategies they have
proved even create a higher winning
percentage not all the revelations
uncovered by the creation of the cepheus
algorithm were shocking with the
research team proving the dealer does
hold an advantage over all other players
the research team believes this is the
first time a computer has been developed
that is capable of playing a perfect
game in an imperfect environment
problems for the program include not
knowing which cards and opponent on hold
I'd like to say a problem with any poker
game isn't if you know what the other
cards are you're cheating the research
team has placed the algorithm online for
the public to challenge and play poker
calm like don't play this guy he will
rip you off of all your money following
the rules laid out by cepheus should
lead to no player losing until another
makes a mistake that they can capitalize
upon Wow so yeah you just can't lose so
why play I would be afraid hearing this
news of somebody using this kind of
technology to to win online yeah now
don't worry because they are Canadian so
they're honest and trustworthy well
could never quite tell ya never quite
tell ya
no kidding cool oh is that a Colleen
Jack okay um give me a second here for
this next story june thirtieth will be a
second longer than any other day this
year a leap second needs to be added in
2015 to make sure the time on atomic
clock stays in sync with the Earth's
rotational time but some internet
companies are dreading the day Earth's
rotation has been slowing down by about
two thousandth of a second every day but
atomic clocks which are now accurate up
to coach millionths of a second don't
change pace while this situation isn't
an immediate problem it would eventually
cause claw cops to become so out of sync
with the Earth's rotation that they
would read noon during the dead of night
in billions of years that would be true
the solution is the solution that the
International earth rotation service or
iers came up with is to add a second
every now and then to keep the standard
atomic time in sync with the Earth's
time this year the extra second is
scheduled for the midway point in the
year at eleven 59 59 p.m. coordinated
Universal Time on june thirtieth if you
are born june thirtieth your birthday is
extra special this year this will be the
26th leap second added to a calendar
year since the practice began in 1972 in
the past the extra second has messed up
with computer systems the last leap
second was added in 2012 and it caused
big problems for companies like Reddit
linkedin gizmodo and Foursquare so to
explain that problem it's during the
leap second the computer clocks shows 60
seconds instead of simply rolling over
to the next minute or shows the 59th
second twice the computer sees a leap
second as time going backward the
Machine registers this is a system error
and the CPU can overload there are
subtle irregular there are subtle
irregularities in the Earth's orbit from
year to year on the millisecond
hole every few years some fine-tuning is
needed and a leaf second is added in
June or December this is why jun 30th
this year we'll have 80 6401 seconds
instead of 86,400 please let me know if
your birthday is june thirtieth wow I I
just don't know how important it is to
be honest Robbie well striker for
example in the chat room 8 making
mention that it's not just the computer
and Internet companies but also
satellite communications could be
affected people are concerned about
possibly airplanes being affected by
this because if the computer thinks oh
what just happened because there's
really it only happens it's happened
what 20-something times in all of times
well what why not just let it ride it's
it's really not that big a deal in my
opinion do you think it's gonna take a
billion years before a really long time
before noon is in the middle of the
night and Sasha truth be told yeah well
as we all know time boggles my mind
anyway but I what time is it in Bermuda
like is it like march 1000 we down right
now but who's to say it's not gonna
speed up later we're just gonna have to
add seconds on perfect rack seconds or
you know it's just taking a rest as
dreamweaver 909 is saying in the chat
room is just the earth is getting tired
yeah when I'm tired I want somebody just
give me a couple extra seconds in the
day so that I can just take it a little
slow right but um I I just yeah I have a
question oh you do okay how does the
earth slow down it here's my answer to
this cuz it's got its global warming
people its global neg probably is not
really slowing down we've only been
tracking the earth for a while right so
it probably goes through this all the
time it's probably just you know it just
goes slower sometimes and faster other
cessation kind of a theory sometimes it
goes faster sometimes it goes start give
it a pattern fire will
because we're moving through the Galaxy
right and so the magnetic poles of
different planets again start planning
yeah are going to affect the rotational
speed of the earth but you know what's
going to happen if they don't add this
millisecond it's the same thing that
happens because I made fun of global
warming a little bit but fact is when
you know it's a little bit warmer this
year than it was last year and so
everybody thinks oh well there's this
big crisis going on and you know well
how long have we really been tracking it
the same stuff going on for four years
well if they didn't add the leap second
would it be five years from now people
saying how come it's getting bright 15
minutes earlier Oh or this or that or
you something's different it really it
boils down to our mathematical genius as
a human race that we can't really get it
precise so we have to add a little bit
here like the leap year every four years
to accommodate 365.2420 we have to add a
day because the mathematics are off I
think so why don't we just add two days
every you know like 20 years or
something after all these seconds add up
I just I really because then we would
never have a white Christmas it boils
down to having a white dispatch to only
those in the Western Hemisphere yeah
okay uh all for all your tech news with
a slight Linux bias visit the category 5
TV news room at newsroom category 5 i've
got TV so the category 5 TV news room
i'm sascha dramatis
