welcome to our Google+ Hangout folks
nice to see ya welcome to category 5
technology TV studio D and I'm gonna
work basically just gonna hang out with
you tonight so feel free to to interact
with us if you're on google+ and will
hand the microphone around so anyone
here if you have anything they want to
share say then that then just grab the
microphone also Sasha tomatoes is going
to take us on a live tour of the studio
so if you have any questions as we go
through that make sure you share those
with us on the Google+ Hangout as well
and we'll be able to hear you and we do
see the chat room in front of us we see
your cameras as well uh and this is
being recorded and broadcast through
YouTube as well so if you want to catch
at any of those waste it's available so
uh so I'm Robbie Ferguson on the host of
category 5 technology TV and I'll pass
this around so that everyone can reduce
themselves I've been with the show since
I'm 33 years before it started I'm I'm
Jensen I use the camera guy basically
just point around looking at where where
was the show sister I am Kelsey Jensen
that is my brother I've been with the
show for about a year now I'm on the
co-hosts I started off just as like a
okay fill in if someone couldn't make it
but now I'm like a bona fides oh pretty
much her did me um hi I'm Kerri web and
um Robbie asked me to co-host the first
anniversary show way back in the day um
and I was so happy to do that and that
was hosted um in the area not in the
normal studio certainly not in a studio
like this um so it's just amazing to be
here and see how far the show has come
and all the work that Robbie and the
whole team has done so i co-hosted for
how long Robbie on and off for two years
yeah can you hey I hope so yeah maybe I
can't see the chat room can you hear us
I just can you guys hear us right now
can someone give us a thumbs up or any
okay cuz uh it didn't look like we were
getting levels there we were talking
everything it was awesome it's working
ah yeah I can't hit I figured out how to
make Google go alright let's go back to
carry web awesome um that's pretty much
all day to say yeah it was gonna be one
day I was just supposed to be the
co-host for the first anniversary show
and Robbie just let me keep coming back
here I today so yeah I'm very thankful
um that he still welcomes me and lets me
pop in for Christmas things and for
hangouts like this so yeah hello to you
all hello to all of you who have been
around for the eight years and it's good
to see you as every the world I'm
Hillary rumble and I am here because of
Karrie Webb she actually introduced me
to Robbie like five years ago all right
you're right we didn't actually meet
your right well I thought I did knock I
did knock that would be the polite thing
that's true you're right
we'd never met and Rihanna strange I met
Robbie through Jen wagger and that's
what and then we talked over Facebook a
bunch and then we met I guess kind of
like he knew my mom but when the
question comes out how do you know all
the colors it well he knew it my mom and
dad introduced Kelsey to rob is my
roommate just weird the circle of
friendship here it's all very
interconnected anyways I'm here because
of carry five years ago I guess five
years ago I don't know and we went to
school together high school and we were
in Wizard of Oz together why was a
munchkin and true was a flow test
fine Dennis Dennis Dennis it's the
apocalypse Dennis Dennis okay just hold
on watch minute with the vacuum what
we're gonna save the vacuuming until
later okay hillary was just saying how
we knew each other that we went to high
school together and yet we're up in the
same kind of small town I am Sasha
dramatis I am now the news anchor and
but I started as a co-host 23 years ago
all right yeah very end of season 5 and
now it's season 8 and we know i'm weird
with time but i'm pretty sure that's
three years so um and I met Robbie my
chiropractic clinic so there we go and
now that I have okay sasha was the
receptionist at the chiropractic clinic
that I went to two and I here somehow
you being on this it's it happen it
happened because um well at first Robbie
thought he was having a stroke and I
talked him down he did not have a stroke
um and then a week after week at first
with chiropractic care you you come
quite frequently um and he kept asking
me if I would co-host to show and I kept
thinking that no just you know I I was
nervous wonders if you remember my thigh
was totally completely not ready to be
in front of a camera um but he kept
asking and finally I came on as an
occasional and
loved it when I first came in it was
studio one of my first my first ever
episode is the end of season 5 live
audience like on a stage with a bunch of
people so that was a crazy wait they'll
Elvin and then I went to studio seat and
now here we are in Studio B now I'm
going to do a tour video do it and stop
talking about myself so welcome to the
Hangout we're gonna as sasha was saying
we're gonna take you on a tour we're
going to do this in kind of an
interesting way we've got telecast and
I'll bless you and we've got a an ipod
touch and we're gonna see if we can make
this thing go so let's see what we can
do so bear with us as we get this set up
shouldn't take long talk amongst
yourself what oh yes Oh TARDIS they were
asking what TARDIS stands for its time
and relative dimension in space hardest
or D is yeah it is a lot of fun and what
what is the context for TARDIS this is
not I've never heard of this before hi
it's well um it's from a british sci-fi
show called doctor who it's been going
on for over 50 years it is the
longest-running sci-fi television show
i'm actually gonna stand up because it's
what everyone else is doing um it's
about this alien named the doctor I know
he's great it yeah he's from the planet
of Gallifrey in the cast herbalists
cluster a really bad name sorry about
that guys
um basically travels around the universe
with companions and saves people and
planets and that's it's wonderful he's
he saved the earth on multiple occasions
because could you imagine Hannah yes
could you imagine a jetpack in this
weather insane that's all I do I read
the news on Tuesdays and then I talk
about the news until next Tuesday are
that's creepy I want to hear more if you
didn't already not like Barbie for your
kids talk to them now yeah I remember
when I was younger like I had at least
20 Barbies when I was not gonna always
wanted more and then I got into brats
remember brats with the removable feet
my mom my mama the club yeah then
removable feet yeah well the Hat stayed
home with the feet like that you can
actually take off the feet too remote to
change the shoes that's how you change
their shoes my mom my name hi gang Eric
kid everybody welcome amber good to see
you sag when I got to Welham Road okay I
got you before I welcome welcome newer
yeah we're gonna we're just about to
take the tour yeah but even I American
all you're gonna get it's all you can
again all right we're gonna talk to Eric
in a few minutes and he'll tell us what
he's been up to and you'll have a chance
to ask him questions and all that kind
of stuff I've got the ipod ready and you
ready to do this okay I'm gonna just
switch around over here let's take you
through and if you have any questions
folks feel free to
speak up and Sasha can hear you so go
ahead you just sneak I think they can
hear you now oh yeah I can hear me okay
so let's start I guess well we'll start
with the green screen which is my area
this is the newsroom which doesn't look
anything like this one of Y so I can't
wear any green at all when I'm here 00
creepy this is so this here actually is
the screen that I read could we show
them a little bit of the teleprompter so
there we go this is what I'm scrolling
through except for the witty banter card
that part I just think yeah I'm not
gonna go all the way through to your
boss you'll see all of the things I said
wrong today if you pay too much
attention very calm tell now this this
is a huge studio so I don't know if your
will remember last time when I did the
studio c we just like kind of stood in
one spot I could just wait today so this
is where Adam stays behind this camera
here and is that still on I mean yes
really oh great ok this is what Adam
sees cameras on that wall is not real
brick that is however real what is it
TARDIS that's that is a real artist
bigger on the inside here it's awesome
green as a cultic raver that we had the
green tables yeah craft service table
masters cable and watch
her photo frames of our co-host we've
got a whole wall here we could fill up
so send in your photos hmm one you're
sending your photos also send in your
postcards there's a postcard wall so
there we have that actually we've got oh
i should mention there's a the newest
article is right there oh nice the
studio open house yep but i want to
bring you back to this picture frame
here because I like this picture which
are some guys watching category 5 from
where were they Ravi Afghanistan
Afghanistan so how happy they are all
right so when we do interviews which we
got a thought we did a 3d printer
interview um we do them right here these
chairs um oh we have behind these wall
the use of Spock's did I show you the
useful spot saucer we're really yeah all
right there is room to swing a cat all
right is gonna show your desk yet here
no not really okay this is kind of the
audio rig and servers and you'll be able
to explain this more sure well it's the
same same gear that we had in studio see
you really just repositioned and set up
for a larger studio set this is what it
looks like from Robbie's point of view
during a show we see we've got these
lights soft boxes kind of everywhere see
sashes there saw a cup a little bit far
area there this year is job box the John
Papa is John Han line that he could
John are you signal us with sub jaw is a
viewer from the Netherlands he's been
with us since season so we created a
java it allows him to in fact send us
notifications if if something's gone
wrong so in my periphery here as I'm
broadcasting the show we've got the
other there we go Jeff that's here ready
to go and you'll notice too that over on
the computer it pops up a notification
window with the same message so we get
that all over studio yeah so John kind
of works as a pseudo executive producer
that he's amazingly helpful um and well
I guess that concludes I believe does it
conclude well anything else hey anything
else you want to see let us know we're
here that's this year and this is an
audience seating for 10 people just kind
of cool yeah that's actually our co rack
yeah yeah lovely co-writes hmm very good
okay well we'll switch back to the main
camera if if you guys don't have any
questions for the tour do you have
questions for the tour feel free to
mention now I like up the mobile camera
with me how Ravi just speak are they
speaking there's no way the whole world
that way make sure you unmute your
microphone too okay I'm gonna switch
back over here is tell a stream Wirecast
you see there's our google plus there's
telestream Wirecast
go yeah guys use your microphones if you
can unfortunately Dennis Kelly's having
some trouble with his webcam so yeah
speak to us guys speak to us hey I'm got
and I've been here with the show a few
weeks after Carrie so I've been one of
the longest viewers everybody saying I
got every why is everybody introducing
themselves cuz so far just got well
everyone else introduce yourselves
because we don't know who you were my
face hello I'm Frank and I miss Wigan
York hi okay no wanna see a tree no are
you in harden New York Frank oh yeah I
guess your fav wouldn't be Tennessee
Frank woody i'm showing you happier hi
questions anybody questions comments
thoughts concerns I think you all doing
a good job here thank you John
love that sound what what is that look
somebody's cell phone maybe my spidey
not I just want to say it's so good to
finally see what you look like I was so
happy to see your name in the chat room
it's wonderful to to see you and you've
just been such a faithful viewer and
participant and so thank you I say JA
use let's see you started about it just
a few weeks after yeah and you've been
growing your beard ever since trait well
I actually cut it short sometimes not
lately cause of the cold what would
drink it just pass it to me I've no idea
what to do uh yeah I don't know what's
it a problem just you need your part of
the improv Club do this Shay you got
this ok um so Sasha wanted to know what
I've been doing lately last night I was
in the thing and Ontario I think
probably all of Canada where it's like
yeah it's called the Sears drama
festival so we have the art cop this
year's competition read our competition
for this year last night which went
really well I was very happy about it
and then yeah you were in The Wizard of
Oz I I I played the Tin Man In The
Wizard of Oz so it's very dear to me yes
at the gravenhurst Opera House no 18
years yeah
is doughnut apology our high school play
so I was a band geek the clues ahead I
um okay don't laugh but you know the
flying monkeys well my sister boy monkey
oh no I okay so the other bad guys are
called the Winkies and I was the winky
general leader of the Winkies general
blinky general Winky so that was my big
major role with my one line that I said
you are now our queen my one line I
haven't forgotten it I was also a
munchkin and a puppy oh yeah big
important role for the win come over
here buddy been a long time mmm good is
he I think somebody's got your cell
phone on or what's that noise DJ you're
hearing oh it's an extremely of don't
don't forget to meet at your mind is
actually talking Douglas could I get you
to yeah exactly what job was saying
maybe mute your microphone while you're
not talking in a and then turn it back
on winning that when you are going to
talk a change here so Erica long time
okay thats the like you've been trying
to get Erica to come and co-host for
quite some time and I said well the
question is often you know where's Eric
barbi every week says where's Eric is he
coming back in
and I always say you know yeah I see
your name up in lights and you're
gigging like crazy and but I've been
doing lots lots of gigs playing my
guitar and singing but I'm also tonight
I just came from the one of the rec
center said I was teaching a ukulele
glass so yeah so a lot of teaching I'm
teaching lots of guitar ukulele and
banjo and mandolin stuff like that so
cool sorry ever gonna have a Tuesday
night free we'll see I'm I'm Way better
on short notice you know you need risks
ok now you know where we're at that's
hard to plan a monthly grandma I has had
this horrible cold actually lovely let's
go see man yes but he didn't explain oh
how to he didn't actually expect me to
show up because i just opened up the
little beer fridge and there's pop and
stuff in it what's with that Robbie ok
well there's a party of st. lous
actually with each and every passing
years there's been a lot of chicken
wings and beer this is cold a bit so I'm
gonna get I you know maybe if I starting
now you could catch up to jot speared
that's quite where is John he's hi out
there he is ok there is all right when
you uh you almost have a we're gonna
call that a soul patch right okay that's
what that is I have nothing interesting
to say yeah ladies and gentlemen but
there's how many questions for us so
we'll be quiet so that you can speak up
and maybe try to follow to the best of
our time
I'm late to the party hello hey Douglas
waiting for you really well you know my
beloved toronto maple leafs and somebody
asked me today what the Toronto Maple
Leafs in the Titanic have in common
they're both looking pretty good until
they hit the ice oh here I'll give you
this and then they are sinking okay will
quiet down so you can you can ask us
questions or talk to us hey Dad was
waiting for you I'm sure you were well
you know that Rome a believe sir it's
not somebody asked me today but the drum
a believes in the Titanic have in common
they're both looking criminal in here I
know this is a feel like of categories I
had one big jaw you look awesome I had
one buddy never getting back to me back
I think it's here here you never touch
it
Adam licking the meineke number on you
repeat the question please how did this
madam like he night in the camera um
it's all right uh I could again all
right i mean not really easy but i guess
a i wouldn't mind having microphone
sometimes cuz i puts it look i am
putting lipstick but yeah um but yet
sorry it's kind of fun just sitting
there not be on the puck point point
wherever robbery sides to get up and
walk off do it i found that a very
common theme especially when i first
started just Robbie's your stand-ups all
something alright that's cool all right
yeah sorry we just we just with my
girlies I'm sorry oh we just switched
Adam to a DSLR so how are you finding
your working with a manual focus now
everything zoom and focus is completely
manual now the new camera is definitely
very different from the last one it's a
lot front heavier so we can get finite a
counterweight for the Hat um so I find
it's pretty under control but the me the
focus it just with the difference in
range it doesn't really get her just
finely adjusted it's not not too big not
too big of a hassle Oh any time we're in
between questions I'm gonna just turn
off our mic so that you can speak so
that our ours is kind of off for a
moment
does that I'm ever makes funny faces yes
and if I month it usually directed at me
I'm not really question I just wanted to
mention the Roku live feeds really
working great now I mean it's really
been improved since i first started
watching great news is it Frank yes
Frank swig of New York yes bring your
Frank thanks for being here and that's
that's really encouraging because as you
know we had some trouble getting the
roku feed to be reliable and part of
that is how that they had a firmware
buggin in the roku firmware but
fortunately we were able to work around
than that so I'm glad to hear that
thanks have any questions for any
specific person we can all hear you so
just to say our name and I'll pass the
microphone room
how is Sasha liking her Linux's some
thank you for asking I i like it i will
i don't use it very often for more than
just checking my emails and sometimes
putting entries in on my blog but i have
a blog well I sort of how I have a blog
that I haven't updated in awhile um I'm
still finding it slightly intimidating
like the little things that I know I
still have to learn but I love the way
it looks as early as that is I really
like how it it looks and it performs
similar to any other computer or
operating system that I've ever used so
now it's just a matter of actually
getting down to the nitty-gritty and
being able to understand everything that
robbie says from episode to episode so I
do appreciate the fact that the chat
room is always active so when I do
finally get the guts to actually try
something I can always call upon you so
that's nice thank you and I guess I've
learned quite a bit from being on the
show it's been a really big learning
experience because when I came on I knew
almost next to nothing about technology
and now that I'm you know I've been on
the show for about a year now I know
quite a bit like I can do basics with
computer software which is nice like
it's nice to be able to learn some watch
and short on time that's great for the
show I think it's awesome yeah
questions Oh Lucy not really a question
i might add up and using links for about
two years myself i really enjoy it and I
don't really like to use windows anymore
I main desktop without linux ubuntu
maite and it's I don't want novo so
hopefully nobody spying on me but I also
enjoy Linux light at a lab type that top
1st day- mouth and its really been a
great experience i'm really enjoying it
oh cool thank you for your comment
that's really exciting to hear and we
love that people are watching and
learning and loving um I just wanted to
say goodbye my world I'm sorry I have to
go I've had a crazy busy day but it was
nice to see you on thank you for joining
and keeping it real I'm gonna pass it on
to whoever Robbie Carrie I just want to
say cookies hey Louise the winky general
now she no more cool beans do you want
to explain that wait the winky general
explain Winky generous or explain cool
beans five to explain cool beans you are
not coding wiki general is sort of Oz so
that was my big role which of course led
you to this amazing dish in on category
five so just goes to show you there's no
such thing as a small role only small
actors except the show's lock item we're
not acting this is actually me and this
is actually real stop thanks for the
memories kids catch you next time here's
kelsey oh hello again I was hand to the
microphone by Hilary so yeah hi you're
just I also have to go um but only
because it's nine o'clock here which is
probably three o'clock in the morning
and although it yeah it's Wednesday
there it's Tuesday night here and I have
to go make dinner so it was yeah over to
the pop its wing night over at state
later if you're available 350 big bay
point head on over there um
what a great opportunity to get to
actually hang out with you guys I know
that you watch us all the time but I
never get to actually see your faces
thank you and I will see you next week
oh and thank you everybody for your
super awesome feedback about my new show
looking forward to doing more try it by
it that's right and where would I go to
watch this show oh okay all right bye
Sasha everybody wave to Sasha okay okay
Rob he'll tell you how to find that show
we have this website category five dot T
yeah yeah so TI bi is try it by it so TI
bi dot category five TVs website to go
so many other questions for us anyone
here Oh Kerry has a question how often
will we see try it on category five yeah
I guess that too that's the oil that's
going to be a case of as we could get
products to review and then we've got to
write it we've got a pretty tough don't
produce it and I think it's gonna
probably be a kind of a once a month in
kind of idea so we'll see how it goes
and and certainly if you buy the
products that you see on dry by then
that's gonna help us to be able to grow
as well so did you paint the Tartan
tardis the tarp and the turkey I know
that's actually a funnel sticker so you
buy it in a roll and you just peel the
back off and unroll it onto the door so
but we meet thankee com awesome place
when we took over this place though this
used to be an industrial building and so
was I yeah yeah so I saw the whole
length of ball road no this door pardon
me had oil and and it was dirty and I
don't know it's just a storage room in a
in a factory kind of place so does the
real TARDIS have a st. John Ambulance
sticker yeah what's the real yeah it's
not like Simcoe County right probably
British yes that's how I covered up the
dirty okay I tried scrubbing it wasn't
coming so instead of buying a new door
over it up like most great people do
well it's like my bachelor days many
many years ago where instead of cleaning
the dishes I just throw them out and buy
new ones yeah why not right was it like
pâté would look like a paper plate thing
I do you buy like actual dishes like
ceramic whatever whatever the thrift
shop had for ten cents huh why buy paper
when you can buy ceramic it's classy but
he really does that do oh yeah don't be
on steam here they can't he chose the
chair next to the chair that you can see
very list there he is and now story time
with Eric kid sorry bastards it's
actually a real tarnish and if you go to
cut 5 30 feet / studio you can see how
it was pulled in over there thanks John
renovation project was filmed and put up
on the web so you two and then put in
fast motions it looks like he did it in
like 10 minutes little bit yeah couple
times yeah some speedy little clown
music yeah entertaining we painted all
the walls and we can't make it in
Florida to clean that up so didn't stain
and stegun the real reason Eric hasn't
it back so real work that had to be done
so people just disappeared and are we
going to put it in a category 5 sign
like in the old studio talk a little bit
about it we've got the one over here I
wish you can see but just just over Eric
shoulder the category by technology TV
uh but uh yeah we'll see I think it
might be a good idea at this point now
that the wallpaper is up and the brick
is actually wallpaper and then we'll
then we'll see what we can do good a
good local vinyl company that did this
one and it didn't cost too much so that
was I was pretty good so it's just how
we want to do it i think i just go with
a vinyl sticker right on the wall I'd
like to have some depth to it but the
price goes up right over and over and
try to be seen once I was noticing in
the viewer questions today well no we
didn't get to but someone was saying if
you have just hang it off the ceiling
and you make it look kind of like
rattling rustic or I don't know that you
love to check one of your actions it's
almost saying like if you use clips and
then just hanging off the ceiling I
thought about hanging too so that I
could have a bit of depth but then I
thought about swinging and so it would
always be in my option and and that
might be distracting on it really touch
it should take this wing but
I could see why do you guys hear that
every week we're dealing with these fans
in least they're not squeaking now right
oh yeah I remember that it was coming up
in the show I'm Sasha's uh initial
episode the the debut of try buy it
tonight it was filmed about a month ago
and then went into post-production so
all the visual effects and everything uh
but that was before I fix this Creek so
you notice that now there's there's an
under bed of music on try byah that was
actually to cover the squeak but I fixed
it since so now you just hear the wind
blown Sasha always has to sit outside
solar wind is there to you had to be a
little bit cold job it's it's
pitch-black right now otherwise I take
the camera inside for him there is
nothing bad right now but like I just
like a wind chills the past couple days
and so it's getting more guys getting
warm yay Oh to put it past her son's
soccer are you talking 20 degrees in
America Fahrenheit Fahrenheit always use
google never use be zero Celsius is 32
fahrenheit
right the swear so yeah so we r minus 11
so we're getting close to zero
Fahrenheit anything 14 okay apparently
were 14 very it's cool it's a little
nippy out I just learned that minus 40
degrees Celsius is the same as minus 40
degrees Fahrenheit I just learned that
so uh yeah I'm glad I'm not alone it's
the same as yeah will told me so great
oh the time the internet it's true must
be true oh no you know that's what it
was last week if you hang if you do hang
the sign you can use something old
styrofoam from boss to stabilize it away
from the wall the styrofoam attached to
the back would head would go against the
wall duct tape hey good meeting to give
it them so toot it move it out from the
wall what would I yeah like I do well if
you hang it from the ceiling you could
stabilize it by attaching styrofoam to
the back that would hit the wall that's
table put it on like a board or
something oh yeah and I put you me
behind you having this piece of
styrofoam sticking out from the back
maybe even attaching it with like a
piece of duct tape or something to the
wall decision you know so it doesn't
move right
hillary was here to interpret his on
language even know what are the things
he said were bad or not okay folks so
we'll give you you know what I'm gonna
turn off the Mike and let you speak so
if you have any questions for us we're
gonna wrap up our Google+ hangout for
put the night but we welcome your your
questions real quick before we before we
shut her down have a good night is that
it okay I'm just I'm sorry I missed the
big show glad to be here it's nice to
see her empty tank yep goodness feet
good to see Eric yeah it's been a while
there now rev DJ how long have you been
watching category 5 technology TV two
years I think two-year livin that a yeah
at least you can't think about tag think
about around the time like what what
happened milestones did anyone start
woman about women and Krista started her
uh no is that for Kristin before was
before Sasha before Lalonde a killer II
it was before he'll marry so our
timelines getting completely messed up
yeah Audrey was the third co-host so we
had oh before she got married oh ok so
before I forgot me oh yeah I thought I
thought you said before Hilary okay cool
good Eric Eric Eric was 12 he was 12
just acted like it starting to shave
so I'm gonna have to watch the show
later I missed it entirely was it good
of course you know episode for 388 I'm a
little bit biased but it was awesome you
must try by it I quite liked it yes i
mislike me liked it is that what it's
like Carrie being in an audience is that
job it's it's neat having an oh yes that
is John that's not okay yeah Danny's now
I know who to blame okay I never do
anything that's the trouble
Oh Robbie Wilson the chat room I don't
think we've seen Oh Robbie I said any
question to my son named that's that is
linux will you answer Android questions
um only if well i mean i have my
limitations as far as my knowledge right
i'd say that you know the people to talk
to about Aunt writer can be found in a
chat room well well this is I've seen a
way to run android apps on linux but i
haven't been able to get it work yet oh
really we did it an episode about
setting up a virtual machine with
android actually running in a vm which
is kind of cool you might want to look
back on our website to find in that
episode i'll do that i'm not i'm not a
big smartphone guru and speaking of
smartphone gurus that would probably be
the guy to talk to gwg in our chat room
how's the android buffet podcast so he a
fair bit about obviously knows what I
favorite about Android as far as the
platform goes excellent ok thank you
thank you thank you
discover the fart welcome are they gonna
sing them oh look at this wonderful book
of memories that Robbie made did you
make this rock Hilary actually brought
that typical we've got we've got a
couple of extras that she wanted us to
auction off so oh yeah Eric's gonna show
it's a all the photo album memories of
category 5 over the past seven years
that look like the episode that Sasha
had her debut on you got chip fingers oh
yeah chip fingers do yeah two fingers I
would like to have chip fingers so I'm
gonna give you the microphones for yoga
chips I'm done eating chips now well I'm
gonna sign off because uh I cut my dad's
hair so I promised him a haircut tonight
so I oh I don't know we could do it on
camera it's pricey d Oh actually knows
in high school my dad said that if I cut
his hair he would pay my car insurance
no I was 16 so I said yeah it was very
bad but he was very good gracious and
yeah I still cut his hair but
unfortunately he won't be my car
insurance go figure anyways so wonderful
to see you he reneged on the deal go
figure are you chip fingerless I sent
ships and I went for veggies the healthy
choice right Carrie it's so nice to see
ya it's always a pleasure to have you
stopped by I hope you'll let see us
again soon
it's cool have this audience area so
people can come and sit down and just
enjoy the show from actually known
actually comes you too well sometimes I
do we've had some might say whether it's
been pretty busy so many people also i
put my air if you pay my plane ticket
are your in holland yeah well the
netherlands was a different was another
one yes Oh wonderful well I couldn't
promise a good haircut I could buzz it
it for quite cheap what were you at
what is this i bought a macbook on my
way over here Oh last for me what at
least it's be so good blanket this is so
we could see if it blends at least she
has it so nobody else is forced to buy
it and use it well I won't put on tryna
buy okay maybe maybe you are we can see
if it is if he can send me cuz well we
really liked soos and with the paint and
everything oh dear sanding he's
referring to my beautiful modern job of
studio thank you thank you I covered it
with wallpaper oh yeah great to see you
carry thank you
