welcome to new everyday episode 157 I'm
running solo again Pastor Lawrence is on
vacation that's okay today we're gonna
be talking about the five love languages
for children it's a book written by Gary
Chapman I've been listening to it as an
audiobook the last couple of weeks have
been driving to work
mind-blowing concepts but really simple
concepts to understand on how you can
show love to your children how to have
you could help them feel loved maybe you
don't have children maybe if you could
use it on your grandchildren you can all
also apply the concept to your spouse
your significant other maybe you're
thinking of having kids in the future
you want to stick around because the
stuff we're gonna cover is going to
change the way that your family feels
loved this is new every day with Jeff
listing and the line screws
[Music]
welcome to new every day I'm Jeff Weston
pastor Lawrence is off again this week
he's on vacation that's okay
kind of jealous just a little bit I got
my vacation dogs that's all right
okay so here's the deal if you are just
tuning in you want to catch some past
episodes because you want to see hey how
good-looking is that faster Lauren Scott
or maybe you just want to cut past
topics this is the fourth season of you
every day and so there's a ton of
content before this you can check it out
on demand in many different platforms
you can get it on our web page at new
every day TV you can find us on Facebook
you can get us on roku Plex
Kodi YouTube if it's an on-demand player
we've got it out there you can also
check out our podcasts on the google
play google play music now of course
there's no visual to it because it's a
podcast but that's okay you still get
the same great message so all of our
past episodes are on Google Play Music
check it out and if maybe you're touring
the Southern California area you can
check us out Sunday mornings on kvv b tv
television for the high desert we're all
over the place
and that's what's exciting about the
show is there's always something new
always a new way to catch us and always
a new way to be able to find the shows
that you love now for today's episode
we're going to be kind of playing off a
little bit of last week's episode where
I talked about the vine the branches and
bearing fruit and one of those fruits is
love and the last couple of weeks when
I've been driving back and forth to work
you know as lawrence and i have
mentioned in the past I listen to
audiobooks and one that kind of caught
my attention was five love languages for
children from Gary Chapman now today's
episode it's not my idea it's not my
concept I'm gonna be talking about some
of the key concept in Gary's book the
five love languages for children because
it was absolutely profoundly
mind-blowing for me I like to think that
I know my kids well
as a dad I've been doing it now for 11
years so I've kind of been through most
situations you can run into well except
for teen years and you know that one's
still coming up but I think I've got a
good grasp on on my kids and how they
interact with me and how I can interact
better with them but what I was
listening to this book from Gary Chapman
it changed the way that I see my kids
because it gave me a whole new
perspective on why they are the way they
are and so if you've never read the book
the five love languages I highly
recommend that you do now this book the
five love languages for children is
geared specifically towards kids and the
reason for it is because kids view the
world differently than adults and I mean
I've heard of the five love languages
I've read some snippets of the book as
it relates to your spouse but I didn't
think of applying the concept to kids
and so when I saw this I was like I
gotta listen to the book I did and it
was um
it was challenging for me as a dad
because I realized I could do so much
better and I realized that there's a new
way that I could interact with my kids
and so I want to share some of those
ideas with you today so that you can
have a better interaction with your kids
if you've got children and maybe you
don't have children but you've got
grandchildren or you're thinking of
having kids in the future these concepts
that Gary raises in his book will last
forever
they're always applicable and so the
five love languages if you've never
heard of them they are the ways in which
we feel love it's one thing to say I
love you but it's another thing to show
it and so often you will find people who
say look I know my parents love me they
told me all the time that they love me
but I never really felt it and I
remember I was 19 maybe 18 and I
remember sitting with my dad in our shop
we're just hanging out on the couch just
talking
and I remember saying to my dad you know
I know that you love me because I feel
it but I would like to hear it more and
my dad was you know as any father was
absolutely willing to do it and he's
like son I am so sorry that I didn't you
know say it enough but I knew that my
dad loved me and we've always had a
great relationship but I remember that
day because it was a pinnacle day
because something did change and the way
that I had an interaction with my dad
moving forward there was a lot more
saying I love you and that's kind of the
reverse concept of what this book is
saying so often people say I love you
all the time but they don't necessarily
show it but what I didn't realize at the
time is that asking my dad to say I love
you was part of the way that I feel
loved
and so when I heard of the five love
love languages it identified for me why
that was such a pinnacle moment and the
five love languages are touch acts of
service gifts words of affirmation and
quality time those are the five key ways
in which we all feel loved whether you
are a little kid a teenager an adult or
a senior we all feel loved the exact
same way and all of those are ways in
which we feel loved but there's always a
primary love language mine is words of
affirmation I feel like a million bucks
when somebody says good job or points
out something specific that I've done
and encourages me on it and so for me to
say to my dad I want to hear you say I
love you was me asking him to affirm me
verbally to say son I love you my dad
would always hug me you'd always take me
you know to sports events and you know
we'd spend time in the garage together
and stuff like that but I wanted to hear
it and if you're listening today I want
you to pay attention to these five love
languages as it
lates to your children or maybe your
grandchildren or just kind of store this
in the back your head for when you have
children because as children grow they
are going to need lots of love my kids
are 7 9 and 11 and there's days like I
swear my daughter can't get enough love
she is always looking for more attention
and not in a bad way but I'll be sitting
there at the desk working she's like hey
daddy
can we or hey daddy did you see or hey
daddy and sometimes she'll just stand
there and you know lean her head up
against me she just wants to be around
me that's because my daughter's love
language is quality time
she loves time together it doesn't
matter what we're doing we could be
sitting down watching the TV we could be
reading a book together we could be
eating lunch together
as long as we are in close proximity
together and it's just her and I and
there's some eye contact and some some
genuine interaction that is enough to
fill her up
for five minutes and then she needs
another refill she has a massive what
Gary calls a love tank and you want to
make sure that love tank is full and so
some of the other love languages are
touch my middle child is hugely a touch
child and it's funny because as I'm
listening to the five love languages as
I'm driving to work we got to touch and
Kerry's like you know that kid that's
just always there always touching you
and just can't seem to not want to be
touched I'm thinking that's my son that
is 100% him it doesn't matter what it is
he wants you to play with his hair you
want you to rub his ear or he just wants
you to touch his back or he just wants
to come up and give you a hug or he
wants a kiss basically if there's a way
that he can have that physical
connection where he could tangibly feel
you he will soak it up he is such a
touch kid and with my son Luke sometimes
that can be a little bit much but that's
okay because I want to be able to show
him love and show that he's important to
me and sometimes it doesn't have to be
the affectionate kind of touch bedtime
so often we'll go to bed and I'll just
kind of flop on top of them and he's
like ah dad you're squishing me and I'll
give him a tickle and we'll just kind of
have fun and wrestle we wrestle all the
time but for him that is touch it is
that physical connection with me or with
my wife or with his siblings where we
can show him that he is important and he
matters and that we love him because we
are in his space bubble there is no
space bubble for him when he wants to
feel loved and so if you've got a touch
child in your life take a moment every
day a couple times a day to let them
feel loved maybe it's just rubbing their
back or stroking their hair or if you're
sitting down on the couch watching TV
just kind of lean over touch shoulder to
shoulder maybe it's a hug maybe you're
not a touchy family little acts of touch
can go a long way it might just be a
high-five a couple times a day do what
is comfortable for you but make sure
that you're doing it in an intentional
way to show love to your child now we're
gonna come back in a minute we're going
to talk about the other other love
languages and some tips that Gary gave
in this book on how to assess your
child's love language so don't go
anywhere
stick around for more from new every day
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV Network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts welcome back if
you're just catching the show we are
talking about the five love languages
for children from Gary Chapman know
Gary's not in the studio obviously he's
not here but I was listening to his
audiobook the last couple of weeks as I
was driving to work and the message that
he had in his book was so profound and
eye-opening for me I had to come here
and share with you I wanted to be able
to share because I think so many kids
nowadays need to feel loved and so
before the break we were talking about
words of affirmation I am a words of
affirmation purpose as a person and I
realize I'm not a kid but I as a kid I
loved hearing how amazing I was I know
that sounds conceited but it really was
important for me it's for somebody to
say he did a great job on that drawing
or or you know it was so good to see you
practice the way you did at baseball
those kind of things were absolutely
mind-blowing ly important for me we were
as well we've been talking about touch
and we touched a little bit on quality
time and I was talking about my daughter
but there's two other love languages
that are absolutely important as well
and one of them is gifts now in today's
society especially in North America
gift-giving is quite commonplace
we live in a marketed society where
there's a gift for everything and
commercialism abounds and it's easy to
get trapped in the idea of well
if my child feels loved via gifts I
should just buy them stuff and that's
not necessarily true because there's a
certain element of giving too much gifts
especially purchased gifts where your
child can become spoiled you don't want
to do that and Gary talks about that a
little bit in this book but gifts can be
anything where you have thought about
the person and given them something my
daughter her what I would call her
secondary love language is gifts and she
exhibits the desire to be loved that way
in the way that she loves others and
kids are like that
Gary talks about that in his book how
you know with younger kids they it's
easy to tell what their love language is
because that's the way they are and so
with my daughter she is always giving me
something she will pull out some you
know pipe cleaners you know those little
fuzzy multicolored things and she'll
make a wristband she'll do it just twist
a few together and things like this bag
but then she'll be like daddy I made you
a bracelet and she'll want me to put it
on right there and quite frankly I love
it I love those kind of gifts where she
makes something for me my secondary love
language is gifts as well so for her to
show love by giving gifts works for me
because it means I can receive gifts and
those things are super important and
when you are a person that feels loved
via gifts it doesn't matter what it is
if the intent and the spirit behind it
is that it's about you and that it's
personal to you that thing is like a
million dollars just recently for
Father's Day my daughter made this
little keychain I don't even know how
they did it in school but it's like a
big piece of paper they draw a picture
on it with these markers and then they
bake it in an oven and the piece of
paper just kind of shrinks down really
small into this hard plastic picture so
you get a miniature version of what you
drew and my daughter made that as a
keychain for me and I couldn't wait to
put it on my keyword
absolutely loved it it was of all the
things I received on Father's Day that
one meant the most to me and if you have
a child who feels loved through gifts
you want to look for creative ways that
speaks to them by giving them gifts
maybe it's maybe it's a craft maybe it's
you know if they like gardening buying
them a flower that they can put in the
garden it's a gift that continues to
grow the sky is the limit really when it
comes to gifts and I think of all the
ways that somebody can feel love that
one is probably the most diverse to be
able to exhibit because there's always a
way to give a gift and it doesn't have
to be with money it could be other
things and Gary goes through a lot of
examples in his book that I would
encourage you to get the book and read
it and the last love language is acts of
service
my wife is an acts of service person and
as a dad I like being able to teach my
kids about the five love languages
because it helps them understand how to
show in love to people and so often you
know our kids will say to us Oh mommy
daddy we love you but when it comes to
my wife I'm like okay guys clear let's
let's to kind of do this family huddle
you know we've talked about the love
languages you know that mommy's love
language is acts of service know like
yeah yeah yeah mm-hmm like what does
that mean that means we do things for
her
right so if mommy says I would like for
you to clean out the dish dishwasher I
said that's great if you listen but if
you did that and she didn't have to ask
that would be an act of service that
would make mommy feel so special and the
kids get behind that notion they get
behind that concept of like yeah usually
they'll forget by middle of the day and
so we have those reminders but they're
kids that's gonna happen but if you have
a child that's an acts of service kid so
often kids just look for
help and there are things that quite
often they can do but being able to do
it for them can show them love and in
Gary's book he gives us an example about
this family that's you know very farming
oriented and the father wants to instill
qualities and their kids about being
independent and strong and and all that
and and so the kids constantly in their
teen years would run into situations in
the farm you know the tractor gets stuck
whatever and then like hey Dad come on
come help and he's like nope you need to
figure this one out you're smart you're
capable you could do it and dad's trying
to teach them to be responsible and to
problem-solve but one of his kids in
this example the Gary talks about in the
book is an acts of service kit and he
says to his dad you know I would love I
would really like it if you would help
me out I know I can do it and I know
that you're trying to teach me to be
more responsible and to be you know more
independent but I would like your help
and that as a child if they are an acts
of service kid that will speak volumes
for you to drop what you're doing and do
that thing for them maybe an act of
service is if your kid likes to play
sports practice with them maybe it's
hockey and your kid loves to play hockey
they want to you know be a centerman for
their favorite team they can shoot all
they want at a net but what if you were
the one to be in net for them so you
could be a goalie let them practice on
you you know where you're padding you
don't want to get hurt you know but you
could spend time with them in a way that
is helping them get better at their
skills that is an act of service maybe
it's coming alongside your child while
they're doing the chores and doing it
with them you may not have the time you
may not have the energy but to show them
that you are willing to put them first
and do that thing with them is going to
speak volumes to them
our eleven-year-old he is not so much an
active service kid but I know one of the
ways that acts of service fits in with
how he feels love is with cooking he
loves to cook but there are times where
I'll just say to hey why don't I make
your eggs for you he's like okay and he
sits there at the table waiting for
these eggs to be done and then I put the
plate in front of him and he thinks
they're the best eggs over I didn't do
anything different but it's the fact
that I showed him love by doing that
thing that he's capable of but because I
did it for him now our oldest is a words
of affirmation so him and I get along
very well that way because we're always
building each other up but if you've got
a child or grandchild are you thinking
about having kids you want to pay
attention to what their love languages
are and Gary talks about in his book
kind of figuring out how to assess what
your child's love languages and he talks
about different stages in life and how
you can figure it out if your kid is
younger they will show what their love
languages as their primary expression of
showing love and so it's pretty easy to
figure out what it is that they need to
have their tank filled up that love tank
filled up but there's other ways that
you can assess their love try different
things every couple of days over a
lengthy period couple of weeks whatever
and see what works what doesn't one of
the things that Gary T keeps talking
about in his book is that when your
child's love tank is full you will see a
change in who they are and maybe their
attitude will improve or they'll become
more affectionate towards you or
somebody else in the family they might
have better grades in school
things might interim prove with their
interactions and social structure
there's ways to watch your kids and
observe on a scientific way but because
sit back and go is this working and be
able to tell how your child feels love
so there's so much more to this book
there's so many other ways of looking at
the five love one languages and in
Gary's book gives you wonderful examples
and dives into these topics so much more
deeply
and then he goes to another element of
it and how do your kids not feel loved
and how do you how do you avoid crushing
them because if their love language is
words of affirmation to say hey you did
a great job it's going to lift them up
but to say wow you really drop the ball
on that one is going to crush them and a
lot of times when you have kids that act
out it's because they're not feeling the
love that they should so I want to
encourage you pick up the book the five
love languages for children from Gary
Chapman it is a life altering book it
has been for me it's even in the last
couple of weeks it's changed the way
that I interact with my children it's
changed the way that they interact with
their mom and when they interact with me
and I've also been applying the
principles to my interactions with my
wife and all around our family has
started to see a change not that
anything was wrong before but we can
always do better and now all of us are
showing love in ways that are
intentional towards somebody else and
those other members of our family are
feeling the love so what encourage you
pick up the book sit down read it maybe
share it with your spouse have them read
it and if you've got an older child that
is maybe helping out of the family share
with them as well so that they can
interact properly with their younger
siblings I've been sharing the concepts
of this book with our oldest and he
loves it because he's looking at new
ways now of interacting with his younger
brother and sister it's a great book
pick it up you can find it anywhere in a
Christian bookstore online we'll even
have a link for it on our website it's
it's an excellent book you really need
to get it it's gonna change your life
all right well that's all the time we've
got for today looking forward to having
pass to Lawrence back with us next week
lots of good things in store as we go
through the summer hope you have a great
week Thanks catch a new episode of new
everyday every Friday more
at new everyday TV we're also on roku
cody flex youtube google play music
podcasts and news book or if you're in
Southern California tune in every Sunday
morning at 6:30 on kbdb TV channel 33
television for the high desert
