this is category 5 technology TV now
last week Jeff you and I were talking
about a app that was pulled from the
iTunes Store as part of the news that
was it was a security app that seemed to
say that that basically Apple didn't
want something in the app store that was
telling users that it was that they had
exploits on their phones yeah that's
right it had gone through I think the
first three levels of approval and then
up by the fourth stage apple pulled it
and so it was kind of a big hubbub can
you believe shortly after we ran that
story the popular runkeeper fitness app
was revealed to have exploits that were
basically leaking confidential user data
to third parties this raises some very
real concerns with regards to privacy
security the apps that are in your app
store and the app acceptance process but
more than that it shows us that we're
apt to trust apps that just happen to be
in the App Store you install them
thinking that they're trustworthy well I
mean they're so easy I mean you pull up
the App Store you pull up you know
whatever software you're using for your
phone your tablet and there's millions
of apps it's like oh I'm going to try
this one hot alike i'm going to try this
and we just use them not really thinking
about what's going on in the back end
and not necessarily oh okay so i mean
that that story with the runkeeper kind
of makes you think we're going to learn
more about that tonight proof point is
an international leader in advanced
cyber security solutions and to help
shed light on the problem please help me
welcome the vice president of mobile
security approved point Dave Jevons Dave
it's so nice to have you here hey guys
it's great to be with you tonight thanks
for joining us and before we really get
into our interview in our discussion
here tonight could you just give us a
little bit of a brief rundown a resume
so to speak for the viewers who who may
or may not know about proof point tell
us a little bit about your background
when it comes to device and data
security if you could sure well I've
I've been at proof point a little while
now as head of mobile security I came to
the company through an acquisition they
actually bought my mobile security
company which was a great thing to join
the proof point team
get exposure globally for what we're
doing in mobile security but my
background really started back in the
University of Calgary where I got my
master's degree and I was on a ski lift
one day yeah at sunshine village and the
guy sitting next to me said hey I was
like a job at apple I worked there in
the research department well I thought
about it for about two seconds said yeah
so I started my career in computer
science here in California where I live
now at Apple computer and then I've done
a bunch of different startups and been
in security since 95 and built security
products for internet security that
pretty much every bank in in North
America and Europe uses and actually on
device security I had a company called
iron key which made hardware encrypted
flash drives and secure web browsing
stuff that was very very successful and
now I've been in the mobile security
business for about four or five years
very good talk about being at the right
place at the right timing yeah how many
people can say that okay RunKeeper is
big in the news this week because this
is a popular fitness app that tracks
geolocation information where have I
been jogging where have I been and
there's a lot of private information
stored in that app so to find out that
this RunKeeper app is actually kind of
bleeding out this this private
information to a third party is is
rather shocking and really stands to
tell us that you know maybe we shouldn't
be quite so trust worthy of all the apps
that are in the app store can you share
with us a little bit Dave about your
knowledge about the runkeeper app and
what has happened over the past week
yeah so runkeeper is a you know fitness
app that tracks your activity where
you're going and actually they've got a
history of security problems they've got
security problems that have been
documented as far back as 2013 where
they had things that could actually
allow people to access your accounts
without your password and could have
allowed internet ones to be spread
through their fitness system this latest
problem that's come to light is they
were using a an advertising library
I called keep and they had according to
them had a bug in their software and it
was actually tracking you and leaking
your data not only while you thought the
app was running but also in the
background so make it send it messages
and things and it would absolutely send
information unbeknownst to you what kind
of what kind of data beyond geolocation
so it took to clarify what that means
this is an app that tracks where I go
and so if that's the case and somebody
has record now of all of these geo
coordinates of where I've been that you
can establish a fair bit about a person
but beyond that what what kind of
information has been leaked because of
this bug well so it's not just a bug
it's the whole ad library system but
it's tracking things about email habits
it's tracking browser histories and
cookies so especially on the Android
platform it's actually able to look at
everywhere you've been web surfing which
could include cookies and other things
so it knows pretty much everything about
you Wow so with this information that's
been accessed is there a requirement for
the third party to delete the
information that they've obtained
legally there's not so I took a look at
their privacy policies and the very fact
that you use their services which of
course you don't know because you're
using RunKeeper you don't know your
rising service the very fact that you
use this service means you have granted
them permission to take your data and
and they actually have permission to
sell it now it but I mean if you'd if
you say you use the run keep wrap but
they're using advertising with this
other service you haven't expressly
signed on to the advertising service yes
it's like you've accepted their policies
by proxy is that the night here yeah
this is a thing that we all need to
start thinking about especially in the
app world which is the very fact that
you use a nap you're agreeing to their
privacy policy but you may also be
agreeing tacit ly to the privacy
policies of many other ad networks or
software that they've compiled into
their product that
you don't know anything about and you
actually don't really have any
visibility to that privacy policy yeah
that's so absolutely no legal
requirement to delete that data none Wow
none and in fact they can change their
privacy policy whenever they want and
the privacy policy that they have online
at the time is their current privacy
policy and you agreed to it by very just
visiting their website we're using a app
that is sending data to them so we're
looking talking kind of predominantly
about this RunKeeper app this is a
problem that's bigger than just
runkeeper we're just this is a good
example because its current and it's
something that is in heavy use and and
it's in the news right now that this has
been exploited runkeeper themselves I
have to think that they must have known
that this information was being leaked
to keep the third party why did it take
a complaint from the no region at
consumer council in order to actually
bring this to light to the consumers
there well there's no requirement for
these folks to tell you that information
for one it's not in their best interest
to tell you too because they're making
money off of selling your information um
so and is that is that speculative or is
this an actual fact yeah its back cow
now when you actually look at privacy
policies this is another big issue take
a look at your apps on your phone and
actually see how many have privacy
policies you don't have to have a
privacy policy to get an appt published
on any of the major app stores really
know so if you look at the top 10 apps
on the App Store's most of those will
have a privacy policy get many days you
can go look and some of them won't but
if you look broadly across all apps
across app stores and I've looked at 11
million apps in my work at proof point
across both Android and iOS app stores
about half of the apps don't have
privacy policies and some of them are
fraudulent they actually just point into
like the Facebook privacy policy or
Dougal or stuff like that yeah so
speaking of you know Android versus iOS
are there any particular platforms
including say blackberry or Windows
Mobile are any of the platforms safer
than the other um one could argue that
the old blackberry platform is the most
secure of the ones you mentioned it does
have them to end encryption but of
course it's the least usable they don't
really have apps it's true folks it's
true I tried to install skype on here so
that I could talk to you tonight Dave
and it just doesn't have it yeah so I'd
say that I don't I don't actually think
either if you if we just look at Android
and and the iOS operating system that
runs on your iPhone or your iPad I'm not
going to say that technically either one
is actually more secure than the other
that's a thing camas conception that
people think oh the iphones are by iOS
is more secure than Android I'm I don't
believe that to be true but there are
some really important differences so the
on the iphone it's a lot harder to
download apps from just anywhere you
want it can be done that's another
misconception that you can't just
download apps from anywhere you want you
actually can and there were people
running rogue app stores all the time
that people go and download they know
they can get every game for free they
can get videos and things like that
that's why people do it but on Android
that's really easy to do you just turn a
little switch off and then you can
download and it you know amazon runs an
app store Samsung runs an app store oh i
know runs an app store so the security
controls on those app stores are much
more lenient than stay on google play
the other thing that we have the problem
with it with android is that the older
versions don't update and the updates
were required to be pushed by your phone
company and the phone companies are
pretty bad at that so if you're running
android like 4.4 or older which is half
the world you will get no security
updates so in those cases yeah that's
much
less secure than buying a new iphone
with iOS 9 on it okay so if you're a
consumer what should be your biggest
fear or concern when it comes to these
kind of apps because people will just
download not really paying attention and
not understanding all this other
information that nobody tells you so
what should be that biggest concern so I
think you know it one make sure your
operating systems up to date so when
they offer you the new version of the
operating system you should take it if
you look at all you know how we've been
getting I know if you guys are iphone
users but for those of us who are you
know there's been a number of updates
over the last couple of months those are
not updates to add tons of features
shows are updates for to fix security
buds gotcha and these are security bugs
that aren't necessarily out in the open
and and revealed to the end consumer
we're speaking with Dave Jevons he's the
vp of mobile security at proof point and
you can find out more about them a proof
point dot-com Dave how many militias
apps are we talking about in in either
of the main app stores uh it depends I
mean there can be thousands at any one
time so generally the Google App Store
that Google Play has has you know maybe
a few thousand the apple app store is
much more clean but you know you'll have
instances for example a few months ago
we got something called Xcode ghost it
actually infected the app developers and
then they yeah right and they published
apps not knowing that they had now we're
in their apps we found over 4000 of
those apps at long live um well yeah I I
was reading a statistic even just
something as benign as like a Bible app
and realizing there are five thousand
different Bible apps and over 200 of
them contain malware that's crazy so
it's you feel like your prey in a way
not not
that pun was not intentional but it was
awesome good one when yet you know when
you look at some of these rogue app
stores to wear for example you got done
a lot of work and researching these
things and like front on the iphone for
example they'll have tens of thousands
of apps for free so every game you would
have to pay for like Grand Theft Auto or
if you want to buy business apps that's
us all available for free well when we
looked at all those apps every single
one of them have been modified they're
not the original version they've all
been tampered with in some way these are
in the third party app stores somebody
has Tampa these yeah so does this only
effect does that particular issue so
having a third party app store on your
device does that only affect users who
have rooted their devices no so the bad
guys have found out ways on on iOS to
get apps on your phone without
jailbreaking it and then on android of
course is you know you can just say i
want to use third parties you know
places to download apps and you can get
apps from any app store you want you can
have apps just you can get them just
clicking on web pages hmm you can do
that on iOS too if you get it right they
get an enterprise certificate and you
get trust then you can access at any
third-party app store and and you can
download apps outside of Elvis control I
think the risk there and phishing scams
are huge big deal these days and
trickery and social engineering and so
it's so easy I think for somebody to
develop something this rogue and trick
you into wanting it because hey if I can
what there's an app that will let me
watch all of my favorite TV shows for
free that's where I think we run the
risk hey yeah i'm going to say yes to
that question right yeah when we looked
at our customers who are mostly
businesses we found forty percent of
them had employees accessing those rogue
app stores wow they're open so half the
companies have people doing it that's
crazy and so one of the other features
that when it comes to apps is there's
websites that will allow you to make an
appt you know like I think of app maker
calm and stuff like that
no not assume that specific site but do
those sites generally embed software
that could be malicious or do they try
and run lean or you know for somebody
who doesn't have a programming
background score no like make an app for
free for my you know my school classroom
is that a dangerous way to go I wouldn't
say it's dangerous but I think you need
to be careful so make sure that the tool
that you're using or the or the service
that you're using is reputable nothing
comes for free mmm nothing good anyway
lots of malware comes for free and then
also be aware about what's actually
going into your app so or you know what
are they doing what is their privacy
policy what are they tracking from your
users what date are they asking from
your users where's that data going
because a lot of these things are
embedding libraries in there that are
you know taking user information and if
users don't read the privacy policy oh
whoa hmm yeah too bad so sad you said
yes to the wrong question we're speaking
with Dave Jevons he's the vp of mobile
security at proof point Dave can you
share with us we're talking a lot about
privacy policies here what other things
do we as consumers or as companies need
to be concerned with beyond just simple
privacy so certainly malware is one
thing looking at malicious apps where
they're coming from I mean that they
exist they're out there as we mentioned
you know Xcode ghost at 4,000 of them on
iPhones in one day and that so that
stuffs out there you have to realize
that you have to understand what data
you've got on your phone the next one is
passwords so right what are those apps
doing with your password lots of apps
are sending your passwords around
there's a there's a guy on the App Store
who keeps writing these Instagram helper
apps and they keep getting approved and
he steals your username and password
logs into your Instagram account from
his servers and starts putting ads in
your Instagram so that all your friends
and everybody else is seeing ads that
he's posing that's an example now when
you log into your you know if an app
pops up log into the game center how do
you know that it's the real game center
they're not just stealing your
password so this gets down to password
you know smart password usage which is
obviously don't use the same password on
your email as on your iTunes account or
your play account and certainly not as
your bank account but in modern times
the most important password to keep
secure is actually your email account
yeah I'd have to agree because I mean we
all use our email account for our online
banking for example so what happens when
a user gets in there and says forgot
password and is able to recover their
password by compromising your email
account but it also brings to mind we've
really seen come to light again this
week a lot of stuff in the news and it
seems to be the case more and more
teamviewer had an issue where all of a
sudden it was in the news that
teamviewer had been hacked and all these
users are reporting that people are
remotely accessing their computers while
they sleep and going into their online
banking and transferring funds away and
and this kind of stuff happening with
TeamViewer and it turns out that the
news is debunked by the fact that no
these users in fact we're using the same
teamviewer password on other services
that had been compromised and those
passwords allowed those malicious users
into their computers through teamviewer
and they were able to compromise their
computers so again it boils down to
being smart about your password usage
does it really day Dave does it come
down to education is there more than
just education to this protecting
ourselves or sure I mean education is
important one of the things that I also
do in addition to proof point is i run
the anti-phishing working group the AP
WG and you know we run e-crime
conferences every year there's one in
Toronto next week and so education is
something that we see as important and
everybody listening to the show needs to
think about what their passwords are
they need to be different I mean it's
safer to write your passwords down on a
piece of paper and keep them in your
desk at home then use the same password
everywhere so that's a that's a thing
you got to think about phishing attacks
we're seeing a lot of them on mobile
now where they're coming through SMS and
they're saying hey for example your
Apple iTunes account is about to expire
click here and it takes you to a spoof
website the rest will be similar that's
a big one going on right now same thing
on google play those are very heavily
fished and if they can get that
information well did you back all your
stuff up to iCloud they might be able to
recover it now so then you can have all
your data taken no at that password to
write could be your email password and
now you're really owns right so I mean
we were just talking about you know a
nap on a PC one of the questions we have
from our chat room is Windows 10 has an
app store that has all the same apps as
your mobile device would so does this
mean that those apps are now
compromising your PC as well as your
mobile device because it has it crossed
over yeah or is it a different type of
back-end now well it's a different
back-end on the windows and although
they're trying to bring them together at
Microsoft to have sort of a common
infrastructure and you know their mobile
strategies evolving quite a bit so we
haven't seen how that's finally going to
shake out about their android support
and their iOS support that strategy has
been changing over the last probably
eight months or so but there have
definitely been apps that run on your pc
or your Mac that if you plug your phone
into your PC or Mac will infect your
mobile device that is the easiest way to
get infected okay hmm yeah there's a
bunch of that going on no doubt this is
category 5 technology TV and we are
speaking tonight with Dave Devin's he's
the vp of mobile security at proof point
we've got to take a really quick break
when we come back we're going to talk
about what you can do to protect
yourself both in your company and and
personally as well stick around Jeff
westin Yemen you're building a brand-new
beautiful website
are you all right you're a terrible
actor what does we're acting comes into
play oh I don't know we're acting you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website it's true how much hard
drive space do you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cat five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the rules are your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
just don't put that on the papers are
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're gonna find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV / dreamhost this is
category 5 technology TV welcome to the
show I'm Robbie Ferguson an objet Boston
tonight we are speaking with Dave Jevons
and dave is the VP of mobile security at
proof point we're speaking about some of
the exploits that have found their way
into your favorite app stores and how we
can protect ourselves from those Dave
welcome to the show thanks for being
here it's great to be with you guys Dave
can you think of any standout malware
that has made its way into popular
popular app stores that you've had to
deal with with proof point that really
stands out as being very clever or
something that our viewers may even fall
for well I've seen some things recently
I'm thinking of a couple of them on the
Android platform that are they're fairly
benign when you run them but actually
once you get them out of the app store
environment and onto your device they're
very powerful and they look like the
most sophisticated malicious code we've
seen on the pc world so it's clear
the PC type of people coming into the
mobile world x pot for example looks
like a Adobe Flash plugin and what it
really is is it's a fishing app so it
will detect up to basically 40 different
banking apps and as well as Google Play
and Facebook that are running on your
phone and when you fire those apps up it
is running in the background and it pops
up a login screen in front of it and
then steals your credentials um that one
is actually can actually also function
as a ransomware app so it there is a
command and control that the bad guys
can send to it that will lock out your
phone and and then demand that you get a
debit card and type in the prepaid debit
card number to unlock your phone is
scary stuff so seeing ransomware
actually finding its way on to your
mobile devices why are the App Store
developers thinking of Google themselves
an apple why are they not doing more to
to protect users against these kinds of
malicious apps from finding their way
into the app stores well I do you think
they are constantly getting better it is
a game that is impossible to 100% salt I
do think they are getting better I think
the folks at Google for example have
been doing a lot of work in the last
couple of years to make sure that people
with modern versions of Android get
over-the-air updates there was a bug
recently in Android that had been around
for several years was recently
discovered which can allow complete
takeover of your device and google push
an emergency pass for that now if you're
running an old version of android you're
not going to get that so you know get a
new phone um yeah that's what it boils
down to get a new phone and if you look
on the Apple side I mean they are
patching you know I've been tracking it
for maybe a year or two and every
release that comes out every point
release that comes out is fixing
somewhere between 30 to 50 serious
security vulnerabilities that are being
discovered every month so they're on top
of it they're trying to fix those things
but apps can put zero-day exploits in
and
we call them zero days because we've
never seen them before there's no time
there's no time bad guys figured it out
and so it's impossible to have a hundred
percent security so in this in our
modern way of using devices how has this
gotten so out of hand why are there not
things in place to really put this to a
stop uh well because programmers are
human and make tons of mistakes and QA
is imperfect so I mean there will be
bugs forever the other thing is that the
OSS are getting more and more
sophisticated right so when you got iOS
8 and then iOS 9 they're amazing pieces
of technology I mean they're incredible
the features that are in there are
amazing but when they add 4,000 new API
calls in one major release of an
operating system you're going to have
bugs and bad guys exploit it the other
thing that we're finding is that it is
possible to update your apps without
going through App Store review there are
several ways to do it on both platforms
which means you could have an app that
behaves perfectly fine when it goes
through an app store review does nothing
bad and then three months after it's
been released the bad guys can then
update it and make it do that stuff so
we're talking about app developers who
place seemingly benign code it could be
a game it could be a seemingly useful
app and then push out an update that
will make it malicious is there an
approval process to that being pushed
out ah so there's two to three waste
update if you go through the App Store
and you do an app store update it goes
through a much lighter weight review
process than when you first submit your
app all right when you first submit your
app it can take a couple of weeks now I
know from experience of the two weeks
amount of time that your app is in
review it's waiting for 1.99 nine weeks
in a queue it really only did they only
analyze it for about 11 minutes before
it actually gets approved but when you
do an update it gets goes through a
lighter weight update but what the bad
guys have found out and it's not just
bad guys it's also legitimate software
developers there are ways to update your
code
that does not involve the App Store you
can push code updates down to two apps
outside of the App Store and bad guys do
it too limited set you can't do
everything but if the api's were
compiled into your app you can change
the way they're being used throughout or
how to act out a band updates I'd
imagine that you could in fact place
bugs if you will into your own software
in order to exploit it later so
absolutely so if somebody is an app
developer what should they be doing to
safeguard themselves from running into
the same issue that RunKeeper ran into
okay you very good question you need to
be really really really careful about
what you're compiling into your app we
find thirty to forty percent of apps at
least are compiling third-party code
into them that they have no idea what it
really does they're not reading
necessarily the privacy policies or
checking on who the developers are that
are providing that code some people will
write a game and they'll include
multiple ad libraries in it well you
might be getting an ad library from some
guy in China that's been infected with
like I backdoor for example you just
compile that into your app and you just
distributed it to your customers or
users and you didn't know so being very
careful about the third party libraries
you put into your app is really critical
and it needs to go through the security
review that every app should go through
before developers release it on to the
App Store such a hard thing for
developers because it's always about we
need to push and push and bring out new
versions and we've got to be competitive
and we've got to make money if we're
distributing an app for free we've got
to generate we have to have revenue
streams so if an advertiser comes along
and says look we just pop this little
bit of code in there and we will
generate revenue for you it's very
appealing for a developer to push that
out we're thinking a lot about the
develop more the developer here and you
know somebody who's creating apps and
distributing them and I think there does
have to be an accountability there and a
review process of one's own software but
what can we do as consumers so the
people who are installing these apps and
we don't know if they are safe or if
they have this more
code that's been injected into them what
can we do to protect ourselves so a few
guidelines nothing's perfect but a few
guidelines download from legitimate app
stores as tempting as it is to go to
some other app store where you can get a
game for free or download all kinds of
paid videos for free or maybe you want
to access adult content apps just don't
do it that's one when you're downloading
apps take a look at the reputation the
number of downloads and really if it's
going to be something that you're going
to be using to I don't know login to
your Twitter account or something like
that through that app go read their
privacy policy also read you know when
you fire it up really pay attention to
what it's asking permissions for because
apps will tend to ask for permissions
and people just say ok and you really
gotta look because if you get ok I mean
and it's reading your calendar and your
address book and you know maybe on
Android your SMS messages or your email
or your browser history I mean once you
hit OK that data's many cases just going
to be sent off your device yeah my wife
is is really smart to read through these
things and and sometimes we just kind of
skip over and say I accept because the
kids will be wanting to install an a
game on on her phone and and so she'll
go through the process because it
requires a password just say why does
this race car game need access to my
photos my camera my microphone and all
these other things and it just goes to
show that maybe they've got something in
there that is malicious or possibly
going to be used for malicious purpose
at a future time and it's tough to
because as a blackberry user for example
as we've talked about a little bit
earlier in the interview there really
aren't a lot of apps left on the App
Store and it's it seems to be like a
dying platform Facebook has severed ties
with blackberry and so if I want to
access facebook on my device as it's a
blackberry I have to either go through
their website which is a horrible
experience on on here or I can install
one of these third-party apps that are
developed by somebody who I don't know
who they are how do I know and this is a
rhetorical question but how do I know as
a user that that's not
going to be revealing my personal
information my login ID for facebook and
and possibly information about all my
friends to the app developer as well
well as you said it's a rhetorical
question right because the answer is you
don't mm-hmm and you should check out
the origin of the apps to write so I
mean some of these app developers go to
great pains to make it hard to figure
out who they really are they've got you
know they're the only way to contact
them is a facebook page or maybe a gmail
link it may not have a website and you
be surprised where some of these apps
are developed let me give you an example
there's a very popular business card
scanner app you know you take a picture
of the business card and it stands it
right and loads it yeah loads it into
your address book you know where that
apps made do tell that's in Shanghai and
then when you actually take a look at it
there's no privacy policy associated
whether you have to have to go and find
the company find where they're located
go to their website read their privacy
policy what that thing's doing is it's
reading your address book and your
calendar and sending it to servers
across China and by using that app you
have given them permission to take all
that data and do whatever they want they
can make it public if they want Wow sell
it if they want and furthermore the one
who's bad is you and not them because
part of that privacy policy says you got
permission of everyone in your address
book that you could send their data to
them oh man so if ever comes to a
lawsuit of course you'd have to do it in
the People's Republic of China you one
who's at fault not them so two points
with that of course the thought about it
being based in China here in Canada if
an app is developed here we're governed
by the Canadian privacy laws which are
very strict and if we deviate from those
then there are some very serious
penalties so it's not necessarily
something you know oh I saw something in
China so it's not trustworthy not
necessarily the case but they're not
governed by the same privacy laws and
second point would be that but it's it's
so clever it's so smart that we've
brought out an app that is built to
communicate with your contact list it
scans photos of business cards in order
to put them in your contact list so
what's the first thing that you're going
to do I see that it needs access to my
contact list that's right approve yeah
yeah I've now tricked me into that well
you know I've got a I've built apps just
as demos that you know can get on the
App Store's no problem cayenne you know
you say hey I want to share with my
friend you know our little test app just
takes all your contact database off your
phone now you have no idea that's
happened yeah and and you know if you
say things like for example I'd like to
save this to Dropbox I'd like to have
access to dropbox when you do that
you've given that app permission to your
entire Dropbox which means they can take
all your files if they want oh my but
the smart ones are not going to the
smart ones aren't going to delete stuff
they're going to do everything in the
background in such a way that you don't
see it happening so that you continue to
run this application and continue to
feed them valuable information because
data is money these days the smart ones
just look for files that say like
password or customer or stuff like that
and just copy those files all right so
when it comes to these apps they you
know people i'm sure they're watching
this and look at their phone going oh my
goodness all my passwords are in an
email yeah like I'm going to delete this
app by uninstalling these apps and
looking for more reputable one does that
safeguard you or are these apps leaving
the back door in the phone or device so
that you're still compromised so the
majority of apps do not leave a like a
backdoor restart thing it's a it's it's
very difficult to do on the iPhone
platform so unless it's jailbroken your
device or has taken advantage of one of
these zero days which you know there's
30 or so discovered every month but
unless it's done that and most of them
don't because the bad guys aren't that
smart only the really bad bad guys are
if you delete it you're usually okay on
Android I would say most of the time
you're out
not always because again it depends what
permissions you grant it to that app
right so like we found an app recently
that was a actually from a stock trading
company and they paid somebody to take
their pc based app and convert it to run
on Android and the people who did it
used a toolkit that lets non native code
run on Android well when you agree to
run it you install that toolkit which by
the way does not come off Google Play
it's installed off their website on your
phone that's really dangerous that thing
is if that thing doesn't get deleted and
it's available to all other apps and you
can download new code into it so in that
case I mean if you find something that
truly is malicious like that you may
want to wipe your phone and update to
the latest OS and then reinstall the
apps that you want very rare but when
you find you've got something that's
malicious like that you probably want to
do that on Android and just the fact it
does exist it's out there yeah it was
beat we found this app being pushed by a
brokerage firm to their employees and
and most likely unbeknownst to them it's
it so they didn't know they're like wait
what why are you guys approve points
flagging it as an hour and we're looking
at it going because it's using this
distribution toolkit that you're sloppy
program are used I didn't know either
but that thing's been used to distribute
a whole bunch of Trojans an hour hike so
what what approach does the big company
have to take that's the differs from
what we as consumers would have to take
what what can a company do to protect
their users and I think about bring your
own devices and people bringing their
phones from home how do you protect
against this kind of stuff so that's
where companies like we come in with
proof point is we're plugging into
mobile device management systems which
any smart company needs to deploy any
company letting people use mobile
devices to get on to their networks to
access their apps and internal corporate
apps or even to get email calendar need
some form of mobile device management
system and those are available for
Android iPhones and for blackberry and
coming out for windows phones too and
you need to have that and then you need
to tie in like an advanced threat
detection product like well we're
offering a proof point which lets you
see what apps are really doing where
they're sending data are they malicious
and being able to have sort of that
automated control that works back with
the company so that even if it's BYOD
and I bring my own tablet to work you
know my kid loaded something malicious
on it unbeknownst to me on the weekend
it'll detect that and it'll tell me how
to get rid of it or get rid of it for me
so companies have really got to start
doing that and they are very good so
does the proof point product does it
provide some kind of an infrastructure
for the IT admins to be able to oversee
all of their mobile devices within the
network yeah we do so you can basically
go in there oversee the devices and we
pay a lot of attention to privacy so you
can set it up so I t can see what's
happening with devices and what's on
them or they can set it up to have great
degree of user privacy so that they
don't know what's on your phone they
just know whether it's safe or not so
you're protecting the users without
actually violating your users privacy
when I'm gonna bring your own device
environment that's that's smart because
otherwise I may not want to use my home
tablet right and it saves it saves
resources for the company as well you
can follow proof point it's at proof
point on Twitter or visit their website
Proofpoint calm tonight we've been
speaking with Dave Jevons the the vice
president of mobile security at proof
point Dave it's been a pleasure having
you here and great talking with you guys
now Dave one question before we do let
you go its last one that's popping up on
the website is there a reputable list of
some of the worst apps to avoid that
people may not think of so that you can
go on a website be like oh these are the
apps i should not be going to use not
that i know if it's a good idea i'll
take a look at creating one Pressey
we're gonna see it soon coming soon from
proof Dave thank you so much for being
here and I know it was short notice to
come onto the show after last week's
revelation and some of the things that
we've seen happening this week it's a
pleasure to have you here thank you and
all the best with your endeavors to keep
companies and users safe thanks a lot
guys take care this is category 5
technology TV welcome to the show my
name is Robby Ferguson and I'm Jeff
Weston that
Jeff sorry slowly well folks you can
find our website triple w category five
dot TV and as we were saying tonight
check out Proofpoint com just like it
sounds nice and easy or follow them
proof point on Twitter great resource I
find their twitter feed because they do
post a lot of great articles that have
to do with keeping yourself safe in the
mobile marketplace and and you can learn
a lot about about security and
everything from a consumer perspective
but also their products of course are
going to protect you on the on the
corporate level so check them out at
proof point on twitter that was a great
interview so much information oh it's
such a pleasure to have Dave here loved
it and thank you very much everybody in
the chat room who pose some questions
lots of good stuff coming out of there I
know there's some questions we didn't
get to so I apologize for that just kind
of ran out of time hey you know what if
you had a question for Dave and you want
to get it into him email us live at
category five dot TV will make sure to
forward that along
