it's tuesday january the 16 2016 I'm
Robbie Ferguson here are the top stories
of recovery on the category 5 TV usually
this week a TNT has chosen Canonical's
ubuntu operating system to power its
systems and a new partnership between
the two companies raises some
interesting possibilities for the future
of the linux OS who is responsible if
your company is compromised by credit
card thieves and then after the malware
is removed their compromised yet again
we'll take a look at how one Vegas
casino is suing the company they hired
to perform forensics after they were
assured the attack was contained a
Twitter outage today comes at a pretty
bad time for the company as their shares
continue to fall hitting an all-time low
this morning Microsoft will no longer
allow users to update windows versions
less than Windows 10 on next-generation
hardware yeah you heard me right we're
not talking about old hardware we're
talking about if you buy new hardware
they are going to be cutting off support
stick around we'll tell you what's up
also netflix is is soon going to block
proxy access to its content these
stories are coming up in the category
five dot TV newsrooms stick around
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV / linda i'm bobby
ferguson here are the top stories that
were covering from the category five dot
TV news room this week ATT is moving
away from their proprietary systems and
stepping toward canonical limits
and source operating system kubuntu
canonical announced the news in a blog
post saying it's joining forces with
AT&amp;T to provided xubuntu OS and
engineering support for the carriers
cloud network and enterprise
applications now the company's disclosed
that the partnership is significant in
coming up with the Ubuntu based apps
across the internal and external systems
at AT&amp;T John's anos Canonical's vice
president of cloud alliances and
business development believes that the
collaboration with AT&amp;T quote provides
the opportunity to innovate with AT&amp;T
around the next generation of the
software centric network and cloud
solutions Zeno's also said that teaming
up with one of the leading carriers in
the United States would enable the
company to bring its expertise on a boon
to cloud and open source to AT&amp;T
meanwhile the wall street journal
reports that Canonical's new
relationship with AT&amp;T could in fact
allow it to pursue its plan to build the
Ubuntu powered smartphone that could
come packed with desktop grade apps the
phone could also be connected to
keyboards and large displays a las
vegas-based casino operator has sued
security firm Trustwave for conducting
an allegedly woefully inadequate
forensics investigation that missed key
details of a network breach and allowed
credit card thieves to maintain their
foothold during the course of the two
and a half month investigation in a
legal complaint filed in federal court
in Las Vegas affinity gaming said it
hired Trustwave in October 2013 to
investigate and contain a network breach
that allowed attackers to obtain
customers credit card data in
mid-january 2014 Trustwave submitted a
report required under payment card
industry security rules on all merchants
who accept credit cards in the PCI
forensics report Trustwave said it had
identified the source of the data breach
and had contained the malware
responsible for it whoops more than a
year later after affinity was hit by a
second credit card breach the casino
operator allegedly learned from
Trustwave competitor mandiant that the
we're had never been fully removed
Trustwave had said that the last breach
activity occurred in October 2013
Mandiant's later PCI forensics report by
contrast said that it happened again in
December of that year while Trustwave
was in fact investigating the report
also noted that the breach occurred on a
continuous basis both before and after
Trustwave claimed that the data breach
had been contained trustwave allegedly
failed to detect several pieces of
malware infecting network servers or
that the breach was ultimately the
result of people who were able to access
affinities virtual private network and
install backdoor software here's a quote
Mandiant's report also concluded that
the various recommendations Trustwave
had presented to improve affinity
gaming's data security were pointless
the complaint alleged and the quote
continues none addressed the source of
the data breach and none would have
prevented the attacker from again
accessing affinity gaming's data systems
for instance through the back doors the
trustwave failed to find and close
frightening stuff a little bit of
insight into some of the the forensics
and the trouble that goes on behind the
scenes when you hear about these data
breaches and credit cards being stolen
and things like that you don't really
realize well companies are putting it
all on the line to say yeah we fixed it
and then to find out that actually they
still have ways in might be a little
devastating I think for any company some
Twitter users had to do without early
today after sporadic outages knocked out
the social media site in the US and
Europe as well as Canada incidentally I
know I had trouble this morning reports
of malfunctions began to appear in the
US but it was unclear how widespread the
outages were this morning by mid-morning
on the East Coast desktop and mobile
versions of Twitter appeared to be
working although the company wouldn't
say if they were back to normal a
company smoke spokeswoman also wouldn't
reveal any details as to the possible
cause of the outage declining to comment
beyond
twitter's tweeted statement Twitter Inc
which has 320 million active users
tweeted that it is aware of the issue
and is trying to fix it Twitter's mobile
app was partially functioning for some
users but its timeline update and new
tweets were sporadic third-party
services such as tweetdeck HootSuite
those services were also encountering
errors the outages come at a very bad
time for Twitter and its executives as
they're trying to convince Wall Street
that they can deliver bigger revenue and
profits meanwhile the company's stock
continues to languish at an all-time low
twitter shares have lost 66 percent of
their values and speaking of 52 dollars
and eighty-seven cents in april in
morning trading today twitter shares
fell another 35 cents to just seventeen
dollars and 59 cents if you own a system
with an intel 6th generation processor
that's the skylake processor for example
and if you run Windows 7 or Windows 8.1
you're gonna have to think about
upgrading to Windows 10 hoor Linux
you've got 18 months to do so microsoft
announced on friday that after july
seventeenth 2017 my birthday happy
birthday from microsoft while they're
going to actually while they're saying
on that date only the most critical
security fixes will be released for
those platforms Windows 7 Windows 8.1
and those fixes will only be made
available if they don't risk the
reliability or compatibility of windows
seven or eight point one on other non
skylake systems the full range of
compatibility and security fixes will be
published for non sky like machines for
windows 7 until january fourteenth 2020
and for Windows 8.1 until January 10th
2023 as far as Microsoft's concerned
next-generation processors will only be
supported by windows 10 going forward
the company said that using the latest
generation processors will always
require the latest generation operating
system and so along that vein allow me
to introduce you to Linux
there's the bias subscribers of the
video streaming service provider Netflix
will no longer be able to use proxies to
watch content not available in their
home country subscribers often resort to
these proxies or servers that facilitate
access to Internet content not normally
available locally to watch Netflix is
popular shows the company said that it
would clamp down on these proxies or
unblock errs in a few weeks it's not all
bad news though Netflix is vice
president of content delivery
architecture wrote in a blog that their
goal is in fact to provide the content
in more countries rather than users
needing to utilize third-party proxies
the announcement comes just a week after
Netflix went live in more than 130
countries covering almost the entire
globe except China Netflix said that not
all of its shows would be available
immediately to subscribers in certain
countries but that it was working toward
resolving that however there's no word
yet about their intent to bring non
Netflix programming such as blockbuster
movies to other countries a Netflix
spokesman told Reuters ultimately this
is a quote the aim is to provide a
service around the world that is more
similar than not using VPNs or proxies
to virtually cross borders violates
Netflix's terms of use because of
licensing restrictions on TV shows and
movies comes down to copyrights doesn't
it India Nigeria Russia and Saudi Arabia
were among the 130 countries where the
service was launched last week big
thanks this week to roy roy w nash and
our community of viewers hey if you've
got a story you'd like to submit to the
category 5 TV news room if you want to
hear your name on the air please email
us newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room I'm Robbie
Ferguson
