thanks for tuning in the category 5
technology TV i'm your host Ravi
Ferguson and this show is designed to
give you a venue to ask your
technological questions and get answers
right here live on the air well you have
to do is give me a call at seven oh five
seven three nine ten 56 or you can visit
us online at triple WTV Ravi f com or
you can drop me an email and you can
also msn me at TV at Robby F calm for
today's show I'm going to be introducing
a new operating system well not a new
operating system but a new version of
perhaps the number one linux operating
system for the desktop which is Ubuntu
and today we're going to be looking at
the new gutsy gibbon which comes out and
I guess so nine days on october
eighteenth of 2007 neat thing about
gutsy gibbon is that they're going to be
introducing now when this is released
now I've got to advanced bed a copy here
but they're going to be integrating the
visual desktop effects that we've been
talking about over the past couple of
episodes directly into the operating
system as a default I've looked at it up
on a system here and we can kind of see
how it's just in a screensaver now but
we fade right into the desktop and it's
just absolutely beautiful what the
people at who bunt to have done with
their operating system and just tweaking
and making it everything kind of
integrated in and ready to go right out
of the box so what you're looking at
here is the gnome desktop of ubuntu
basically I've just put a wallpaper on
it and added my my cube and things like
that but the compiz fusion program which
is the 3d kind of special effects end of
the Ubuntu jepty given desktop is
included by default so if your graphic
hardware and your and your video
hardware everything
meets the minimum system requirements
for that it's going to automatically
activate that for you so it saves a lot
of the you know the guess work is to
installing things and getting the proper
plugins and things up and running with
the operating system because it's all
detected at boot time so it also helps
with the fact that if you know you ever
change a graphics card in your computer
it's going to be automatically detected
now and your drivers are going to be
very easy to install now and this is
something that ubuntu has been doing I
believe it's just since feisty it might
have been edgy as well but they've added
in here to do restrictive driver manager
so when i first installed the operating
system the first thing that I'm prompted
with is the fact that it's detected my
nvidia video video card and so all I've
had to do is just check off this check
box and say okay and that installed the
drivers for me directly off the internet
just like we've done in the past but
completely automated no having to think
about it really at all and then I just
set up my cube and some of the knee now
we're going to get into more of the
features of the compiz fusion system as
opposed to the barrel project and what
compiz fusion is is kind of the what's
the migration of or the ream I Gration
of contents and the barrel project way
way back when and a couple years ago
there was just compiz and then it was
forked out so they became two projects
there was barrel and there was comp is
now they've come back together so who
bunt to gutsy gibbon is the first
desktop operating system that i know of
it's actually integrating it by default
so this is you know this is a big deal
so this is something that you're going
to be able to have right out of the box
I'd love to take your questions if you'd
like to log on to msn you can msn me at
TV at Robbie f calm you can also email
me at that same address i'll be taking
any questions having to do with
technology if you have any particular
questions specifically to do with ubuntu
and what we're doing here today
I'd love to answer those for you as well
I'm just looking at some questions
coming in here so let's jump right back
to a bunch of here so this is just a
clean installation of the desktop
environment there's so many new things
that are just absolutely astounding
you're going to love this I'm just going
to load up a couple of new windows here
just to get a few things going you can
see obviously we've got all the visual
effects you would expect from a modern
operating system now it should be
pointed out as well I mean we're doing
all this and you're seeing this the
beauty of the Ubuntu desktop and it
should be noted that this is an
absolutely free operating system so you
can actually go to their website and
download the entire operating system and
just burn it to a CD and install it on
your computer you can even test it
directly from the from the CD without
installing it and you'd be able to use
that like that so this is absolutely
free everything that you're looking at
here we're going to be looking at some
games a little later on as well and I
think you'll be amazed at the quality of
some of the games that are available for
the Linux desktop so I'm just loading up
a whole bunch of windows here just kind
of demonstrate that some of the special
effects that are included with this
system now we've kind of come to love
the you know the new style of tests with
the switching like this the alt tab
where you see a preview of the window
that you're working with it's very very
cool very nice to have that thumbnail
preview but compiz fusion has taken a
one step further and given us this 3d
virtual kind of look to it with the
reflections you can see the reflections
down at the bottom just really takes it
to the next level people who are
familiar with with Windows Vista would
would have seen very similar effects to
that and we can actually just by
changing a few little settings here
let's just pull up a couple of things
here
you can just see the vastness of prompt
is fusion these are all different
plugins modules that you can modify
completely whether it be the wobbly
windows if you want to change the way
that the cube is reflected when you're
spinning it around like this if you want
to change your your backdrop there which
is called a sky dome you can do that as
well the sky dome that I've got here
I've just I've actually put up on my own
personal website and i'll give you a
link to that and the desktop wallpapers
from my favorite place to get wallpaper
that's interface lift calm let's just
see if i can find what I'm looking for
there's just so much stuff just amazing
here we go
well I'm sure we're getting close here
look at me I had it earlier and I can't
find it today it's not funny this is of
course now I just got this this better
version today so I'm excited to be able
to see this running on a desktop as well
because I've been running feisty for
quite some time actually since the bed
of feisty came out so so this is nice to
see that they're really improving the
way things work and the wiggins that
everything is kind of proud of detected
and once you know that I couldn't find
the feature that i want to show you but
it's not that very big of a deal but
just to show that it is very very
customizable there's so much stuff that
that can be done to make this look the
way that you want it to look and of
course the task switching is just come a
long way
so the Ubuntu desktop is a debian based
desktop which is Linux and it's been
around for some time now but it is
holding about twenty-five percent as far
as the most recent stats I could find
about twenty-five percent of the desktop
linux market so of all the people who
are using Linux about twenty-five
percent of them are using Ubuntu it is a
gray operating system it's very stable
and and they always have a great
turnaround of operating systems like
I've been running feisty since well I
guess that is seven point oh four i
believe so that would be 2007 january
march april so that was the last time
they brought it out so from april to
october they've been working like crazy
to bring out a new operating system and
they've gone and done it so this is
ready to go on the 18th so if you're
interested in that drop over to our
forums at TB Robbie f calm and I'll
actually post up a nice little link for
you they actually can take a look at the
operating system for yourself and again
I remind you that you can actually run
it from the disc itself you don't have
to install but i definitely recommend
that you do if you have any questions
for us I'd love to take some questions
right now and all you have to do is just
drop on to our website at TV Ravi f calm
alternatively you can get me on msn TV
hat Ravi F calm and you can email that
same address as well so do have a couple
of questions here coming in so I'll just
take a look here
and I should mention the category 5 is a
free service so if you'd like to call in
long distance charges are all that apply
705 739 1056 if you have skype you can
call in to that number and save some
pennies
okay looking at we covered one of the
questions that we had come in from holly
was asking about getting her acer
orbicam working on her laptop and she
had just dropped me a line saying that
so she didn't uninstall her current
drivers but she did try to install the
drivers that we recommend it but it's
not working so again I must reiterate
Holly that you do have to first remove
the drivers that you have in there you
mentioned that in your remove programs
list in in vista you're seeing the two
copies of the drivers perhaps three now
that you've installed at extra ones you
definitely want to get those out first
don't be afraid to like as long as
you're removing the right thing don't
don't remove stuff that looks critical
that we're just working with your your
orbicam right now and of course it's not
working right now anyway so it's safe to
remove what what you see there that
carries the acer orbicam drivers you
know you know what you're what you're
seeing there so the ones that you see in
that list you want to get those out of
there first and then remove your
computer because Windows likes you to
reboot it just because that make sure
that it's doing a tidy uninstall so if
there's anything they couldn't uninstall
something that was that was locked up
when it tried to remove it that can be
removed during the boot up process so
you want to get those out reboot your
computer and then go grab that that
driver that I recommend it for you last
week I won't repost the link because
it's in the episode to form but let us
know how that goes make sure you remove
them then install the new ones okay
alright we're taking phone calls at 70
5739 1056 if you have any questions with
regards to technology all you have to do
is give me a call also you can drop me
an email or an msn at the same address
TV at Robby F calm I'm going to jump
right back to our bug to desktop that
we're working on here and now one of the
things that that they're really priding
themselves on is the fact that they've
added better support for plugging play
printers now this is something that
typically in Linux well you know what it
hasn't been bad and certainly a buncha
has done a really great job in the past
I've never had a problem with IC or
anything like that even my printers that
would be considered a little more
difficult to set up I haven't really had
much trouble with but then again I'm not
really a nun user so with with the new
gutsy given desktop they have designed
it in such a way that that it's supposed
to automatically detect your printer and
install the drivers for you without me
for disk or anything like that so so
what I wanted to do today just because
this is my first time trying gutsy as
well it's just plugging a printer and
see what happens so let's give that a go
i'm just going to UM what i've done is
i've got a HP business inkjet 1100
series printer that I've just dropped up
here I haven't plugged it into the
computer yet so I'm just going to drop
that right into the USB port so if we
just watch our desktop let's see what
happens and we're both going to learn
this at the same time because I haven't
done this yet
this is is as real as TV gets all right
i'm plugging in the USB port now
and so far there haven't been any
pop-ups or anything well there's
something going on up at the top I see a
little magnifying glasses just popped up
and it says no document skewed so I
guess that's a print queue already that
is what it is it's a print queue
could it be that it's already installed
it without even having the prompt for
anything let's just hold of that HP
business inkjet 1100 is ready for
printing I pushed the only button that
there was which is configure and look at
that everything looks like it's
installed and ready to go unbelievable
once again the people that who want to
have done it they pulled it off and
they've kept up with their promises and
you know what this is just the the
better version of the operating system
so I cannot wait to see what the you
know because you figured that the better
version is not as stable as as what
you've come to expect from the operating
system so and that worked really well
now I don't know if this printer itself
actually works because I've never used
it and it's been sitting for some time
so but I'm just going to send a job to
it just to see if it's going to take a
print
it may not even have any ink and I'm not
sure but it does look like Ubuntu dezeen
it's got the print job it's ready to go
so we'll see if that comes up obviously
a superb feature on Ubuntu spark so if
you've ever had trouble setting up a
printer in Linux well it looks like look
no further than gutsy gibbon because
they've made that more simple than even
I expected I kind of thought that I have
to follow a couple of prompts that was
pretty awesome so I've also got a
scanner here that I'd like to try it's
just an I'm just using you know generic
stuff that I've just got sitting around
HP printer I've got a canon scanner so
nothing that's meant to be you know
quote unquote linux compatible it's just
standard stuff that you pick up at the
local computer store so i honestly don't
think that this printer works but to see
it the the plug-and-play works that well
is phenomenal this is just an old
printer that that came in and should
probably go in the garbage that it
hasn't put that worked wonderful
so now why don't we let's give that the
scanner a test now if you're watching
right now all you have to do to get your
question into me it's just either email
or msn me at TV at Robbie f calm and you
can also give us a phone call if you
like it's 70 5739 1056 this is a free
service and all you have to do is just
e-mail msn or call in and i'll be happy
to answer your technological questions
doesn't necessarily have to have to do
with what we're demonstrating with a bun
to today that's just something that I
wanted to show you but if you have any
questions if you're having trouble with
with windows any version of Windows any
version of linux I'll be happy to assist
with that even general technologies such
as digital cameras or printers or
scanners or pretty much anything as you
know if you stumped me then good for you
but if I know the answers for you I'd be
very very happy to help you out and
there's no charge for that for you so
it's a little bit of a bonus for you I
love those effects isn't that awesome
okay now we're going to drop that that
scanner in so I'm just going to put a
scanner up here just a flatbed can sit
up here so let's plug that in see if
anything happens
so I'm going to unplug the printer which
didn't print because it's a bogus
printer but not move on to this one okay
scanner is now plugged in so I'm just
going to drop right back over to ubuntu
desktop here and let's just go straight
into our camp graphic editor
and let's see if that if that scanner
works this is the first time I plugged
in the scanner of course it's the first
time that I've even loaded gimp on this
system because it is a fresh install so
we just go file acquire xane and on the
device dialogue and let's see what
happens here alright well let's it looks
like it's taking so let's just throw
something in there see what i have here
that we can scan maybe just manual from
from my motherboard how's that work okay
so I'm going to just drop this in the
standard like I need to tell you how to
use a scanner but it's kind of
impressive if this works all right under
the box just plug and play again now I'm
just going to push acquire preview here
again looking at this thinking well we
didn't have to install any drivers we
didn't have to put in a desk even we
didn't have to do anything look at that
it's scanning right in unbelievable now
I've currently got that set to grayscale
I guess that was just the default but we
can change that over to full color okay
let's try another pre-game see how that
comes out
so you know the common misconception
with the Linux operating systems is that
well I it tends to be a misconception
that you know there's windows and
there's mac and the reason that I want
to point out to you the the Linux
operating system is worth looking into
is because the fact that it is and it's
free and you know the misconception is
that in particular well there's few
things that are missing jet
misconceptions about linux one is of
course the that people say that it's
it's not compatible with hardware I mean
we've just plugged in a printer and it
detected it and installed it perfectly
we just plugged in a scanner and with no
disks and no downloads no configuration
whatsoever we've gone and brought that
straight into the scanner interface so
what we're seeing here is that ok the
Miss the myth if you will that the Linux
has trouble with Hardware it's really
you know that that might have been the
case a long time ago but linux has
really close the gap on that you know
the desktop operating system market and
things are really looking up for the
Linux operating system look at that
that's awesome so there we are there's
my skin so that was absolutely simple
one of the other misconceptions about
Linux is for some reason okay you're
looking at the desktop there for some
reason people believe that it's ugly or
not as intuitive or not as pretty
looking at some of the other operating
systems out there and I gotta say that
is definitely a misconception I mean
here we are looking at this operating
system right now and unbelievably
beautiful this thing is just fabulous
and this is Ubuntu gutsy given that
we're looking at today now let's just
let's get a couple of things loaded up
here look at
now is that not absolutely astounding
and we can move these things around we
can drop that onto any window
so now when you get the ubuntu or linux
desktop operating system it comes with a
great suite of software packages you've
got well now you saw there i have most
of the firefox up and loaded that's
included with the operating system
newest version you get the Open Office
suite and what that is is basically your
word compatible word processor Excel
compatible spreadsheets PowerPoint
compatible presentations program you saw
me when I was scanning their brought up
the GIMP and that's version 2.4 with
with the new version of ubuntu and
that's basically like a photoshop and
don't come against me for saying that
but it is you know it's it's a Linux
kind of equivalent to photoshop of
course photoshop is you know it deals
with the 16 and 32 that images but
that's that's beside the point
essentially from from the standpoint of
a new user GIMP is everything that
you're going to need for graphic
manipulation if your web designer it's
perfect for doing web design it's great
for manipulating your your own personal
photos and things like that it's not
until you get into the real commercial
and high-end graphics that that you're
going to need something a little
higher-end than that so it has all the
tools all the filters and it's a
wonderful application that's included
again free of charge with the operating
system so it's absolutely wonderful the
version of openoffice that is included
with ubuntu gutsy is 2.3 and of course
every time that they bring out a new
version of the application it's going to
automatically update itself through your
updates up here and i'll show you that
in just a second but
we'll just bring this guy up and even if
you are a Microsoft Office user you'll
be very familiar with the interface of
openoffice it's it's designed pretty
much to be very similar in that you know
even the hotkeys and a lot of the other
way that it looks the way that it feels
and acts it's it's very easy to get used
to and not only that but it's compatible
with a lot of if not all of the document
types that microsoft office uses and
then some you know i can see from this
now just brought up an open dialogue
here and the file types of this program
supports and when we've got your
microsoft word from 97 all the way up to
XP even version 95 rich text but then
you get into stuff like lotus and
windward and word 2003 word 2007
microsoft works i mean going way back
weren't perfect so there's all these
different programs that you can you know
that this application is compatible with
look at this enormous list of file types
that you're able to open so the great
thing about this as well is the using
the Open Office application there's
pretty much not a lot of stuff that
anyone could ever email you that it like
it very very much makes your computer
Universal because if somebody emailed
you an attachment you need to be able to
open that attachment and openoffice
definitely gives you that ability and
plus it's able to export to PDF and
again that's something that you normally
may have to pay for with Adobe Acrobat
but with the OpenOffice you can actually
save it directly to PDF but then boo
bunch of gutsy is also including a
printer driver so that from any
application including your web browser
anything at all you can print directly
to PDF
so jumping right back here
now we're going to deal with a couple
more misconceptions about the linux
operating system but i'd love to take
some questions if anyone has any
questions and it's fine if you want to
just watch as well but the purpose of
this show is not just you know for me to
visually entertain you and woo you with
new technologies and and show you the
new operating systems and things like
that but I'm actually here to answer
your questions and that's really what I
want to do with this show is be able to
provide you a free opportunity to get
answers to your questions so if you have
any technological questions all you have
to do is just go on to our website at TV
Robbie F com you can also msn or email
me at the same address its TV at Robbie
F com
hold that talking you get thirsty okay
now I told you actually this so I will
howl bun two updates itself so you're
going to get a little prompt every now
and then that's going to ask you or you
know let you know that there's updates
now windows does something similar and
that you get your windows updates but
windows updates generally only have to
do with the operating system itself the
difference with ubuntu and with any
linux operating system that supports the
updating features and i think that's I
haven't seen one that doesn't this is
not just updating your operating system
and all your core components like I see
things in here that have to do with my
colonel I see things that are drivers
and not only that but it also updates
every single application that's on your
computer so if they bring out a new
version of openoffice if there's a new
word processor version if there's a new
version of the particular email client
that you choose to use doesn't matter if
it's from you know if it came with the
operating system or if you installed it
after the fact as long as you use the
synaptic or the add/remove programs to
do it to do the installation it will
automatically tell you when there's an
update and you can just follow through
with updating that software directly
through the internet again no disks no
complicated having to download and
compile the stuff yourself basically
this is a huge one less 393 updates
available to me right now that's of
course because I just installed this and
because this is a better version of the
software everyone to is working like
crazy right now to make this software
stable for the release in nine days
so of course there's going to be tons
part made tons and tons of updates over
the next couple of weeks so if I wanted
to install these updates all I would
have to do is just click this great big
install updates button and that's it
will just go through and it will do
everything for me there's nothing to it
so that keeps your computer and all of
your applications up-to-date all the
time absolutely beautiful some of the
great things that you can do
well we were looking at some of the
desktop effects and things like that I
won't get too much into that because I
you're going to play with this but once
you've installed ubuntu or testing
ubuntu you'll want to go through
confidence can fix setting manager which
if you've got it installed is going to
go under your preferences under advanced
desktop effects settings or the console
command or just from Bosch is CC sm and
you can use apt-get to install that if
you don't have it if you have any
questions about how to do that just let
me know but this basically allows you to
configure the entire special-effects end
of compiz fusion
if you have any questions for me now
we've got another half hour to the show
I'd love to take your questions all you
have to do is msme TV at Robbie f calm
you can also email that same address
we've set up a special phone line for
you to be able to call them directly to
the show and you'll be live on the air
and you can call me up at seven oh five
seven three nine ten 56
another great feature of gutsy given
that they've been working on is the
desktop search feature and i'm not
actually demonstrating that today
because they haven't quite got it set up
the way that they're going to have it
set up when when the operating system is
released it's called tracker and it can
actually be found directly on your
applications menu under accessories you
see tracker search tool and essentially
what this is going to do is allow you to
search through your entire drive
basically in an instant I've heard it
compared to Google search google desktop
where you can just let's say you
download some files and you're not
really sure where you put them or
anything like that all you have to do is
just remember a phrase that's in the
file or anything at all type it in there
and almost instantaneously it's going to
pop up you create a new file it's
automatically going to get indexed into
the system so it's going to make it a
lot easier for you to find those files
that are hiding among all your other
files on your computer channel for me
now I've got point seven five terabytes
in my computer so i think that's right
seven hundred and fifty gigabytes of
hard drive space when you have that
amount of space i find i tend to kind of
lose track of where i put stuff
sometimes you know i'll create something
beautiful i'll make a video or i'll make
a song or something and i'll save it
somewhere ingenious where I thought it
was smart to save it at the time and
then I'll have no idea where I put it so
this feature is going to make it a lot
easier for me personally to be able to
find the files that are sitting among
hard drive space is that can get pretty
vast if there comes a wasteland of files
so I think this kind of thing this kind
of innovation is very important because
as hard Roger getting bigger and as you
know
like seven hundred fifty gigs that's
huge when I was first starting into
computers it was 0 2 megabytes for the
hard drives and then we were excited my
biggest thing was when we got our one
gig hard drive and that cost so much
money to get that but now with seven
hundred fifty gigs and then growing I
mean I could put more in there at this
point there's technology to do that it's
just insane how much how much you can
lose stuff just imagine the amount of
space in the amount of files that you
fit on there okay
just looking at msn if you'd like to msn
any technological questions just drop me
a line at TV apps Ravi F com if you'd
like to call in for support 705 739 1056
you're watching category 5 technology TV
i'm your host Robbie Ferguson and I'd be
happy to answer your technological
questions so all you have to do is go to
our website at TV Ravi F com any
questions that you may have for me with
regards to technology regardless of
whether they're relevant so far to this
episode or not I'm happy to help you out
as well you can contact me by email TV
at Ravi f calm and of course you can
also add that as a buddy to your msn
list TV at Robbie f calm and I'll be
happy to answer your questions via msn
as well
so far today we've just basically been
looking at the new ubuntu gutsy gibbon
which is the seven point ten desktop
operating system it's a linux operating
system based on debian and they've
really come a long way with the new
gutsy release which comes out on october
18 2007 not to be redundant but for
those of you just joining us you have
any questions please do let me know
let's jump right back to our gutsy
desktop here you'll notice the
screensaver to this is a GL screen
Sandra it's just a beautiful kind of a
rendering of fireworks display that's
kind of obvious I know but the reason I
say it you don't even say the obvious is
the fact that this is again included
with the operating system there's
several screensavers that are included
and to me that's just a bonus I'd love
to have a nice screensaver and that
certainly is something that looks good
on my screen and I love to smoke effects
in the 3d kind of fly through and things
like that now I've actually been using
the screen saver for quite some time as
well but it's nice that it is included
with the operating system let's just see
what else we've got still open here we
can close all this kind of stuff down
and I would just like to show you
another misconception with linux and
that namely being games can you play
video games on your legs desktop
operating system now back in the day
when I was into the land tournaments and
things like that and I still enjoy that
occasionally you know but you know
having two kids and a wife and and
full-time work it's it becomes
progressively harder and harder to get
together with the buddies and just hang
out and you know build 12 computers and
put them all together and play again but
I was totally into and we were all into
unreal tournament and I'm talking game
of the year edition from 99 like the
original unreal tournament it was just
phenomenal the way that you know the
gameplay and just the cooperative play
that capture the flag the levels were
awesome and there's just so much stuff
to that game so when i look at linux and
i think you know okay if I'm going to
have my buddies over I want to have some
games that are going to be comparable to
how we used to play it so
so one of the so I basically put on the
top two games that are currently and you
know when I do have friends over these
are the top two that we're currently
playing and these again are absolutely
free to download and install on your
computer but that you require know these
versions or Linux I'm sure that they're
available yeah both of these games are
available for windows as well so so
that's cool too because if your buddies
are using Windows a year on linux
doesn't matter because you're going to
be able to you're going to be able to
play together even if you're on
different operating systems so I get
post links to both of these games right
on the forum at TV Robbie F com this is
nexius and it's a free program from
nexius calm and it's not spelled how it
sounds so again I'll put that link up
for you this one really brought us back
to our Unreal Tournament roots and it
really made us feel at home when we were
playing the head-to-head Deathmatch and
just running around and just you know
just having a good time and fraggin each
other like crazy so maps in this are
really great and we just you know it was
a fun time so you can see it is very
reminiscent to the old unreal tournament
now I've just got a couple of eggs
unboxing here right now
the graphics are you know half decent
again it really does bring me back to
Unreal Tournament oh and I like that
that was a great team that will
definitely make our screenshot gallery
so that is nexius and we're going to be
looking at another game in just a few
moments as well but i just wanted to
show you that you know here we are in a
linux operating system it's absolutely
free we've got free games that are just
you know that one just is nostalgic for
me it just takes me right back to the
Unreal Tournament but it is you know
gameplays excellent and they have got
the you know the modern alphas and and
really cool explosions and things like
that so it's not it's not like I'm
tournament in the technology necessarily
as it is it just is reminiscent of that
old old style game
you have any questions give me a call at
seven oh five seven three nine ten 56
and you can also msn me or email me at
TV at Ravi f calm have you happy to
answer any technological questions that
you have right here on category 5
if you're wondering why I'm wearing a
baseball cap today funny story i was
wearing a baseball cap when i went
fishing last week we had a great trip me
and my friend then when we were out on a
book for five or six hours and brought
home 11 fish it was a great day but i
ended up getting a sunburn right on the
back of my head right where my cap opens
up so I'm actually wearing this right
here that would be where my sunburn is
I'm wearing this just to save the
embarrassment of the whole world seeing
my silly looking sunburn I believe Phil
is just joined us as well welcome to the
show Phil today we're looking at the new
ubuntu gutsy gibbon which is being
released on the 18th of October just
nine days to go
have any questions make sure you give me
a call at seven oh five seven three nine
10 56 and of course you can also msn or
email me at TV at Ravi f calm welcome
any kind of questions regardless of
whether they're relevant to gutsy gibbon
or not which is what we're focusing the
episode on today any questions that you
have whatsoever this is what the show is
about is just to be able to be a forum
for people to be able to come on and
free of charge be able to ask their
questions and get some support right
here live on the air so we're just going
to go back to our gutsy desktop and just
take another look here and if you're
just coming in you can you can watch the
archive after the show and and you'll be
able to review everything that we've
gone through so far gutsy gibbon is the
new ubuntu desktop some will call it you
bun to which is a debian based operating
system and every six months or so they
release a new version of the operating
system and gutsy is you know and it
always is with with the bun to it always
is revolutionary everything that they do
when they release a new version of the
operating system its state-of-the-art
it's always right at the top of its game
so with them releasing Getty given some
of the features that are integrated into
the operating system are absolutely
cutting-edge such as including the
compiz fusion 3d system in the operating
system in such a way that it actually
detects if your heart hardware is is
compatible with the three E and if it is
it will automatically activate it for
you pardon me when when the system when
do once you've got to given detects your
hardware and activates the 3d it will
actually do so in in a very classy way
and then it just kind of gives you some
of the special effects it doesn't give
you the cube and it doesn't give you all
the fancy stuff like that it does give
you the biggest home well i won't i
won't wake up names yet so i'm just
learning
it does give you this plugin right off
the bat but many of the features are
kind of disabled just so that it said
it's more familiar to new users and then
you can activate the more advanced 3d
stuff like the cube if you like to phils
just asking about the the versions of
KDE on the coupon to desktop so I'm just
going to take a look at that
I personally am a gnome user myself so
I'm just going to love so I'm not
familiar with much about the qaboun to
project
this won't take long to find this
if you have any questions please msn me
or email me at TV at Ravi f calm or if
you'd like to call in your questions you
may call it 70 5739 1056
and
okay fell so with regard to your
question about ke e it looks like a
version for is still in betta from what
I can see the version that's included
with coupon 27 point 10 which is the
gutsy gibbon is three point five point
seven which I would assume is is going
to be the latest what's considered
stable version however there is a
package available that if you would like
to install KDE for that would be
absolutely simple for you to do so you
can just drop that new package and
upgrade that just like you would with
any with any software within move on to
our coupon to so so no it's not it's not
version for just yet because of the
nature of that but it is available to
you if you like to install
we've got about 12 minutes left of the
show if you have any questions please
drop me a line TV at Ravi F com or you
can call me up at seven oh five seven
three nine ten 56 in just a moment we're
going to be jumping back to our Ubuntu
gutsy gibbon system and taking a look at
the tremulous game which is a very cool
game it was voted number one at our last
LAN party and it is pretty neat because
usually we just do the deathmatch or
capture the flag things like that but it
actually is a really good like it has a
storyline to it so you would have to
well I'll kind of like to see you want
to try it but how can I let me pull up
my review here I've got a little website
where we review some games and you know
when we try these new things we we go
over them
Phil lost his wireless connection just
as I was answering his questions so
sorry about that Phil you'll have to
watch the video archive
I just answer his question on in us in
so firming let's actually got 9 out of
10 stars
and we call it an objective based game
so the neat thing and I'll 40 along the
link at the forum at TV Robbie f calm
but if you're into objective-based
exciting fast-paced games this is
definitely something you want to try you
can be either an alien or a human the
aliens are basically the jumbo size
spiders know when I say spiders they're
you know monsterous they yeah they're
freaking and then the humans you have to
basically each whether you're an alien
or human you've got to build up your
base so and then you've got to at the
same time be trying to destroy the other
space as well so this is another free
game which is unbelievable because it's
absolutely astounding
let's just take a quick look at that
not actually going to play the game just
because it is so intensely fast-paced
when you get a bunch of players in there
but just to show you kind of the
graphical content and how things were
and again I'm not doing this to promote
games and I'm not you know and and
certainly I'm more into the death match
kind of thing and first-person shooters
but just to show you that linux does
have some excellent offerings in the
gaming end of things so and this is
graphically one of the it's just
astounding now you'll see that I've
increased the brightness so you're not
getting the shadows and things that you
would normally get in the game and
that's just so that you can see it on
the web cast I didn't want it to be too
too dark so I'm just going to be a dumbo
spider here and so as a spider I can
move awfully fast and here's my lair and
these are my alien kind of things that
helped me to respawn when I die so the
humans have to try to destroy my lair
and I have to do the same to them neat
thing about being the spider they added
a really nice twist to this game in that
when you're the alien you can do a lot
if you you basically get a whole new
dimension to this three dimensional game
by being able to climb on any wall any
any roof if I want to go upside down it
totally it's totally confusing when
you're first learning it but it's
absolutely amazing I can sit here up in
the roof and watch for somebody to come
down below there because that's the
floor right above me there and then when
I'm ready I can just jump right down and
just start attacking
that's a very cool thing that they've
added to the to the game so I'm just
kind of running around with no purpose
here but basically what we want to do as
an alien is build up our alien base so
that we can respond aquia kill and it's
up to the humans to try to destroy that
base and vice versa they have to create
their base and we have to try to destroy
that so if you have a number of players
then you definitely you know this is
going to be one of the better games
because it is objective based so there's
a lot to it there's a lot of depth and
it's it's it's almost like a board game
of a video game so and Phil is just
tossing at me about enemy territory
territory being amazing and that's
absolutely true it's a phenomenal game
and it's listed on our on our top three
as well it is in the number three
position only because we we found that I
guess there weren't as many levels to
that and it just kind of but I won't say
that because again enemy territory is
another one that's an objective based
linux game it's free of charge and it's
phenomenal it's more like a world war
two simulation and you can actually i'll
post a link for that as well to the
review that one got an 8 out of 10 on
our land party review but excellent and
we've also got videos for each of these
games directly on our reviews look back
at tremulous so yeah I have to agree
with you about about that Phil what I'll
do is I'll post the links to the reviews
on the forum just after the show at
triple wter ovf com and that's just
because I'm not sure the URL will
forever remain the same so rather than
stating it in me
the video here which is going to be
constant I'd rather just post the link
so that I can change that link down the
road if I need to so that we don't have
dead links in the video so back at
tremulous an objective objective based
game and I'm getting hung Dyke it's got
phenomenal graphics phenomenal gameplay
and it is very much like a board game in
its gameplay so when you've got a lot of
guys over a lot of people girls like to
play games too don't take offense it's
just awesome it's like we just have a
lot of fun with that one as well so and
that you know I just wanted to
demonstrate that you know linux does
have some great games and those are just
a couple of them that I've done over
today definitely check out enemy
territory as well as phil was saying we
had so much fun with enemy territory we
got some we got in touch with some
people down in the states that had a
fast server and we all hooked up and
started playing head to head and they
were the good guys and we were the bad
guys and and it just was the most
amazing fun that that you can happen
because its objective based you're in
World War two kind of simulation you
have to do things like plant bombs on
the on the army tank so that so that the
enemy can't use the tank and then they
have to come out and they've got to try
to repair it with their ratchet set if
the bomb has gone off and so it's a lot
of fun because you know not only is it
it's not like a typical deathmatch it's
being objective base there's so much
more to it and there's a lot of depth to
the game so a lot of fun and it sounds
like I'll fill any time you want a land
party my man let's let's hook up
tremulous feels just saying that he can
only play tremulous for a few minutes
it's it takes a while to get used to the
gameplay and to understand the actual
purpose of the game and we actually
thought after playing that and I just
played a one-on-one with my buddy Jeff
and we did have a lot of fun but it was
really hard with only two people that
you know there's not enough there's
nothing you've got to have somebody
building and you're going to have
somebody repairing you've got to have
somebody attacking and so there's got to
be that I would say so based on that you
know three on each team would be a good
start if you've got any less than that
any less than six players it's going to
be pretty hard to play tremulous so yeah
he's just saying that he only played
with a few people so it seemed really
weird so yeah you can see my point out
because you're trying to destroy the
enemy's base and you're trying to build
up your base and you're trying to repair
your base you can't be all things at
once so if you've only got a few people
playing it's really difficult to play
that game so yeah six people are more
for tremulous enemy territory you can
play with two people and have a great
time but nice thing about enemy
territory is it's got fabulous servers
it's always really easy to pull into
people off the internet and and play
with them as well so you can get you
know an extra three players just like
that and there's no lag and there's and
it's just phenomenal
and of course enemy territory is another
game that is is cross cross operating
system compatible so if you've got some
friends who use Windows versus you using
Linux or vice versa you can play against
each other as long as you're using the
same version
kill used to play enemy territory every
Friday night how long ago was that my
friend that sounds awesome we used to do
Unreal Tournament a long time ago
are there bots and tremulous I don't
think so I've never seen any in but I've
never tried in it I think that yeah I
think that we would have probably found
it if there were I don't think there are
I might be around but
you've only got a couple minutes left to
the show I'd love to take some questions
just give me a call 705 739 1056 we're
right at the 11th hour right now or you
can also msn me or email at TV at Robbie
f calm hills just asking if I use
teamspeak we actually fill you know what
I did and I know like you know I don't
want to brag or anything but we've got a
100 100 megabit backbone to the internet
so I actually put together a 3u system
that just was designated specifically
for gaming and this was a couple years
ago but it was awesome and we did have
teamspeak server installed it was a
linux box so it was it was headless and
had teamspeak server move on 91 to an
unreal tournament server with like I
must have downloaded like a thousand
maps into that thing and I created my
own box system for unreal tournament so
they were very intelligent realistic
BOTS so yeah we've use teamspeak but
because I like kind of the Hangout kind
of aspect to playing games that's more
what I'm in it for I'm not a gamer hi
tend to like my you know to get together
with people and set up the computers all
in the same room kind of thing so we
often have not mean a teamspeak because
we usually don't do it through the
internet we usually do it right on site
any more questions we've got just about
a minute for the rest of the show so
just drop me a line TV at Ravi F com
yeah phil was just saying that he used
to run something similar but I had to
run it off for several connections heard
me because they had dsl connections and
yeah that's that's certainly true it you
know when we have this server setup on
100 megabit backbone which we use for
the business it was awesome I mean
absolutely no lag we had people logging
in like people that we knew it was a
closed server so we had people from
Australia people from from the states my
sister-in-law was at that time living
evident British Columbia at school so
she'd login and then her parents her dad
was really into the games with us as
well and we'd all just land party we had
like 12 or 15 people playing all the
ones absolutely no lag is awesome
you mentioned Phyllis just mentioning a
game called is it is that a game BZ fly
I've never heard of that
busy flag dot org is one that that Phil
says is quite fun that has new army
tanks kind of idea I'm assuming it's
like capture the flag fell there
a few different types of games that cool
well that's something to check out as
well I'll put to put a link in the in
the forum just at Phil's recommendation
so do you visit our forum it's a triple
WTV are a BF calm unfortunately we're
out of time for today but i do
appreciate everyone who's been here
today and certainly if you're watching
this after the fact in the video archive
category 5 is a program that we've
developed in order to be able to provide
you answers to your questions free of
charge so any technological questions
and if you're watching this after the
fact you can actually just go into the
forum right on the website TV at Robert
T V dot Robbie F com pardon me and if
you post your questions in the forum
that are specific to this particular
episode you'll be able to get an answer
that way otherwise tune in every tuesday
night at seven pm eastern and we'll be
happy to i'll be happy to answer your
questions that way so thanks again for
joining us tonight and have a wonderful
wonderful night
