welcome to category five technology TV
episode number 418 for Tuesday the 22nd
of September 2015
great to have you here tonight we have
an exciting product review for you we're
gonna be taking a look at the new ET
4550 from Epson it is from their eco
tank line you heard us talking about it
a little bit on the show last week but
this is the printer that is doing away
with ink cartridges so stick around and
you'll find out all about that on this
the season finale of season 8 sascha
tomatoes how are you I am great here's
what's coming up in the category 5 TV
newsroom spot the dog leg robot from
Google's Boston Dynamics has passed the
test with the Marine Corps Apple's App
Store in China has been infected with
malware a 3d printed windpipe has been
used to practice delicate surgery before
an operation on a six-year-old girl at
London's Great Ormond Street Hospital
Facebook users are being told to steer
clear of a scam that promises early
access to the dislike button and
Microsoft has built a linux distro stick
around the full details are coming up
later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV
starring sasha dramatis
hillarie Rumble
Christo wells
your kid
and your host Robbie Ferguson
episode number 418 hey I'm Robby
Ferguson I'm Hilary Rumble Hilary how
are you keeping it real guys I don't
know just uh growing a human oh do tell
I'm growing a human inside of me so if
you're wondering if the camera adds ten
pounds no it's just me
well congratulations baby on board how
long about four months now yeah so
that's kind of big news and that is big
here we are we're stepping into season
nine and I guess what January February
yeah it's true that's great well
congratulations cute exciting it's crazy
chat room going wild good guy ninety
eight says congrats Hilary Dreamweaver
909 same thing congratulations to Chris
and Linden same congratulations
Toby who we haven't seen in the long
game Toby
welcome see ya virtual ha no seriously
your screen it get it all right lots to
cover tonight interesting fact about
category 5 at this point before we get
into our future mm-hmm we look at the
numbers and as we wrap up season 8 this
has been a time of transition for us we
we adopted this studio studio D at the
beginning of season 8 that was when we
moved in and since then we've been
growing we've been growing the network
and the numbers are in every 3 seconds
of the day whoa every three seconds of
the day two people somewhere in the
world click on one of our shows watch
that is crazy
isn't that awesome it's a credible you
can go to cat5 map
dot cat5 dot TV if you want to see the
viewer location map it shows pins for
where people are watching from thank you
so much for tuning in and making
category-five such a popular show with
category 5 technology TV and our network
continues to grow as viewership is
increasing on the other shows as well
also big news from Nate UK who's joining
us I believe in the chat room Nate UK
has been developing a Kodi channel or an
add-on for Kodi users for category 5 TV
network and that has entered stable so
that means it's ready to go it's ready
to deploy it's ready to add to your Kodi
installation so hey if you use Kodi get
on over to github.com slash cat 5 TV you
can download that for free that's thanks
to our viewer Nate UK has been doing
some programming for us and helping us
to grow on to other platforms that's
really great news and also I want to say
thanks to everyone who has also
contributed monetarily and mate UK has
found a cool way to donate time people
who have been able to support us by
simply going to our affiliate links it's
a really cool way to support
category-five help us to grow help us to
maintain the network by paying the bills
and and all that but going through our
affiliate links you're gonna purchase
things from Amazon or Ebay anyways we've
got new egg Canada there are a whole
bunch of different shops that you can
shop with through our affiliate links
and by doing that a percentage of your
sale actually goes to help category 5 as
a referring basically for the referral
so also if you go to category 5 dot TV
slash partners slash Amazon dot php'
it's the long roundabout way to get
there and also click on partners and
you'll see the Amazon link for the
generator you can take any Amazon
product paste the link in and it will
turn it into a referral link for you so
that you can support the show by making
that purchase so if you've already got
your eyes on something and you didn't
click our link you can actually go back
there and convert it to a referral link
as well so that's cool
shout out to our viewers all around the
world and as
said nice to see Toby there we've got
Rob shad also in the chatroom Leyland
Life of Pi good guy 98 always a pleasure
gwg nice to have you back during a live
show as well it's always nice to see
Garbi I'll Peck good to see ya pal Peck
was actually here in the studio really
well to get to meet somebody who
traveled I guess about four hours to get
here and spent the evening in the studio
and got to hang out with us so that was
very cool so thanks for making the trip
it nice to see you here alive tonight
again appreciate that category five dot
TV is a member of the tech podcast
network if it's tech it's here and you
can find more info by visiting cat5 TV
slash TPN and we're a member of the
international association of internet
broadcasters for more info visit cat5
dot TV slash i-i be thanked so I'll Peck
in the chatroom wants to clarify it's
actually four and a half hours to get
did that for us Wow you ready take a
look this thing yes well before we stand
up because I know you're with child and
you know so we'll just take it easy the
epson workforce ET forty five fifty eco
tank is a foreign one printer it's got
Wi-Fi
it's got ethernet it's got the works i'm
gonna try to cover as much as we can
tonight but basically it's the latest
thing from epson and i want to share
some frightening stats with you
frightening i mentioned it last week
when a viewer asked a question about the
eco tank line when I think about ink
cartridges and you think about the the
k-cup coffee machines and how it's this
big it's this big spiel right now that
it's so bad for the environment because
all these things are ending up in the
landfill but we're we're not putting
enough attention is on other products
like that that have something that is
disposable that is being thrown in the
landfill and is not decomposing
ink cartridges are the big one it takes
up to about a thousand years sometimes
more depending on the conditions for a
single ink cartridge to biodegrade as
its doing that it's leaking chemicals
into the earth from the printer ink
itself that's within that cartridge as
it biodegrades
from the metals that are a part of the
the heads of that cartridge so it's
really really bad for the earth and it
takes a long time for it to disappear
and the scary thing is there are about
375 million cartridges per year that are
discarded 70% of those end up in a
landfill or in an incinerator which is
another whole other ballgame as far as
bad for the environment
so it's an astronomical number like
we're talking 375 million 70 percent of
that going into a landfill and taking a
thousand years so it's got to stop
somewhere and Epson has created this new
line of printers called the eco tank
which I would like to take a look at and
show what do you know from an
environmental standpoint but also from
hey this is a really good quality
printer whoa standpoint as well see if I
can keep my mic on okay here we go here
we go we're golden
so with the et 4550 and the entire line
from Epson the Eco tanks let's get that
out of our way one of the things that's
really amazing as I was saying about
cartridges being disposable this does
not use cartridges at all not one iota
and in fact there is a reservoir here
for the four different colors well three
colors and black and with each reservoir
one of the things with ink cartridges
you think about a color cartridge what
happens when you run out of yellow ink
my pictures get mad your pictures get
massive we have to replace the whole
cartridge so it doesn't care whether
you've still got magenta or cyan yeah if
you've got to replace the whole thing
with this you see that we've actually
got all the ports right here so if I'm
low on blue ink I can just open this up
and I can point
and I just do that from the ink bottles
that are available for the printer love
it so these are just okay like this so
you just pop the cap and they come in a
sealed container so they don't go bad on
you on the shelf or whatever so they're
they'll hold for a long time very smart
design and these actually come with the
printer so there's enough ink that comes
with this printer for probably about two
years worth of printing the equivalent
of about 50 sets of cartridges my comes
with this and as you see it's just this
so as I run out of black ink I can just
pop the cap on the black I can pour some
in this has a handy lid as well so I can
pop the lid back on that and store it
somewhere safe and then I'm up in
printing so simple I love it main
features that I want to just share with
you it's the ink bottles of course the
question is going to come up in the chat
room but just to let you know it's it's
extremely economical to buy the ink
bottles they come like this so it's it's
a very low cost to operate it has duplex
printing it will print both sides
automatically plus it's got a 30 sheet
sheet feeder at the top so if you want
to scan make photocopies or say fax a
document that's similar pages long you
can actually put them in here and it
will pull those through on to the
flatbed scanner size flatbed scanner
here and that's all automatic as well if
you use the sheet feeder then excuse
them out here which just makes it very
very convenient as I mentioned it has
the built-in wireless and very very easy
to setup there are good instructions to
come with it I didn't even look at the
instructions to be honest because it's
really intuitive I just go into Wi-Fi
setup it's got a wizard it just prompts
it detected my wireless network prompted
me for the password and I was connected
and up and running Wow so what does that
give me well I've got the printer is now
Wireless so as you can see I just moved
it over here just to be on the set so
that you could see it tonight and it's
and I can print to it you can put it
anywhere in the house anywhere in the
office if you want to use it for small
business use but also you can print to
it from your cell phone
Android or iOS device if you've got a
tablet or a smartphone even the Amazon
fire tablets you can actually print
wirelessly to this printer and if you
use their app you can in fact print to
it through the internet as well so it
doesn't even matter if you're in the
same place you could be halfway around
the world see something cool send it to
your home there oh and if you don't have
wireless at home you can actually set
the printer up as a kind of a hotspot so
to speak they do have a phrase for it's
called Wi-Fi direct and what it will let
you do is without a wireless network you
can print from your phone your tablet
directly to the printer because your
phone is actually communicating with the
printer directly even the wireless
network so they've really really thought
it out you can check out more about this
printer at cat5 dot TV slash print we're
gonna be looking in a couple of minutes
I'm gonna actually set this up and we're
gonna throw it let's see how it works
it's like I say easy to set up it comes
with a two-year warranty if you fill in
that warranty card so that's pretty
fantastic and it works not only on the
tablets and everything but Windows Mac
Linux what say we take a look at how it
works let's do it and if you want
anything else in the chatroom if you
want to see anything about this printer
let us know we're gonna do some b-roll
after the show and show you some of the
interface and show you everything here
so if you're watching this after the
fact you've already seen that but let's
let's throw this on the linux because on
the side of the box here's one of the
things on the side of the box it says
Windows from XP all the way up to
Windows 10
and Mac OS 10 various versions of Mac
what it doesn't say on the box is Linux
hmm
it must have been a typo I believe
you're right it must have been a typo if
you go to cat 5 dot TV slash print and
Hillary will be watching the chat room
as well so if you have questions about
the printer as we're doing this live
demonstration please do feel free to
ping her if she's in the chat room as
Hillary and you can feel free to
interrupt me and
certainly but that so head on over to
cat five dot TV slash print looks just
like that beauty alright when you go
there that's going to take you over to
our shop and you'll see the printer
right there by the time you get there it
may have a couple of other ones as well
but look at this I've got a button there
for get the Linux drivers let's click on
it and see what happens so you'll see
that even though this printer on the box
on the website says windows in that Mac
never it doesn't say Linux anywhere it
really should they do provide the Linux
drivers for you and we're gonna watch
for that how to set this up tonight you
can see I've already gone through just
to make sure everything works great so
we're gonna jump over to Linux drivers
for Epson printers and enter our model
number this is the et - 4 5 5 0 in our
case and you'll notice it's already
pre-selected Linux let's do a search ok
first option is the et 4550 printer
driver for Linux so I'm gonna click on
the download there it shows us all the
printers that are compatible and then I
can click on accept it gives me the file
here ok and this is really the only
thing that you need to know to make sure
you select correctly you see this is an
RPM package so that's Red Hat
derivatives
this is deb package so that's debian
derivatives this is a 64-bit RPM and a
64-bit deb and then source packages as
well so because I'm on a Debian
derivative my distribution is point
Linux it's based on Debian so I want the
deb package I know that I've got AMD 64
if you're not sure about how did how to
know that I mean if you installed your
own operating system you probably know
that anyways but you could probably just
jump into terminal type sudo you name -
a enter your password and it'll show you
see that Linux AMD 64 debian Deb so I
know that I'm on a Debian derivative and
I'm running AMD 64 which is the 64-bit
version so that's the file that I want
on my Linux system
Epson ink jet printer ESC PR 1.5.2 is
the version and amd64 Debbie so I click
on download it's gonna automatically
want to open it with GW package manager
which is the Installer which is gonna
open deb packages and tell me what it
can do so i didn't have any problems
installing this earlier there are about
24 other packages that needed to be
installed you'll see that it went in
just fine it's asking me if i want to
reinstall that that's because i did this
a little bit earlier just to make sure
everything was going to go smoothly
tonight but there will be a button there
that says install and a button that
tells you about the packages that it's
going to deploy as well which is
basically the ability of the backend to
be able to install this driver so that
went really well so the next step is
okay well we've got to add our printer
so typically what you would want to do
is go system administration printing and
you see that you don't have a printer
and you're gonna click on add well
that's not how we're going to do it
because we're using a printer driver
provided for c UPS i'm gonna leave this
dialog open though so that we can see
that this has been successful when it
has been successful but let's jump over
to see UPS which is installed in our
system this is the the linux printing
system that runs in the background
giving us printer support so in order to
access that on any linux system where
it's installed by default is going to be
localhost colon
631 and just hit enter so you just have
localhost colon 631 and that is I'm
doing this in Firefox you can do this in
any internet browser and you'll see I'm
in C UPS one point five point three so
click on administration and then add a
printer and it will ask you for a
password well what is my C UPS password
it is my username and password for my
Linux computer so I go and I see okay
unable to add printer forbidden
end of the line right I should hope a
Linux on the box what do we do what do
we do okay so we're gonna go into
administration and I want to show you
users and groups go into manage groups
and there is a group here called LP
admin that's line printer of men it
gives you access to using C UPS as an
administrator hit properties and you'll
see that my name is not checked off so
that means I am not a member of the
group on Linux it's very secure
operating system so I'm not a member of
the group that has the authority to make
changes to add this printer to my
computer let's get around that hmm so I
can close out of this dialog I only open
that just to show you and we can bring
it back up again to show you once we fix
it go into your terminal remember we're
doing this on Linux on Windows I should
say on Mac there's a CD that comes with
it you pop it in yeah follow the
directions on the screen and it's up and
running within a couple moments so this
too is very very simple you'll see if
you follow the steps wow this really is
actually simple you just got to know
where to look and what's great it's a
little less intuitive and maybe that's
why they don't put it on the box because
they don't want to have to support
something that is a little bit more
hands-on so in my case I want to add
myself to that group so what I want to
do is go sudo which is super user do
user mod so I'm going to modify my user
account and I'm gonna say - a - a - G -
a group notice it's a small a capital G
the group name that I want to add myself
to is LP admin and the username that I'm
adding to that is Robbie enter my
password to make that command happen it
doesn't give me any input but now if I
go back to user settings and I go manage
groups and I go down to LP admin and
bring up the properties you'll see my
name now has a checkbox and I know that
group okay so now if I close out of all
that which I only opened for the sake of
helping you to see now I'm back here
where I got the air I'm gonna click on
administration and I'm gonna click on
Add Printer and you'll notice now ba
bada ba Beauty what discovered Network
printers
there's four of them now I just pick the
first one all it's doing is it's just
detecting the different various ways
that it can connect first one is always
fine if the first one didn't work for
you can remove it choose the second one
because each printer has various ways
that you can connect to it I'll just
select the first one and we'll hope for
the best
so I've clicked on that and now I'm
gonna go continue give it a friendly
name if you like give it a description
if you want to share it on your network
I'm just gonna use all the defaults and
say continue and now this is very
important okay this is the Epson ET 4550
printer so we need to make sure that we
select the correct driver so you notice
from this list now that we've installed
the Epson driver we've got access to
everything so we can just scroll down to
the ET 45:50 and I could type it
I expect wow they got a lot of EPL's
stuff going out there and only a few ets
because they are brand new so there's
the ET 4550 and then I'm gonna go add
printer notice I don't need to browse
for a PPD file because I already
installed everything that I need
I'm gonna go add printer and if all goes
well now it's just asking me for my
default settings which I can just leave
as is I'm done if I go now
administration and manage printers
you'll see there's an Epson ET 4550
series printer and it is sitting in idle
mode okay so the moment of truth is to
say okay well what happens if I try to
print let's go back to my printer dialog
you'll notice that I now have that
printer as part of my installed printers
on Linux I'm gonna right-click on it and
go properties and click on print test
page now of course you can go through
all the properties here for the printer
let's see what we have
grayscale on or off we talked about that
last week if you want to conserve the
color ink you can switch to grayscale
mode and then you're not going to be
using the color ink in order to print
black it will use the black ink do you
want to use duplex printing
automatically print on both sides that
can be handy if you're printing
something that would work better on
two-sided printing
and it saves paper again so and then
your media size etc etc so all that
stuff is a part of the Linux driver it's
good to go so print test page let's see
what happens
test page submitted and if all goes well
one of the things you're gonna notice
here it's already feeding paper it's
already printing there it is print gave
me an extra page here it is printing Oh
out of paper okay
we put one bit more than one page in for
the test yeah so gives us a chance to
look at the tray anyways but you see
wirelessly now I've sent the signal to
to that printer from Linux that is
pretty incredible there you go okay now
print says preparing printing one of the
nice things about this too is that we've
got the clear reservoirs over here so we
can actually see the levels of the
printer and yes I like that it's a lot
easier than than guesswork right so
that's printing out just fine I've got a
CPS test page coming out what I wanted
to say and I know that we got that
hiccup that I only had one page in there
and that was unfortunate but it doesn't
take a long time to warm up there's no a
long time it just starts printing and
there you go beautiful full-color
works on Linux the workforce ET 4550 is
blazingly fast it delivers rich and
saturated colors it's got laser quality
text as well which is impressive for an
inkjet and I love the fact that we're
not going through ink cartridges we're
able to top it up as we need to so even
if you've got half levels of blue ink
just top it up so II topped it up you
can see that aside there's no drying
time as well on the pages so you don't
have to worry about pulling it off the
printer right away you're not going to
get in Chania you're not going to get
it's not going to smear or anything like
that
that is the epson workforce ET 4550 eco
tank it's a four in one printer it's got
the Wi-Fi it also has Ethernet if you
want to avoid the wireless using a
wireless network it's got a tall it's
got the fax as well do people use a fax
thing or sometimes and sometimes it's
tough when you don't have access to one
because they are a little harder to come
by so just having it as a part of your
printer is kind of a nice business
actually paid sheet feeder as well so
thoughts comments in the chat room has
there been any question that I'm asked
people were just asking initially how to
access the link for their website which
is cat5 dot TV slash print that'll take
you to more information about the
printer as well as get you that lineage
yeah yeah yeah the drivers that they
were also asking for it well I have a
question though how hard is it to set up
on a device to connect your device it's
really easy actually I don't have one
that I can demonstrate here on the show
perhaps when we demo the printer on try
it buy it Sasha we'll set it up on your
phone and and show off I think we'll
show off that feature oh there's a
there's an app that you can install on
your device from Epson it's called I
print and that gives you the ability to
print from your sorry sash we've got
Sasha there there we go
we it gives you the ability to print
from your from your own okay so you have
to install the app that seems for yeah
and but that said you could also use the
email features you can actually email a
file or an email to a special secret
email address for your printer and you
just add it to your contact list and
anything that you email to that email
address will automatically come out of
your printer that's so there are ways
around needing to use certain types of
devices apps and you can you can scan
directly to the cloud it's a really
smart printer and it's it's current like
all the feature set that has gone into
this is exactly what you would hope for
in a mod
so cool I love it knowing cartridges
saving the environment one print said it
to saving the environment saving me
money at the same time of it great can I
interrupted you a birthday shout out a
bunch of birthdays in the chat room
right now so there's Dreamweaver 909
Dreamweaver 909 happy 60 on Sunday way
to go good guy 98 was it was his
birthday yesterday answer once this is
today all these September babies Senor
wences happy birthday and sorry it was
the other good guy now everybody it's
your birthday get on over to cap 5 dot
TV slash print and get you one of these
I'd be a great gift a great gift for
self
this is category 5 technology TV welcome
to the show
triple w category 5 dot TV is where
you'll find us if you've got questions
about the epson workforce ET 4550 eco
tank printers make sure you send them
our way send us an email how can we do
that live at category 5 TV beauty we're
gonna head on over to the newsroom
without further ado without it's Tuesday
September 22nd 2015 and here are the
stories were covering this week spot the
dog like robot from Google's Boston
Dynamics has passed the test with the
Marine Corps Apple's App Store in China
has been infected with malware and it's
official apps like WeChat are
distributing the virus doctors in London
have used a 3d printed model of a little
girl's windpipe to make her surgery much
easier and safer those who like Facebook
need to be wary of a new scam that
promises early access to the dislike
feature then pigs are flying fat ladies
are singing and in all seriousness
Microsoft has built a Linux distro these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda
calm through our special link at cat5
dot TV / Linda learned software
technology creative and business skills
you can use today to help you achieve
your professional goals join today and
start learning we'll give you this
chance to try it absolutely free with
unlimited access to all of the courses
sign up now for free cat5 dot TV / Linda
I'm Sasha through Madison here are the
top stories from the category 5 TV
newsroom in a series of drills this week
the Marine Corps tested whether a new
four-legged companion had what it takes
to work with infantrymen in a very
variety of situations the subject of the
tests was Boston Dynamics spot robot a
160 pound Hydra hydraulically actuated
Quadra pet quadruped ed I can't say that
four-legged robot first revealed by the
Google subsidiary in February spot was
brought to the Marine Corps Base in
Quantico Virginia home of the Marine
Corps combat development command by a
team from DARPA controlled wirelessly by
a game controller tethered to a laptop
computer a spot robot was put through a
number of different terrain conditions
and situations maneuvering through hills
woods and urban environments the
operator can be as far away's 500 meters
and doesn't need to be in the line of
sight in an urban combat drill spot was
sent ahead into a building as a scout
ahead of a marine squad to look for
potential threats a role the Army and
Marine Corps might have used working
dogs for in the past Captain James
Panero head of the Marine Corps Wharf
war fighting labs Quantico branch says
spot is great and has exceeded the
metrics that we've provided the Marines
working with spot have been very
receptive to the new technology embrace
it and came up with new ideas we
couldn't have even dreamed of this is
great because I mean we had working dogs
for a long time that would work in place
of humans right to save human lives and
now robots have gotten
far enough ahead like in developed
enough that now we're not putting the
pressure off on the lives of dogs as
well so the resiliency of robots I mean
they can go into into different
environments that dogs can't go into
right so absolutely yeah and from an
animal you know not being cruel to
animals standpoint of course there's the
fact that like you say well they used to
send real dogs and everything but one
they can carry a pretty heavy load these
robots but also as you say they can run
into places that are extremely dangerous
you think about volatile environments
where you know something is coming down
or something as or is going down and
they can go in scope it out no doubt
they've got HD cameras and I can see
first-person view what's going on where
they are see what's going on in the
building before they send in real live
animals or humans which is ideal I mean
I picture something like a Mars rover
like I don't know like I just picture
them being able to go in and even take
samples like air samples to see whether
or not it's an environment that's been
poisoned don't you why not right
so this is a great development and it's
hard to get into the Marine Corps I hear
so way to go spot alright Apple's App
Store has been infected with Xcode ghost
malware in China and its distribution is
taking place through official apps
cybersecurity firm Palo Alto Networks
which has analyzed the malware dubbed
Xcode ghost said the perpetrators would
also be able to send fake alerts to
infected devices to trick their owners
into revealing information it added they
could also read an alter information in
compromised devices clipboards which
would potentially allow them to see
logins copied to and from and password
management tools yes yeah it is thought
to be the first large-scale attack on
Apple's App Store the hackers created a
counterfeit version of Apple software
for building iOS apps which they
persuaded developers to download apps
compiled using the tool allow the
attackers to steal data about users and
send it to servers that they control
infected apps include the hugely popular
WeChat app that uses music downloading
app and didi cow tease uber like car
hailing app these are all like imagine
very popular daily use apps some of the
affected apps including the business
card scanner cam card are also available
outside China Apple spokeswoman
Christine monoghan says we are working
with the developers to make sure that
they're using the proper version of
Xcode to rebuild their apps time these
app developers have admitted that they
resorted to downloading the painted
software kit for developers from
unofficial third-party sources because
of slow downloading speeds from Apple's
official servers located overseas many
complain the US tech giant should do
more to support developers in the
company's second biggest market in
response today Apple marketing chief
Phil Schiller told the Chinese news site
that moving forward Apple will offer
domestic downloads within China of its
software for developing apps the thing
that worries me about this is how would
you know if it's the Apple App Store
right you wouldn't know if you were
downloading an app you tend to trust it
don't ya of course you kind of think
that there's quality control that is
monitoring what goes in to the degree
that you think anything that you install
is safe but it's kind of an old-school
attack that they use the compiler that
program that creates apps in order to
infiltrate all these apps so it's not
like the apps were in the App Store and
then got infected no the people who were
developing these apps were using a non
official version of the software to
create apps and it reminds me of a lot
of torrent sites and illegal download
sites you'll see things like web
templates so commercial web templates
for WordPress or whatever that you think
oh well I could pay for them
legitimately through whatever company
sells them or I can download them
illegally ah it's only ten dollars it
doesn't hurt anyone well sure it does
but also the person who shared it put
some
some code in there to infect and
infiltrate and grab your information and
all kinds of stuff so it's never safe to
use stuff that is not from an official
source but you're right yeah I mean a
little bit I mean the download speeds
for from the standpoint of the people
that had downloaded the third-party it
was because they said that the download
speeds just weren't fast enough yeah
right now I mean I'm happy that Apple is
stepping up and and making the download
speeds more available or easier and
faster because it's so easy to let
yourself be swayed by something like
that so happily Apple is making it
easier to stay legit and then keeping us
safe all right this is great news a 3d
printed wim pipe has been used to
practice delicate surgery before an
operation on a six-year-old girl at
London's Great Ormond Street Hospital it
meant doctors could pick the correct
tools needed to wash her lungs and as a
result Katey Park from Northern Ireland
needed to spend less time under
anaesthetic and being ventilated doctors
at the hospital say the technology could
also be used to train other doctors KT
has pulmonary aval are prone prognosis
which means grainy deposits build up on
the microscopic air sacs in her lungs
making it hard to breathe regularly
washing the lungs with salt water is the
only way to depart to remove the
deposits during Katie's operation one of
her lungs needed to be ventilated while
the other one was cleaned and normally
surgeons waste time on the operating
table trying multiple combinations of
different sized tubes in order to
perform the delicate surgery the team at
the Great Ormond Street Hospital used a
cat scan of Katie to print out a 3d
rubber model of Katie's trachea they
could then select the tools that they
needed ahead of the operation Owen
Arthur's a consultant radiologist who
organized the study told the BBC News
website we can look at a 3d
reconstruction on the computer but this
takes it into a whole new
being able to hold it in your hand makes
the procedure much easier and safer this
is a really like another great use of 3d
printers I think that this will catch on
in hospitals everywhere because I can't
imagine how easy it is to be I guess
afraid or to be hesitant to go in and do
a procedure if you don't know exactly
what's going on here you have a 3d
trachea printed up now you know with
confidence where you're going what tools
you're using yeah
I mean you could use it for you know
other procedures I'm sure it's an
amazing thought me and computer
programming as I go to a customer site
what do I do I probably spend a couple
hours before I go there having already
worked out the details of how I'm going
to fix the problem so I am well armed
with the knowledge and ability because
I've worked my way through it before
even showing up so the six-year-old kid
shows up for surgery she doesn't have to
go through the discomfort of them
figuring out what to do they've already
been able to do it using a 3d rendered
model 3d rendered model from a cat scan
which is really actually hers yeah and
it's not invasive at all to go get a cat
scan right so you could really have a
cat scan 3d printed image of a brain for
a brain surgery or you know anything
like conjoined twins could easily you
know be printed up so that they could
figure out how they're going to separate
you know any like a myriad of different
situations would be so much easier
amazing I mean I like it a lot Facebook
users are being told to steer clear of a
scam that capitalizes on CEO Mark
Zuckerberg recent announcement that a
disk-like dislike button is in the works
the dislike feature hasn't rolled out
just yet but scammers are said to be
taking advantage of the hoopla
surrounding the announcement by using
the news to help spread malware they
haven't there haven't been any
developments with respect to the
supposedly imminent feature since mr.
Zuckerberg mr. Zuckerberg said earlier
this month that Facebook's developers
were very close to making a dislike
button available to the site's one
billion users as the world waits however
account holders are being asked to avoid
clicking on posts that offer false
promises of early access to invite the
invite only feature researchers said the
only put the poster actually part of a
scam that collects sensitive info and
may be installing malware so it's coming
soon but do not download the dislike
feature yet goodness gracious
ok big news reports but Microsoft has
rolled its own Linux rolled out its own
Linux distribution have provoked the
kind of disbelief normally reserved for
curly-tailed livestock sprouting wings
but the reality is despite former CEO
Steve Ballmer famously describing Linux
as a cancer that Microsoft is more than
willing to accommodate the open-source
operating system when it can see a
benefit Azur cloud switch is a super
specialized verne version of linux
according to the Microsoft blogpost
announcing the product for a number of
years Microsoft was among the biggest
contributors to the Linux kernel and
today 1 in 5 of the running of the
operating systems running on Microsoft's
Azure cloud platform are Linux based in
part Microsoft's change of heart has
been driven by its customers as
developers and enterprises make an
increasing use of open source software
but beyond just Linux Microsoft seems to
be coming more willing to dabble with
open source in general the firm has open
sourced large parts of its dotnet
development framework faint framework
hitched Windows to the popular open
source container automation platform
docker and even hinted it might one day
lift the lid on the code that powers
Windows there are many practical reasons
a large vendor like Microsoft might seek
use and seek to use open source
technologies as outlined in a research
paper beware of geeks bearing gifts by
CSCS leading-edge forum
these can include removing barriers to
entry into an opponent's market
encouraging Standardization
around that vendors practices and
developing ecosystems that strengthen
their position so while it might be a
bit hard to swallow that the
proclamation by current Microsoft chief
Satya Nadella says that Microsoft loves
Linux the company certainly is willing
to exploit open source software when
useful Robbie it's it's a sad truth I
mean okay well Linux is huge and server
platforms so at least Microsoft is
making a recognition and saying okay
yeah it's great we're gonna adopt docker
and other open technologies and create
technologies based on open source that
we can use and it makes sense from a
business perspective because they have
to be able to keep their business
customers satisfied Microsoft has to
change their paradigm otherwise they're
going down it's plain and simple because
people realize now that Linux exists
there are alternatives out there there
are better alternatives out there and
that's why Microsoft is trying to push
the envelope but now they're bringing
open technologies into the fold and I
think it can be a collaborative effort
as long as people I mean canonical
really hit the nail on the head with
their business model which is hey let's
make the software free and let's just
charge for support let's just make it so
that this is not a software business so
much as a support business and they're
very good at support so Microsoft maybe
could take a similar transition and say
hey let's let's give away the software
which they've talked about maybe opening
up the Microsoft source of the Windows
source and and make it a service
business so it's an interesting time yes
x as x is the changin certainly remains
to be seen how this is going to develop
big thanks this week to dream really
dream weaver 909 and is it sir one since
I've seen y'all you know where what's
this Roy W Nash and our community of
yours for submitting stories to us if
you find a new story you'd like to send
email at to newsroom at category 5 TV
for all your tech news with a slight
lenox bias of
at the category 5 TV newsroom at
newsroom category 5 TV 4th category 5 TV
newsroom I'm Sasha dramatis thank you so
much Sasha this is category 5 technology
TV welcome to the show I'm Robbie
Ferguson I'm Hillary Rumble Hillary tell
them how they can get in touch there's
tons o AC in touch if you want to send
us a question please email it to live no
yes live at category 5 top TV sorry I
get confused with my emails
live at cat of so many cat 5 TV category
5 to live at category 5 TV and that's
our website that is our website you
you're unveiled a confusion that happens
in our community which is because we
have cat 5 dot TV yes we did it
category 5 TV so let's just let's just
recognize for a second category 5 dot TV
is our main network website so that
right now is category 5 technology TV
category 5 dot TV cat five dot TV is our
shortened URL for redirects so cat five
TV slash print for the printer right cat
five dot TV slash fly to be able to fly
drones right it's a redirect system so
it helps you out and we've got count 5
dot TV /pha a so that you can check out
a Raspberry Pi mini computer like Sasha
was building here on the show and I
wanted to show you something that we
have there now that is super cheap and
super cool what it is is an HDMI digital
cable that converts HDMI over to DVI so
now your Raspberry Pi that you get
through our shop at Kattegat v TV /pi
you've got the ability to plug it into a
DVI digital monitor so you can use it
just like a computer how cool is that is
pretty cool I think the next step is
really just a VESA mount so that you can
mount it on the back of the screen and
then that's it's really cool but you can
pick that up at camp five dot TV slash
PI and as Hillary was saying if you have
any question
for us email us live at category 5 dot
TV we love getting your questions and we
do our best to to attend to as many per
episode as we can and viewer question
time is brought to you by those who
support us on patreon if you haven't
already done so check it out category a
bit now you got me go sorry patreon.com
slash category 5 and on with your
questions if we could get started yeah
that would be great
alright first question of the evening
coming to us from WM B from Pittsburgh
Pennsylvania hey guys why don't you
think giving an update on the show show
program that you've we've been referring
to in previous episodes has it started
as a specific URL anymore intro on that
would be great
yeah if you head on over to the show
show dot TV love to have you subscribe
to our YouTube channel that helps us out
become part of it get your comments on
to our YouTube channel I like the video
say hey hey and that's a really great
way to to support us just by going there
and subscribing so the show show dot TV
thanks in case you don't know what the
show show is that is if you're
interested in broadcasting I don't care
if you want to do a webcast like this or
if you want to broadcast your own videos
on the web if you want to stream your
church services live on a Sunday morning
whatever it is you want to do the show
show is here for you to help you to use
the smarts that I've gathered and
accumulated over the years of doing
broadcasting since I started when I was
14 years old and I'm much older than
that now and and use that information
and in order to save money and and
actually make it happen so we've got
some amazing suggestions we've got some
really neat ways to to do broadcast
broadcasting through the web and that's
all done through the show show dot t
it's very good at long sounds good to me
thanks for your question sparkly balls
wants to also note that the show show is
also on our Kodi plug-in which reminds
me of course it's also available on roku
so if you have the category-five TV
network channel installed and of course
it's there and and growing on to other
platforms as well
so Cody cat it's github.com slash cat 5
TV who have that plug-in that's worse
we're just in the roku channel store so
you can just add us to roku terrific
mmm-hmm awesome okay another question
coming atcha from sean from florida hey
Sean
Robby did you do a how to video on
hacking in the d5 5100 for HDMI
streaming I can't seem to find the video
that you had reference in your first
backstage pass video that you did I
guess you did a shoot after hacking it
so I don't know if you remember that
specific episode but if people want to
look up episodes yeah in the past that's
pretty easy to do with with this of
course hacking the d50 100
I did do a little series of Linux tech
show calm you can just do a search for
d50 100 it's a Nikon camera hello what
do you think that camera over there huh
looks good from here look to you guys I
don't know zoom in like give us an
extreme low so it's pretty not of me of
me cuz I just have no pride that's
pretty good shot I like that's a hacked
d50 100 so that is a cheap way to do
good video and that is something that is
demonstrated at Linux textual comm to
some degree but also through our
partners a mage well and through the
show show TV and as well our friends
over at Nikon hacker we're putting
together a series at the show show dot
TV that is going to show you everything
you need to know about hacking addy 51
why would you want to do that cheap
fantastic quality that's amazing it's
HDMI output it's we've got live view
clean output but only because it's
hacked of course if you buy one it's
gonna have all this stuff on the screen
yeah yeah and and then we use it going
into a mage well card to do live capture
we do mage well instead of black magic
because mage well allows you to fix the
proportions because of course addi 5100
is not set up for live view output so
it's not true it's not perfect 1080 like
it's not 1920 by 1080 it's something
like 2000 by 1090 something whatever it
is so the mage well card lets us fix the
proportions and the the actual you know
the stretching of the video and the
cropping of the video whereas the black
magic card would just what you see is
what you get and it's gonna look it's
gonna really add 10 pounds so that's the
show show TV as well that's one of the
things that we're going to be showing
there which is exciting that will work
really well for a church we just have
like a 200 is that a 200 millimeter on
there I think 200 mil perfect it's a 1.5
crop factor so we actually got 300
millimetres of zoom one or two hundred
mil lens so if that doesn't make sense
to you hey tune into the show show it
will all make sense
thank you for your question
can I just say rev don wants to know how
much does one of the major well cards
capture cards run it really depends on
what you want to do and we're gonna have
all that information for you on the show
show it varies because there it depends
on where you are in the world which card
you're looking at the card that we use
is the 4k HDMI input it has dual inputs
and then we're also gonna be looking at
1080p the new Pro card which has the
four HDMI inputs at 1080p so you've got
2 by 2 both 2k input so you have four
1080p inputs so it really depends
they've got some great stuff over there
thank you ok
this is actually a comment from Bo
Diddley hey Bo Diddley in response to
last week's episode
4:17 about a viewer had a question about
printing just using the black ink in
Linux yeah
so both the live I why can't I talk Bo
diddly I posted the information on
YouTube
cool do you want me to read it sure yeah
so for your Canon printers on Linux for
Canon printers okay step one clone your
installed printer and name the clone
printer name B&amp;W black and white okay
number two oh no I see where he's going
with this okay right click on it select
properties jot down job options and
scroll down to the bottom third step in
the text box type what does this say I
can't even read this grayscale in
grayscale something cien grayscale oh
yeah then click Add button and then
lastly once it's added another text box
will appear and above that you'll enter
true and then click apply so when you go
to print then you'll select the black
and white printer all right that's cool
so he found these instructions just by
googling canon grayscale linux cool so
that's that's a neat way to do it you
could make a copy of the printer set one
of the printers to be in grayscale and
then you can just choose which printer
you want to print to it's the same
printer but one is grayscale one so it
treats it makes you think you're
selecting a different turn now with the
Epson printer now I've just opened up a
document here which we just installed
tonight I can go file print and I can go
through the properties and you noticed
there that we actually had the grayscale
option so see I could do that on a per
print basis but what I do like about
your solution is I could make a
duplicate of my Epson printer the driver
change it to grayscale save it and then
I never have to manually go in and
change it or forget that I had it set to
gray and then accidentally print
something and waste paper that is clever
but I do like being able to show you
because in lieu of last week's or in
response to last week's questions yeah
that here we are on linux with the epson
printer and there there it is in the
driver to select grayscale mode which
that's that's cool and we appreciate the
comment there from you as well thanks
for sending it in that's great we love
it we have time to say a minute go for
it do it I don't I don't know Robby
you're putting me under pressure here do
you think sorceress okay hold on this is
a nice compliment Sasha says go for it
hello Robbie Sasha and Friends I love
Abu to mate for Raspberry Pi my question
is how to get I can't read this GPO pns
working the the GPIO pins GPIO pins huh
I've tried I can't read I've tried to
install Python pip it and install our P
idot GPO with no success is there any
way to get the pins work in it's pushing
me back what's the package that he tried
to install obviously RPI GPIO that's
that's the the actual Python code to run
it but what version of Python this a
Python - pip oh maybe that's it you try
to install Python - pip do Python 3 -
pip try that and then do an apt-get
update and possibly an apt-get upgrade
and then install again to make sure
everything's up to date and that's
Python 3 - pip and then using Python
install RPI dot GPIO so once you have
Python installed then you would type
sudo pip3 3 space install slash and then
case-sensitive
RPI so capital RP lowercase I dot all
caps GPIO I think that'll do it for you
but make sure you get python running
first and then run that command let us
know ok love to hear if it
and that's cool well you did it you
stole my man you squeezed in that go
Robbie
ended the season with a viewer question
writing like that that is it for season
eight can you believe so we're gonna
take a small like a small break in
between oh yeah yeah like we always do
like no we're back next week with season
9 whoa six days away that's a small
little vacation that's it that's during
that break we're building you a new
virtual studio we're doing graphics for
the intro we're doing new stinger
graphics we're do it everything and also
next week we've got a new co-host
starting as well so don't miss it it's
been a fun season gang and thanks for
being here thanks for supporting us this
year it's been an exciting and even
scary time in a way because of the fact
that here we are we're paying rent we're
doing something that we've never done
before and we're growing and with more
viewers means more cost and we
appreciate everybody who's been pitching
in and even if it's supporting us
through buying through our partner links
that makes a huge difference and we
appreciate it each and every one of you
and thanks even just for watching
because the viewers are you know what
it's all about sharing in a part of our
community for sure that's it for the
season folks thanks guys security there
we hope you enjoyed the show category 5
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every Tuesday at 7 p.m. Eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category-five
TV and find out when you can watch live
and interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
Creative Commons Attribution 2.5 Canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
