hi and welcome back to another episode
of new every day I'm Kerri and my name
is Jen and on today's show we're going
to talk about just another ordinary day
just another ordinary day
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat five dot TV / Linda so glad
that you've tuned in and we're looking
forward to this episode Jen are you
talking about what are we talking about
and it's interesting because sometimes
you're like what should we be talking
about on the show and occasionally we're
like no today's Jen's like yeah let's
just do that you know we tell people
they shouldn't read the Bible like that
just to open it up and put their finger
down be like what are you saying to me
Lord yeah that's a no-no but sometimes
it works sometimes they're all the time
but sometimes it works I'm on my way
back from Winnipeg we're totally off
topic now but this is okkk really um
well I'm with my way back from Winnipeg
on the plane I'm just really struggling
with something and I was like Lord I
really would like it if you would verse
bomb me right now like just give me a
verse and he the impression I got was
Jeremiah 17 9 and so I'm like okay
whatever so I turned to Jeremiah 17 now
this is not I have a travel Bible which
is much smaller and fits into my bag
which comes in very handy but Jeremiah
17 9 says more than anything the heart
is deceitful above all else and cannot
be healed who can understand it and I
was like Lord are you saying
that I am not seeing clearly or I'm
deceiving myself or do I need to be
aware of where other people might be
deceived and I really really meditated
on that verse because it felt like it
fit the situation and as I read around
and this is what is so key when you feel
that you have been verse bombed or where
you do just do the random open thing
that you read the context around it and
the the passage and the Lord had given
me this passage before when I was really
struggling with fear and I actually have
the date are written beside of August
2010 and I remember specifically that I
had been struggling with fear in August
2010 and the Lord sent me to this this
verse which says this is what the Lord
says a curse is placed on those who
trust other people and who depend on
humans for strength who have stopped
trusting the Lord they're like a bush in
a desert that grows in a land that no
one lives in a hot and dry land that hat
with bad soil they don't know what the
good thing about the good things God can
give but the person who trusts in the
Lord will be blessed the Lord will show
him that he can be trusted he will be
strong like a tree planted near water
that sense its roots by a stream it is
not afraid when the days are hot it its
leaves are always green it does not
worry in a year that with no rain sorry
I get excited like it does not worry in
a year when no rain comes it always
produces fruit more than anything the
heart is deceitful above all else and
cannot be healed who can understand it
but I the Lord looks in a person's heart
and test the mind so I can decide what
each person deserves and as I was
reading this I realized in that moment
that what I was struggling with was the
fact that I was not surrendering all of
my thoughts all of my fears all my
insecurities to the Lord to discern and
it's like that's why it says but I the
LORD look into the person's hearts and
he can take what was going on in
inside and he can sort it out and so I
have found myself since I've come back
from camp so many so many times just
saying Lord am I being deceived am I
deceiving myself because so often we
deceive ourselves we think that
something is okay or fear comes in to
deceive and causes us to make decisions
we make decisions based out of fear
rather than truth and it's like and
that's a good question am I deceiving
myself just this morning we are talking
about different situations going on in
our lives right now where you know
people were offended and then we thought
well you shouldn't they shouldn't be
offended but you know am I deceiving
myself and not really seeing the
situation as it is right you know like a
friend of mine at work I ended up doing
a job for her at work and she was
offended that I went ahead and did it
and in my mind I was like whoa how can
she be offended that that's ridiculous
but you know I'll apologize anyway and
all right but they got it am am I being
blinded to what was going on like did I
actually over set the boundaries but
it's the Lord who can turn our eyes away
from what's not impressed on to maybe
some pride and see and that's just it
what you said it's like in our minds we
can think what am I not dot dot but I
was only trying to help whatever and I
love what you said but it's the Lord who
then takes what we did and examines it
and like you said is there a sense of
you know pride in there um you know wow
I was only doing right the right thing
or I thought I was helping and it's like
are we willing then to allow the lord
and i think this is so often our issue
is we don't actually invite the Lord
into the situation to examine our heart
to examine our motives because we might
think I am in the right and I have done
that so many times this is the right
thing to do I know it's the right thing
and yet as soon as I surrender it to the
Lord he's like well acts
you responded out of fear like an
example would be okay I work with the
the kids at georgian college with the
christian group and um and to be honest
i just feel so ill-equipped to be there
and I'm like I don't really know what to
talk about or what if you know this
whole idea of acceptance and belonging
are they going to accept me so I'm like
well if I only put in this much money
into the the meter for parking then I'll
have to leave and I'll have a reason to
leave so I won't have to worry about you
know I think conversations are being
awkward I'll just be like oh look and
like I meters them and this is the car I
played I played the integrity card well
you know it's really important to be
lying right I one line I have to go but
also while you only put in this much
money for them parking meter like it's
not fair that you take advantage sayin
well they're not going to catch me you
paid for an hour and a half then you
should be there for an hour and a half
if you're going to be longer don't put
in an hour and a half and just think
well they're not going to catch me right
cuz I'll stay longer they're not going
to catch me well that's in my mind
that's bad integrity so if you're going
to be there for two hours you pay for
two hours so in my mind I'm like see
aren't I being responsible and the Lord
challenged me on it last night he's like
the only reason that you put in that
much money was so that you could leave
so you can see what i could do in those
relationships I was like I like Lord but
see this is where our heart is deceitful
above all else we can justify I even
played the integrity card it is right
not to pay for um not to take advantage
of the fact that the parking meter guy
yeah that you didn't get caught that is
bad integrity but on the other hand I
was using it actually to cover my fear
and the motivation behind it was to bail
yeah and I'm like nuts but yay God that
he told you I know and that's where we
can celebrate like when when God and His
grace shows us something that's happened
in our lives or we've stumbled or
thought the wrong thought or had the
wrong motivation and we celebrate the
work of always spirit
your life yeah like yay God he's
sanctifying you and now you're going to
be expected of what God is going to do
I'm gonna bring the three dollars to pay
for the two hours of parking rather than
the hour and a half but and this is
where like I said verse bomb whoo and I
open it I'm like okay and I'm reading it
I'm like okay this I'm end the Lord's
working on me right this whole Jeremiah
17-9 thing the heart is deceitful above
all else and like this was an example of
it last night cool thing is cool thing
is Carrie world prayer meeting at our
church we have a 24 hour prayer vigil
yes and I fear once again I feel like we
talked about fear a lot I have issues
anyways I said to pasture Velma who I
work with I said Velma should I like
open it up to the people to share what
God has been saying to them over the
last 24 hours so this was like the big
prayer meeting after 24 hours of prayer
and fasting and she's like sure I was
like okay she's like what's your problem
I'm like what's wrong she's good at
calling me on things I loved Alma I feel
like she's one of the people got his
place in my life and so are you they say
Jen why are you thinking that way
because it goes back to the heart is
deceitful above all else who who
containment who can know it but God and
God puts people in our lives to actually
challenge the way that we think so we
can surrender it to him so I'm like I'm
actually if you're afraid of what people
are going to say and she's like the mere
fact that you are afraid is from the
enemy so that tells me that something
good is going to come out of this and so
I'm like okay so I go and I tell the
people what the plan is we're going to
sing and then we'll open it up for them
to share and one of the wonderful ladies
in our church stands or says you know
what the Lord impressed this on me and I
I don't know where it's found but I just
found that the Lord really spoke to me
through this passage and she's like it's
just you know a screenshot and she
started reading the screenshot and it
was Jeremiah
19 5 on and I and she just read the
passage and then she ended it verse 8
and then I read verse 9 and I was like
oh Lord you're good you're good and
she's shared I I believe the Lord is
saying to us that we can't be trusting
in other people we need to be trusting
in him like our success will come from
trusting in him alone which goes into
verse 9 that says that we can believe
right we can believe we can be deceived
thinking it's about us it's not about
God and the Lord convicted me so many
times and and and since I've come back
that verse comes up am I be deceived am
I deceiving myself like the whole
integrity thing okay I'm putting in my
two dollars rather than three right and
in my head I'm thinking or no I'm being
good no the Lord totally cut me to the
quick and said you stop that and you let
me move and so I was so challenged by
just another ordinary day here I was
sitting on the plane coming back from
Winnipeg and I just really struggling
and we struggle every day right and I'm
like verse bomb me Lord and he did and I
was like and it has challenged me almost
on a regular basis for the last two or
three weeks to say why are you making
that decision is it from you or is it
from man or is it from me and we want to
encourage you today to not look at every
day and this is why we sort of named the
next few sessions it's just an ordinary
day I had no idea that day that when I
opened up the Bible that what the Lord
was going to say to me would radically
change the way I was living and just an
ordinary day there's an ordinary day
here i am on the plane and it's becoming
ordinary for me to be on a plane i must
admit um but here i said okay lord i
need you and he totally came and so over
the next few weeks we're going to talk
about
just ordinary days where we're going
about what the Lord has called us to do
and then he just whoop comes in and all
of a sudden doesn't seem like such an
ordinary day anymore because that when I
got on the plane I had no idea i just
thought dear Lord God please don't put
me beside people who are chatty Cathy's
when Kerri and I traveled together she
sits in the middle so she can talk to
the person on the other side funny um
but and the thing is the two ladies that
got on they put their earphones on and
it was an overnight yes yeah then I
couldn't I think I slept for an half a
half an hour because the Lord wanted to
say something to me and it was it was
just an ordinary day and yet when we
when we opened our days up to walk in
obedience the Lord totally comes in and
not every day do I have a life changing
moment but some days I do and so over
about just an ordinary day of how in the
lives of some of the men and the women
men and women of the bible it was just
an ordinary day for them and just
walking in obedience doing whatever God
had asked them to do and God radically
use their obedience and did amazing
things that affect either one or two
people or millions of people so that's
what we're going to do for the next few
weeks yeah because there's there's a
ripple effect from when got when you see
God's grace in your life and then you
act in obedience on it yeah then other
people are affected right so you were
able to share with the people who were
at that prayer meeting Oh ahead of time
you know I feel like God showed me this
and you have to share and encourage them
and I just think that's so cool yeah so
be prepared for just to be about your
ordinary business and God for forgot to
come in and just radically use your
obedience to transform the lives of so
many people yeah so and then there's
times gen where I I feel like man I
haven't had it all together I have you
know maybe haven't been obedient maybe
my
it's having beyond been on the right
track but then the grace of God comes
yeah and he still speaks to me yeah like
yay I agree because he loves me and he
loves you and he wants to speak to you
and he wants to change your life amen ok
here's another ordinary day situation
yes I was at work and I was placed in
the one of the areas of emergency where
there's lots of people struggling with
mental health issues and we had Carmen
come on and talk about mental health a
couple weeks ago if you didn't see that
go back and watch it I think it's
episode 20 and 21 ok I think so um just
excellent and that was an answer to
prayer anyways whenever I go in this
area i'm just like it just feels heavy I
feel heavy and that's why mind telling
me that this is going to be an ordinary
day a little bit of chaos and probably a
lot of a lot of depression a lot of
anxiety a lot of people you know wanting
to harm themselves harm others it's just
it's not my favorite place right so I
was thinking that was going to be that
kind of ordinary day and I'm like no
that's the wrong attitude if the Lord
lives in me Jesus says I am the light of
the world and he now lives in me for the
Holy Spirit yes I am now his light in
the world so it's guaranteed not to be
an ordinary day if you go into an area
that feels dark it shouldn't be dark
because you're bringing the light and
you're bringing the life of Christ and
so I had to stop actually know what I
didn't even stop that day and think
about this has kept kept on going here's
the grace of God he stopped me and
reminded me that he's at work I had this
I had a patient who she was struggling
with depression and she had tried to
overdose on a bunch of medication and
this was a couple days after the
overdose so she was medically stable and
just there for psychiatric issues at
that point right quite anxious
and um I said she really wanted to go
home I said well in order for us to let
you go home we need to know that you're
safe and that you have coping strategies
in place that don't involve harming
yourself right she says yeah I
understand that I said well you know
what what are you willing to investigate
you do practice circ with a certain
faith or whatever and she said you know
I want to talk to a counselor and so I
recommended focus on the family because
they offer free counseling so if you go
to the focus on the family website um
you could talk to a counselor for free
it's great anyways so she was very
appreciative that she said yeah you know
I'm a Christian and she said I'm awfully
embarrassed that I'm here because you
know the nature of my situation I tried
to take my life you know it's not very
Christian thing to do I know that and
just been in a bad way and I was like
you know what God still loves you yeah
says I said he sees you the same today
as he did last year as he will next year
I said in today is a new day is the
first step towards getting better and he
was to help because he loves you and it
was like I was like preaching to myself
and my own right but I was like all
sudden this opportunity presented and we
could we got to pray together and I was
encouraged by her and it was like
totally ordinary day and then ma'am he
just opened this door to do that just an
ordinary did or the ordinary day and as
she was leaving she was like you know
thank you you know I'm really encouraged
it was like me too I'm encouraged so it
was awesome I don't know where you're at
in today whether you're just like yeah
this is ordinary or this is worse than
ordinary but we're going to pray and
we're just going to offer our days to
the Lord and just say okay lord help me
to walk in obedience with you today and
help me not to see this as just an
ordinary day but a day with full of
potential miracles for you to come and
move one of my favorite verses says in
the morning I lay by request before you
Lord and I wait
expectation when you get up in the
morning just pray Lord I'm giving you
these requests I don't know how to deal
with my boss I don't know how to deal
with my spouse I don't know what that's
going to do but I wait an expectation
because you're big enough to handle it
hey man let's pray okay Lord you are big
enough to handle it you are big enough
to handle it you are big enough to
handle it Lord forgive us for allowing
ourselves just to just another ordinary
day and not inviting you into it lord
help us to see the potential of miracles
help us to wake up and say this is the
day that you have made we will rejoice
and be glad in it so Father forgive us
where we do not surrender it to you and
believe that you really are big enough
to handle it help us to turn our
everyday are every moment over to you
forgive us for deceiving ourselves or
for allowing us for being deceived that
you are small you are a big God thank
you for that truth today be with our
viewers Lord encourage them may they
feel your peace and may they believe
that you are a big God we pray this in
the name of Jesus through the power of
the Holy Spirit amen amen well we just
want to thank our partners who have
helped make this show possible one of
those partners being designed a t-shirt
so if you go to our website you everyday
TV you can click on our partners page
and find design a t-shirt and you can
custom design t-shirts I went on the
site looks pretty cool pretty
straightforward and easy to use so if
you're interested in that go to our
website new everyday TV click our
partners page and then you can go have a
look at the the links from there also
you can make purchases through amazon by
going to our website and then part of
the money that goes towards your
purchase actually helps to support our
show if you go through our web page
sounds like plan and there's a great
book that i just read called the case
for grace by lee strobel and it talks
about people's ordinary days and they
were radically changed by God and His
grace and so you can find that on on
Amazon if you go through our website new
LED TV alright so that's it that's it
that's all I hope you have a great week
and we'll see you back here for the next
episode of new every day later
you
