welcome to category five technology TV
it's episode number 540 so nice to see
you again this week and tonight we're
gonna be tackling a couple of pretty
in-depth viewer questions things like
how could we communicate
by a host name as opposed to IP address
with a within a Zen server virtual
network we're also going to be answering
a question about that 1080p video player
that we were looking at last week and
that's going to be of interest to you as
well stick around for that and we're
gonna learn about a book that I don't
know the name of
yes stick around we'll be right back
this is category 5 technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show time to visit category 5 TV
category 5 dot TV is a member of the
tech podcast network if it's Tecates
here cat5 TV slash TPN and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat5 dot TV slash IA ib and
welcome to the show this is episode
number 540 of category 5 technology TV
so nice to have you here and we've got
more of your viewer questions tonight
that we're going to tackle now last week
was our first in a while viewer question
of extravaganza right and we actually
didn't get through the entire mailbag
nor do we when we do a viewer question
extravaganza because we love the
question really great questions I feel
like every question could be its own
standalone oh absolutely absolutely so
tonight we're gonna help out some of you
who sent in your questions both before
last week's episode and since that time
we're gonna see what we can do to help
you out and we've got a new set tonight
as you can see this is kind of cool it's
very comfortable and it's alright you
can handle the show for us Asha I'm just
gonna I'm just gonna sit back and relax
and so now for the next hour we'll be
talking about everything I've watched on
TV there you go all the delightful meals
that you can make with your pressure
cooker it's great actually I didn't need
to trigger that okay head on over to
torrent dot category-five dot TV i
mentioned it a couple of weeks ago but
it is so great to see that so many
people are downloading and seeding we
can see that there is somebody
downloading right there three different
seasons of category 5 TV and we've got
some seeds which means people are able
to download category 5 technology TV
torrents bit torrents
very very very quickly so you can get
entire seasons of category 5 shows
absolutely free and you can download
those using BitTorrent its torrent dot
category 5 dot TV just a kudos and a
hello and a thank you to those who are
seeding that's right if you're seeding
you're part of the solution yeah exactly
it's such a cool mechanism for us
because we offer this show for free and
we want people to be able to get their
hands on it and one of the ways to do
that is through BitTorrent it
decentralizes the hosting so that all
the people who are seeds we use the word
seeds those are the people who have
downloaded the entire thing and are then
sharing it from their computers so those
seeds could be anywhere in the world so
wherever you are your computer's going
to connect to the seeds that are closest
to you and that are going to give you
the best speed and then download chunks
of that data until you've got the entire
season I love it
I still don't completely get it let's
just put it this way there are hundreds
of hours of free broadcast video that
are available to you to download and
watch at your leisure on your own plex
server you can put them on your media
player and you can sync them to your to
your devices and be able to watch them
without an internet connection I think
it's a great opportunity to for people
who have limited bandwidth right if you
want to share the show and you know you
know your friend who would absolutely
love category 5 or new every day
they may they may not have the kind of
internet connection that you or I have
so you can download it through the
torrents and put it on an external hard
drive and ship it to them a flash drive
or something like that so many cool
opportunities to share category 5 TV can
you believe I don't I can't be sure yet
and maybe chatroom you can help me
decide I can't be sure if I need to be
proud of this or how to approach this
but by robbie ferguson host of category
5 technology TV yes
tech bloggers yeah guru of sorts of
sorts broadcaster webcaster that's right
DIY dork and all-around great guy I like
to think so what I am the number one
bald nerd in the world number one number
one bald nerd second to nod this came
about this came about as a bit of a joke
because I was providing support for
someone and and I kind of humorously
said I'm pretty sure you could find me
if you did a Google search for bald nerd
uh-huh I was like I wonder if and I
tried it and so chatroom head on over to
Google and just do a quick Google search
for bald nerd Wow there you are seven
hundred and nineteen thousand results
here in Canada and the very first
picture I did a search for bald nerd and
the very first picture that came up on
Google is me that's awesome that is
really great should I be proud of this
mom you'll never believe I made the
first page of Google get on your
computer do a quick search for bald and
nerd in order to pull my picture up you
actually asked you Google search my name
I don't have like a and newly-married I
guess it's it's more difficult at this
point I wonder can you pull up
saturation and see what should we see
what happens if we do a search for sash
Rickman hisashige er made us work just
fine
well I you show up in a search for
Sascha Rickman well it's just spin and
sash oh it doesn't know what to do I'll
tell ya
[Laughter]
I am I was watching a you two tonight
YouTube Netflix show and it was like a
really random one it was called rotten
it's like a it's about all different
food industries not a huge big deal to
the story but in one episode it's about
the cod fisheries and they pan out and
there's these boats and one of them is
called the Sasha Lee
oh yeah which is a huge big deal for me
because I've never what's your middle
name my first name is hyphenated Oh your
first name is actually sadly actually is
because when I introduced myself when I
was younger as like hi my name is Ashley
everybody always thought my name was
Ashley oh so I dropped it because I was
done explaining that my name isn't
Ashley it which is funny I now work
within Ashley my name is not Ashley it's
Asha Lee
now it's just Sasha and there's a boat
named after you and there's a boat great
Ashley boat okay I'm curious you know to
get on to Google and do a search for for
bald nerd and see it's interesting
Google's cool because it's geo-located
so I sometimes wonder is it because I'm
in Barry and I'm searching in Barry and
a geo locates it's like when you do a
search for pizza right it doesn't give
you results for Boston or Italy oh it
gives you results for the local pizza
Ria's right right so wherever you are do
a search for balda nerd and tell us
where where I come up probably number
one I hope so
I hope so all right we've got to take a
very very quick break when we come back
we've got more of your viewer questions
that you've sent in if you haven't got
yours in yet head on over to our website
it's category-five dot TV and from there
you'll be able to send it by clicking on
contact us don't go anywhere we'll be
back with your questions after this
Jeff Weston Jemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what are you you're terrible
actor
what this where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay
are you building a really cool website
just because Jeff is confused doesn't
mean you have to be visit cap five dot
TV slash DreamHost to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash DreamHost ladies
and gentlemen welcome back sash is
excited because we just did a search for
Sasha Rickman and guess who came up but
Sasha Rickman I'm the number one a sure
she is the number one Sasha Rickman so
if you do a search and and Google's
actin finicky for us it's probably our
internet here you came up number one way
to go apparently bp9 says the bald nerd
is number one on DuckDuckGo so I'm
pleased about that that's from the USA
sasha Rickman is numbers one through six
says Al Peck who's joining us in the
chatroom here good golly yes to tell you
the truth okay so when my name was derp
made us which wasn't that long ago I
never met another germ ATIS that I was
not related to if I alright so I knew
them all okay here I have met so many
Rickman's
it's more popular than evidently I
didn't even realize but it's a really
popular game like Rickman's that don't
know Dave because if so it says her name
is you know whatever mrs. Rickman oh my
god you know Dave no yeah I did I did
you did Mary yeah I changed her name to
Ferguson but so it worked out it worked
out okay well back to more viewer
questions submit your questions we are
our website category five dot TV Sasha I
want to kind of pretext the first one
that we have because last week old salt
actually submitted a question about his
laptop right and I was like okay well
the one thing that we knew is that old
salt had put new RAM or more RAM in his
laptop I think you know run a mem test
that was my suggestion get in there and
the and what happened is this well c128
Dee was watching live right and
commented during the live show now of
course because it was live now that
comment is in the abyss of the internet
because it's not available on the
on-demand video but I was able to
capture it I was able to grab it and
copy and paste because see 128 D old
salt heads-up
seems to know a fair bit more about that
specific model of laptop than I
personally do I was looking at it with
more of a generic view so looking at
that Ashley would you like to read C 128
DS comment and if you get hung up on any
tech specs then just throw it over to me
just be like Robby what's that
what is that 5400 rpm what the that's
actually coming up yeah it is all right
take it away regarding old salts Acer
Aspire
e 15 laptop this model is geared towards
long battery life not performance it's a
dual core four thread CPU and yes it
does have hyper threading and
virtualization but not turbo boost hmm
okay so it also comes with a very slow
5400 rpm spinning hard drive the reviews
I've seen on this particular laptop is
that it doesn't perform well and it is
slow to boot up to slow to open files
and even slower to transfer coffee files
one reviewer mentioned
that it would sometimes take seconds
before a key press registered the idea
that it should be pretty fast is not
true at all based on what he had stated
and what I've read on these laptops I
believe that an SSD would have been a
better upgrade than the additional Ram I
think I seriously doubt that it is the
RAM as even the slowest ddr4 so-dimms
would be close to the speed limit of the
UEFI of that laptop I don't understand
that the the BIOS has a feature called
UEFI which is like part of the way that
it interacts with the hardware the
operating system and so on
oh I'm not familiar with the
specifications specifically of this
laptop obviously C 128 D knows more
about this specific one so old salt
listen up okay because he seems to know
what he's talking about as far as is
this mean test mem test that's the one I
recommended last week because anytime
I've had trouble with RAM yes run a mem
test and it will tell you if that's the
problem that's right and so I still I
still hold to that I still think that's
a good thing to try because of the fact
that you did upgrade the RAM I think
it's a good idea to run a mem test and
just make sure not so much that it's
because C 128 DS approach is like well
it's it's gonna meet it's gonna work
with it but what if it's defective right
right so not not necessarily will it
work with that laptop if it has this
specification but what if the RAM that
was put in there is defective in that
case a mem test would reveal that right
and if not I mean he doubts that it's
going to help as he states the problem
he has is with Linux although he doesn't
specifically state so I'm betting that
he isn't able to even boot Linux so mum
tested out the UEFI is locked down to
some extent so you might need to set a
supervisor password in the eve UEFI in
order to to be able to change to legacy
mode to boot into most Linux distros if
I'm not mistaken
early UEFI versions won't work with
Linux so you might want to update to the
latest version and
mm test and other Linux distros no he
might need to change with the touchpad
settings from advanced to basic mode
okay and we didn't counter that with
your remember when we did the gaming PC
we had to make some changes to set
legacy mode in the UEFI in the BIOS yes
and I had some trouble with a particular
system that I was working with and I
couldn't get Debian to install because
of compatibility with the UEFI but who
boomed to worked and worked great so
maybe looking at a couple of different
distros trying some different distros
maybe the answer if if as c128 he is
hinting to maybe it's just not
compatible with that version of the UEFI
right and maybe you've bitten off more
than you expected with this particularly
I can't imagine like the one thing that
really stands out to me in this is how
slow it is as far as like registering
keys that's that's that would drive me
absolutely bananas because even when I'm
Sam typing an email and my computer's
just a little bit laggy and so you know
you type and then the whole word pops up
after we're sure I can't handle it and
as you know I'm a slow typist so can you
imagine it would be insane just be whole
paragraph yeah yeah I already get
frustrated with computers that can't
keep up but imagine that you'd be like
that sloth in Zootopia have you seen
that movie yes I love that character I
love that character incidentally just
not to not to sidetrack but it is
important to our community Mikey Mike
20:18 is in Florida and says I come up
number one as bald nerd in Florida we're
not searching for Robby Ferguson no bald
nerd and Robby Ferguson appears that's a
pretty woman my wife is gonna think of
that so if she misses bald nerd probably
I'm married to the bald nerd bp9 says
this is for orange orange man
or pardon me old salt starts with an O
I'm having one of those moments
hello orange man if you're watching and
hello old salt also bp9 directs this
comment and says i had to turn off
secure boot in order to install Xubuntu
on a new six cordell desktop so maybe
that's another option get into that BIOS
and make some changes to the settings
and see what you can come up with
remember last week we looked back at the
AGP Tech 1080p video player yes that was
a cool little device you can find more
about it at cat5 dot TV slash AGP Tek
and what's cool about it is it's a
standalone player that you can just plug
into a TV and plug in a USB flash drive
and it plays the video for you at 1080p
so you could download all of cat5 yeah
yeah yep and then put it on a flash
drive and play it
our videos are 1080p h.264 so it would
play absolutely smashingly and I
actually incidentally demonstrated that
last week without even planning to but
that file was just to download off of
our website just so it plays perfectly
yeah you could do that C style DJ
responded to our response of the feature
right with thanks so much for the video
this seems like a pretty cool device I'm
looking for a standalone SD card audio
player to connect to my hi-fi system
that I'm building in order to play high
resolution and high bitrate audio I
really don't need the video portion of
it since it's going to be connected to
just stereo equipment for music
listening would this be a good option or
is there something else out there that
might be a little more high-end but not
too expensive that simply plays SD cards
and has audio output hmm so this is a
video player it is built for video
playback and because of that the audio
portion of it goes out through the HDMI
right so you need a TV or some
kind of decoder in order to access the
audio from that device Sasha can you
think of a possible I'm just putting
this out there can you think of a
possible better solution for music
playback that uses a small device and is
able to be plugged into a PA system or a
stereo system I would personally use
your Raspberry Pi is that what good
answer
I would download volu mio and and put
that on cuz that's the only thing I
would know to put on a Raspberry Pi to
play music I am so proud of her right
now we're going back to episode numbers
415 and 416 and for 25 check out our
website category 5 dot TV do a quick
search for volumio and it's spelt vol um
io and you'll see raspberry pi music
server part 2 and part 3
not sure why part 1 isn't there but you
can surely find it it must be 415
because this is episode 416 so with that
we in fact created from a Raspberry Pi a
nice little media player yeah and how's
that been serving you swimmingly yeah
it's amazing
we had the SD card die that happened but
it just just happened so how long how
many years did that last
well that was 2015 that we built it
right so 2 years with a little Sony SD
card now I put a Kingston SD card in oh
yeah we can expect that it will be there
after the the dawn of man camping
mankind and for somebody from me I am
neither bald nor a nerd it's very
intuitive I can use it with ease so how
do you how do you manage the music
playlists like how do you control the
music like do you do you have to go to
the Raspberry Pi and connect a TV to it
and a keyboard and mouse no it just pops
ah you did that Ravi I don't know
actually I'm a I I made a link on your
desktop to the IP address but it is just
your web browser it loads it up in
Chrome yeah okay yeah and it I just
press that hot key button on my keyboard
in it so see style DJ really want to
pull you toward volumio dot-org and it
is a fantastic distro for Raspberry Pi
and you can upgrade your pi to have
lossless audio if you want and it's
compatible you can do all that kind of
stuff but with a PI - let alone a PI 3
it works smashingly well it loads up
your media library this is their website
volumio org it's a free application
download it install it on a PI there's
what it looks like on a computer versus
a phone versus a tablet it's mobile
responsive it gives you access to your
playlists it lets you set everything up
they've got hardware they're fantastic
volumio is absolutely exceptional yeah
so as a media player I love it I've no
complaints
through the holiday season we flip to
Christmas music I don't flip the
playlist after after we would be go to
our regular rotation playlist yeah yeah
they're just basically playlists that
you drag and drop music into so you can
have the music stored on an external
hard drive you can have it stored on an
ass you can have it stored on a server
and connect it through CIFS you can have
it I don't even they it's continued to
grow since we did this back in in 2015 I
wouldn't be surprised if it has access
to to things like Spotify and yeah it
does
airplay spotify web radio UPnP and DLNA
plus it has mp3 and FLAC playback WAV
AAC a lack and DSD and much more it says
so can't go wrong check out volumio dot
org c style DJ and let us know what you
think and get your pi head on over to
cat 5
TV /pi and you'll be able to order that
raspberry-pi unit through us and that's
a way you can support us for helping
direct you to the right thing and and
and for enjoying the show and hopefully
it's something that really works out
well for you hmm we've got more viewer
questions we do have to take a quick
break and we will be right back so stick
around
you've got mad skills
now hone them learn new skills or
improve your existing ones with online
video tutorials and training from
lynda.com through our special link at
cat5 dot TV slash Linda learned software
technology creative and business skills
you can use today to help you achieve
your professional goals join today and
start learning we'll give you this
chance to try it absolutely free with
unlimited access to all of the courses
sign up now for free cat 5 dot TV slash
Linda welcome back this is category five
technology TV it's great to have you
here this is episode number 540 and that
means there have been 540 weeks of
category 5 technology TV so if you're if
you're diggin this show if you want to
get to know us the crew and some of the
folks that have come before us head on
over to our website category 5 TV you'll
be able to watch back episodes as I
mentioned at the top of the show you can
download us in BitTorrent and and you
can also catch us on YouTube and pretty
much anywhere else
we're on Plex Roku Kodi where yeah you
can subscribe to RSS feeds Facebook live
Facebook live that's right getting down
with the Bookface even YouTube live now
yes if you're watching on YouTube live
hey give us a like and a subscribe and
if you're watching on Facebook live give
us that
thumbs up right and say hi incidentally
speaking of if we can just hit hit this
real quick YouTube is making some major
changes to its policies when it comes to
monetization okay so what does that mean
for us for us it means that some of our
smaller shows the pixel shadow rights
new every day some of these shows that
we produce on a like new every day is a
weekly show right that costs money to
produce and we we faithfully produce
that and broadcast it every single week
we also have the pixel shadow which is a
semi-regular show we haven't brought in
an episode since the end of season 2 but
it's coming again so we produced these
so these smaller shows that have under a
thousand individual subscribers on
YouTube they are going to lose
monetization so you have to have over a
thousand in order and I have
monetization that's right any rules and
so it's just to subscribe right yeah
just clicking that subscribe button
that's how you get monetized no however
that's how you increase that's how you
as a viewer are able to increase the
number of subscribers to our programming
and YouTube has created this new rule
that says unless you have 1,000 or more
subscribers on the channel you cannot
make money from that channel so keep in
mind shows like new every day that
you're watching on roku or however
you're watching it and maybe not
subscribing on youtube because of the
fact that you're watching it some other
way may be through the website if you're
watching category 5 technology TV or if
you want to check out linux tech show
calm which or cut up clips of category 5
TV then please subscribe hit that
subscribe button
category 5 technology TV and linux tech
show calm are not in any way threatened
by this by the changes in the
monetization
because we have I think we've got about
eight thousand subscribers on category
five technology TV and nine and a half
thousand on Linux tech show comm right
so we're cool
but we'd like to hit that 10,000 mark
before the end of the month and then see
what happens
but you knew every day and the pixel
shadow in particular are under threat
from that so and to those who are
broadcasting on YouTube and wondering
you know wow this is really discouraging
for for smaller broadcasters like the
pixel shadow is my daughter's show right
and she's 12 how discouraging is that
the YouTube says you're not good enough
you're not you're not doing well enough
yeah and it makes sense I understand
that they they want to only put
advertising on popular shows but quite
frankly not a lot of our viewers
subscribe to our shows on YouTube
because that's not the way to watch
that's not exactly so wouldn't make
those of you who are granted thank you
thank you for those subscribes and
thanks for watching on YouTube but it's
a it's a comparatively small number
mm-hmm compared to RSS feeds and Roku in
particular Roku there are 20,000 views a
week so a huge difference versus the
maybe 5,000 views on YouTube except for
that one video I got to do another one
of those that was fun that was fun okay
so another question for us this one
comes to us from Chris Kevin Lee and
Chris Kevin Lee says hi Robby wonder if
you can help me please I've got two
computers running as home servers first
one is a Zen server with an IP address
of 192.168.1.2 and the host name is Zen
server one if I try to ping XenServer
one it comes back with ping unknown
hosts unknown host XenServer one then if
I run nslookup 192.168.1.2 it tells me
that the host name is complete the host
name
is computer - but I can ping 192.168.1.2
and it's fine
same for the second server but its IP is
a 192.168.1.3 right and the host name is
Chakotay and it's resolving to computer
the two servers have static IPS however
my main computer is called Janeway and
that's fine I'm guessing that has
something to do with DNS right so I
tried one factory reset on the router
and eight port managed switch to clear
DNS cache a with sudo / et Cie we're
really putting her to the test here
Chris / and SCD I hope I'm doing this
right
restarting NSC D yes yeah terminal
outputs ok three opened windows VM pings
Chakotay no problem okay four so from
within the virtual machine is able to
ping Chakotay which is the host name of
192.168.1.3 correct yeah you follow well
okay opened windows VM ping XenServer
one ping request could not find an
server one okay so have you bridged your
network because the XenServer is a
hypervisor so without bridging that into
the virtual network it's not going to be
accessible from within that virtual
network because you're looking at a
virtual machine on that hypervisor but
are those two networks the same that's
that may be an issue okay so from
XenServer one ping Chakotay and it
worked from Chakotay pings and server
one paying unknown host server are known
as n server one okay so does that sounds
like XenServer one is maybe not running
avahi daemon which would allow it to
respond by hostname so that's the answer
perhaps per
oops hard to say now keep in mind your
Zen server is that hypervisor and then
below that are your virtual machines
you've got a couple of them running and
those VMs are seemingly communicating
with one another but through IP
addresses yes through host names this is
this is a lot to take in Kris and and
for the viewers at home who are trying
to follow along as well it sounds like
there's just some networking issues
going on so I just explained a couple of
fundamentals about this type of
networking scenario and and as I
mentioned avahi daemon we just felt a
vah i - dae m o n if you install that
using apt or whatever package manager
that you're using if you install that
then it allows that computer to respond
by its host name within your network if
your computer does not have that and
it's a linux host then you may have
trouble resolving without knowing the IP
address so on my linux system for
example i'm just gonna bring up a
terminal window here let's get a look so
I'm going to type so I'm already root so
you need to be root on Ubuntu you're
gonna type sudo su to become root ok so
apt install avahi daemon now mile
inspire says avahi daemon is already the
newest version so this is something that
I would do not on my client maybe on my
client cuz I want all the computers to
be able to communicate but on the
computer that I'm trying to connect to
this is going to allow me to communicate
with it by hostname the other one that
you may want to be familiar with is
called Lib
pardon me Lib and SS - mdns let's see if
we have that apt install Lib NSS - mdns
and again and this shows this really is
showing us how Lin Spier kind of has
everything already built in out of the
box which is kind of cool I'm not having
to install these things but you may have
to on
other distros what live in a SS mdns
does differently as this allows our
computer to to see other dot local
computers within our land so if you
don't have that installed on your
computer the ghast the one that you're
trying to access the avahi daemon
computers from so my desktop computer
for example or chakotay you may need to
install that as well on that computer
so then you've got the ability to
communicate by hostname and if you're
not getting a response to XenServer one
try XenServer one dot local and that
tells it that it you're looking within a
local you're looking for a local NS
record not something out on the web and
that may help as well if all else fails
Chris I want to point you in the
direction of what's called a hosts file
Safa any idea what a host file might do
this is gonna be a shot in the dark I
can tell by that a host file would be
the bald nerd the one file that has all
of the things in it Bob nerd dot txt is
a host file right right a host file well
a host file is it tells your computer
what IP address to resolve based on an
NS name so XenServer one is 192.168.1.2
right so if I know that and I'm not able
to resolve that based on my internal DNS
I can actually forcibly set that setting
using a host file and what's nice about
that is it's something you can do in
both Linux and Windows so regardless of
what operating system you're using you
can do this now on my Linux computer if
I go into the slash et Cie and then nano
hosts you'll see that there's this file
here so what I could do Chris is I could
say XenServer like that a certain
XenServer one and just before that
192.168.1.3
and that's all that there is to it so
now I can output that file with ctrl o
and then if I try to ping that send
server one notice that my computer here
is trying to ping 192.168.1.3 but it's
going to bounce it's obviously gonna
tell us here in studio D that there is
no XenServer there is no 192.168.1.3 but
did you see how quickly I was able to
basically use a hacky workaround to tell
my computer hey 192.168.1.3 or dot - in
your case I've got the wrong IP my
mistake is XenServer one so now I can
resolve it without having to change
anything just editing my hosts file I
mentioned that this can be done on
Windows as well so let's get a look at
my Windows system here and on Windows I
can head into my C Drive and in Windows
I think it's under system 32 etc' no
drivers yes et Cie and there's the host
file so C or your hard drive windows
system32 drivers et Cie open the host
file you're gonna have to tell it that
you need to open it with notepad or Adam
or whatever text editor that's going to
be compatible and notice the similarity
here 192.168.1.2 is the correct address
and you can have a tab or a couple
spaces there whatever the XenServer one
save that file and now my window system
can also find that via the host name so
that works around your issue Chris I
hope that that points you in a direction
that's at least going to get you up and
running and help you out that was a
great question I think so yeah you know
thanks man
while that was happening I thought to
myself yeah we do all of these viewer
questions and they're super incredible
when we once did that Google hangout
which I'm sure will do that was really
yes that's a monthly patron yeah
event I I think it would be great to
have video questions video question you
have a question and you and you want to
like do a little video clip of your
question that would be incredible yeah I
don't see why not I mean send in your
question just film it on your phone and
send a selfie video to us more amazing
absolutely absolutely so I see your
faces
Sasha are you ready to try out your new
magical teleprompter could we just do a
little bit of a disclaimer on the fact
that tell the folks about this yes this
is the first time that I have had a real
teleprompter and the first time that I
have not been in control of the flow of
the words which mean we could be a
little choppy I'm I'm ready to rock here
are the stories were covering this week
in the category 5 TV newsroom 1 plus
confirmed on Friday that thieves have
sizes tens of thousands of credit card
numbers from its online store buses used
to transport Apple employees to their
offices have had their windows smashed
possibly by pellet guns a new botnet is
infecting cryptocurrency mining
computers and replacing wallet addresses
a remote-controlled drone in Australia
saved two boys in the water on its first
day of use by lifeguards these stories
are coming right up
don't go anywhere whether you shop on
thinkgeek gearbest B&amp;H photo video eBay
or Amazon or even if you want a free
trial of audible you'll find the best
deals and support the shows we produce
by simply visiting the shopping sites
you already frequent by using the links
on our website visit category-five TV
slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching this is the
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux bytes I'm Sacha Rickman and here
the top stories were following this week
oneplus confirmed on Friday that thieves
have siphoned tens of thousands of
credit card numbers from its online
store the Chinese phone company admitted
after a week of probing that about
40,000 of its customers have had payment
card details and nicked while they were
buying stuff from its Web shop crooks
were quick to start plundering victims
accounts using swiped information going
on shopping sprees with the stolen card
data here's how it went down one of the
storage servers was hacked and its code
modified so that between mid-november
2017 and January 11th of this year bank
card details that were typed into one
plus dot nap by shoppers were copied and
then sent over to miscreants
specifically the software was tampered
with with to harvest the numbers names
and security codes on cards before they
were encrypted and sent to oneplus
payment processor the server had since
been quarantined and the malicious code
removed oneplus said people who opted to
use PayPal were not affected
nor were anyone who had paid with a
credit card that they had saved to the
site prior to November 11th because
those cards had already been encrypted
by the payment provider and saved only
as tokens by one plot
Wow so if the credit-card information
has been stolen mm-hmm and then those
thieves have gone ahead and gone on
these fries do you know and you would
buy a boat do you get your money back is
this something that's I mean credit
cards typically have insurance sure they
do yeah and credit card providers have
insurance so that they're covered from
this kind of thing just like any theft
right some some credit card companies if
you do not report it as stolen you can
be liable for a small fee so in America
for example I think that the cap is $50
so so if they spend more than that
you're you're still only liable for $50
and this is not legal advice it's just a
statement so I have a follow-up question
okay did that answer your question this
is like oh this is like a bullet point
yes would oneplus automatically be
alerting those as stolen to the actual
credit card manufacturer credit card
they'd be alerting the customers
providers oh right is it on the customer
to say hey my stuff's been stolen or is
one much liable for sending that
information I think well oh well this is
a different case because these are not
stolen credit cards these are stolen
credit card numbers and when your credit
card number is stolen but you still hold
the physical card you are not at all
liable good okay so that is that's
that's covered so you do need to report
that your number has been stolen in this
case yeah you're probably right oneplus
has most likely gone ahead and notified
the credit card companies however if
you're a oneplus customer and you've
shopped on their website I would suggest
that you still reach out to your credit
card company and just let them know hey
I'm a little concerned about this so
they can note it and note it on the file
so that if there is any odd spending
then you know that that you're covered
at least the point to the point where
you've reported it to be honest with you
I think oneplus should probably just to
the actual credit card companies yeah
just and
realized that this is encrypted
information really and probably not no
it's not not I guess no understand
what's happened here is a
man-in-the-middle attack so when I go on
and I enter my credit card information
normally it goes through an encrypted
connection to the payment processor the
oneplus never sees the credit card
number the payment processor responds
with the first four and last four and
says yes that was a good transaction you
got your money or no it didn't go
through and here's why so one plus would
never actually have the credit card
number that's why they use tokens so the
payment processor which is the bank they
hold the credit card numbers they know
the credit card numbers oneplus has a
token that refers back to that
transaction okay so in this case a
man-in-the-middle got into the code and
started making it so that when that
credit card number is being transmitted
before it gets transmitted to the
payment processor it first gets
transmitted in an unencrypted form to
the miscreant so it's going to two
places right so we're not stealing
credit card numbers from one Plus's
database that wasn't possible in this
case they're they're copying the credit
card number as it's being submitted for
a processed payment right I mean I check
my balances and my activity on the daily
I really and I have my phone linked so
that if I any purchases made it messages
me oh yes so like I know what comes out
of my account yeah but some people don't
some people wait till they get their
bell at the end of the month and could
you imagine if a boat had been like you
went on one plus net and you bought like
one thing and then all of a sudden
you're like my new phone cost me forty
million dollars really alright buses
used to transport Apple employees to
their offices have had their windows
smashed possibly by pellet guns there
have been several such attacks on the
morning and evening commutes to and from
Apple headquarters in the Californian
city of
pepper cappuccino local news website s
sfg SFGate reported that a google bus
had also been targeted there have been
no reported injuries and there is no
suggestion that the perpetrator is
targeting a particular company the
attacks could be linked to previous ill
feelings about how the tech sector is
causing a gentrification of San
Francisco and the surrounding area in
2013 a bus carrying Google employees
also had its windows smashed following
followed by protests over how well paid
sector has pushed up house prices in the
city
the current attacks all took place on
highway 280 with reports suggesting that
Apple is now diverting its buses from
that road adding 30 to 45 minutes to the
commute
yikes so now that autonomous buses and
transport is happening do you think that
this will increase because now there may
be yeah I mean if you think about so
gentrification is happening whether you
want to deny it or not and and what that
means is that the tech sector is
bringing in high paid employees so
because of that now the demand is there
for higher grade restaurants more
expensive grocery stores better
convenience stores and all this kind of
so the price of living goes way up so
then the people who have already been
living there whose income does not go
way up are affected and so would a bus
that is autonomous yet carrying
employees would it not be a target in
that it's a symbol of it is a symbol of
that of what's going on in the community
but also because it's autonomous it
almost feels like I don't know why the
driver makes it feel this way whether
there's a driver or not a driver but the
autonomous nature of that bus makes it
seem like it's like attacking a robot
versus attacking a person right you know
what I mean maybe they just need to have
a security person sitting in where the
driver would maybe maybe there
is I mean autonomous vehicle still
require somebody behind the wheel right
I would honestly say if I was being
attacked on a commuting vehicle and then
the route was changed so it was adding
3000 45 minutes bring your guitar well
just drive myself right well why would I
take a shuttle if a I knew it was
getting attacked and B if to to keep
from getting attacked I was gonna have
to take this huge detour so it's no
longer saving anything right because if
you were gas savings or if you were
doing it you know in some sort of
environmentally friendly reason you're
not any longer if you're diverting by 45
minutes Wow
so then there's so much to it though
drive yourself yeah a lot of these
people may not have vehicles even sure
they're highly paid but you're there on
a internship or whatever and you're
there for six months and you don't need
a vehicle are you gonna rent a vehicle
are you gonna buy a vehicle maybe
they've been you know they've come
overseas to work at Google
it's a tough and there's just gotta be
some sort of I don't know maybe video
cameras on the outside of it then that's
privacy I don't know I can't solve armor
armor just like it's gonna look like
Total Recall the first one
it's like armored vehicles traveling by
way of Johnny robot satori the malware
family that wrangles routers security
cameras and other Internet connected
devices into potent botnets is crashing
the cryptocurrency party with a new
variant that secretly infects computers
dedicated to the mining of digital coins
a version of Satori that appeared
earlier this month exploits weaknesses
in the clay miner after gaining control
of the coin mining software the malware
replaces the wallet address the computer
owner uses to collect newly minted
currency with an address controlled by
the attacker
from then on the attacker receives all
the coins generated and owners are none
the wiser unless they have taken the
time to manually inspect their software
configuration records show that the
attacker controlled wallet has already
cashed out slightly more than one
aetherium coin that was valued at as
much as $1,300 when the transaction was
made the records also showed that the
attacker is actively mining more with a
calculation power of about two point 1
billion hashes per second that's roughly
equivalent to the output of 85 computers
each running a Radeon X 480 graphics
card of more than one 1,100 computers
running a GeForce GTX 560 M it's not
clear precisely how the new variant is
infecting mining computers what is known
is that Satori works primarily on the
claim where mining equipment that allows
management actions on 3333 point ports
with no password authentication enabled
which is the default configuration yeah
no password no password so now is there
a way if you realize that this has
happened to you for you to you have to
you have to check see because the whole
idea behind a Bitcoin miner is that you
create a server that goes and mines
currency non-stop and you just let it go
the whole idea is you do the work little
server right and I want I want to be
hands-off and just make money off of
this and it has to be that way because a
lot of the folks who are really into
this and making money off of it are very
you know it's it's built it's running
it's 24/7 and it's making me money right
what happens when you when currency is
mine when cryptocurrency is mine is that
it goes into a digital wallet if you
will okay that's the term that we use
and what is happening quite frankly is
that this wallet is being replaced with
the wallet of the thief so now as the
coin is being mined it's going into
their wallet and your wallet is gone
right so you can look at your wallet and
you'd say huh my minor has been running
for two weeks and I haven't made even a
nano scopic amount of money how's that
possible and then you might look and say
okay from this you know the hash that is
my wallet would you notice that wait a
minute that's not my wallet right that's
someone else's what the average person
noticed that would the average person
run a Meijer not likely so there's
somebody who runs a minor would probably
know the first few digits of their of
their wallet hash for sure I mean you'd
recognize it like your credit card you
may not memorize your credit card number
but you know you know the last four
digits I'm sure probably know what's not
your credit card yeah yeah exactly so
but boy that's so this has created a
botnet of all these stolen computer like
hijacked computers that are distracted
or putting their money into this guy if
this person's wallet got a crazy rate so
I don't know a lot about all the
different types of cryptocurrency
I thought there was only one there are
more than one there is a whopper coin
yes all right yeah Wow so yeah check
your wallet double-check that your
whopper coin is going into the correct
whopper savings account and also
password everything don't stick with the
default config yes oh my goodness no
even I know that
yep all right we've reported in the past
about neat ways that drones can be used
like a combination defibrillator and
first aid kit that can fly into disaster
areas much more quickly than emergency
responders but now put to the test in
Australia little Ripper the lifeguard
drone saved not one but two young boys
on its first day of service little
Ripper is a remote-controlled
multicopter that carries a floatation
device on its first day of service off
the coast of lennox head in australia
the drone was used to drop a floatation
device for two boys in distress
traditionally lifeguards would have had
a great deal of trouble reaching the
boys who were struggling in the waves
far out from shore it's estimated that
it would have taken lifeguards at least
six minutes to reach them but the drone
controlled by an onshore lifeguard
reached them in only 70 seconds the
lifeguard launched the drone spotted the
boys flew it over to them and remotely
dropped the flotation device the boys
were able to grab it and swim to shore
the drone is manufactured by a company
called little Ripper lifesaver founded
by Kevin Weldon after he witnessed a
drone canvassing the streets of New
Orleans after Hurricane Katrina and
realized its life-saving potential the
Marine pod that was dropped in this case
contained a water triggered floatation
device which is repack Alandra usable
the company is now testing a salt water
activated electromagnetic shark
repellent device with plans to include
it in its future kits wow what a great
story that is one attack win awesome win
for the drones finally a drone that's a
good guy and to be honest with you this
this shark repellent one that's mean
that's gonna actually save the lives of
sharks and people because now they'll be
able to drop the shark deterrent in and
then they will be lowering the number of
shark attacks and perhaps then changing
our views on sharks which are also
awesome beasts even though they like to
eat people well this got really dark
really quick yeah what they don't like
to eat people
okay really good job so big thanks to
Roy W Nash in our community of viewers
for submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight lenox bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Rickman well this is category 5
technology TV this has been episode
number 540 and it's been a great one the
the hour just goes by like that it takes
ya no time mm-hmm-hmm thanks for a
chatroom for participating tonight thank
you to our patrons who make this show
possible if you'd like to become a
patron or at least learn what that means
head on over to patreon dot-com slash
category-five what's cool about this
show is we are volunteers and we do this
for free we give you the show absolutely
free but there are some rather extensive
expenses which are covered by things
like advertisers and our patrons who
contribute to the show once a month just
a small amount once a month to say
thanks and it helps keep us strong and
to be honest with you the payback for it
is incredible because I receive email
vlogs and updates and it's fun it's fun
to be a patron so and you get to see
some behind the scenes stuff too it's
cool
which is we like to we like to do that
for you and I mentioned we mentioned a
little bit earlier patron Google+ or
Google Hangouts that happens once a
month we've had one already and you can
actually participate in that and be a
part of the communication be actually in
the video if you're a patron at that
level so kind of cool stuff well thank
you everybody for joining us this week
Sasha great job that was fun that was
how was the new teleprompter it's
intimidating
yeah it's really actually great it was
neat that you were like making eye
contact with us
oh yeah right that's right that part
felt great and I had both of my hands
wait later on as I get more comfortable
I will use right yeah right now I was
clasping them together
you traditionally the way that we've
done it is a screen above the camera and
so Sasha has to look a little bit above
the camera in order to read which is
kind of you know technology grows and
gets better around here okay so Jay
realize that this has been a whole hour
so this is gonna be a whole layer you're
like how does it work
where is where's the camera
you can't see she can't she can't see
the camera that's hilarious
so is it through the teleprompter it's
yes the teleprompter is in front of the
lens so you at home don't see it but
that's isn't that neat that's amazing so
we're actually looking at the
teleprompter as we're looking at you
through the camera so neat stuff do I
have like one second to just update
everybody on it like my just the last
week what I did please do yeah I read
the entire book ready player one the
moon the ice heard of the movie the
movies come out in March so Dave
borrowed the book from a friend for him
to read and I read the whole thing
instead it is an incredible book the
movie is coming out so you could skip
reading the book and watch the movie
which I'm sure is also gonna be awesome
but this is a book that if you know me
under you'll understand how much I love
this concept it's about a like inclusive
like a virtual reality separate world so
it's a dystopian world okay yeah right
and you log in with a virtual reality
headset you have haptic feedback gloves
and you live your life like you can go
to school and everything in this other
world called the Oasis right and so it's
a story in the Oasis and somewhat
outside of it as well anyway kind of
matrix II it's super like matrix meets
black mirror meets like tacky
awesomeness meets game so is a fun book
are you gonna go see the movie yes all
right you're gonna report back which is
better the book or the movie I can
already tell you the book is better
because I imagine things very vividly as
you can imagine cool so yeah there's no
way they could do enough
gie tonight I've been reading what's it
called I don't even know I don't even
know it's sci-fi but it's like a teen
sci-fi and it's but I thought I would I
thought I would try it the just why
can't I remember because I wasn't
thinking hey I'm gonna talk about the
books that I've been reading I read a
whole book I'm not kidding you I read I
started Cassie what's the one with
Cassie Oh Cassie and the aliens coming
to Earth somebody what's the one with
Cassie and the aliens coming to Earth
and attack anyways it's been pretty neat
but I don't know that I will enjoy the
movie because it's very teen romance as
a book you can you can see past that
right I watched The Hunger Games I read
the books and watched the movie and I
liked both of those and they're a team
level did you see any of those or no
it's good yeah what books do you enjoy
do you have any clue what book it is
that I am reading because I obviously
don't look I have read four hundred and
fifty pages of it but I only read the
cover once so that's good this reminds
me of that time I was like remember that
game I played that one time did
everybody remember yeah I know never did
figure it out we never did figure it out
but I can't find it
wow that's gonna bug me until I get home
and look at the cover but somebody's
gonna mention it in the chat room
so have a wonderful week everybody and
I'm looking forward to seeing you again
next week so see ya
