welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 321 it's tuesday the the
12 of november 2013 nice to see you I'm
Robbie Ferguson welcome everyone I'm
Hillary Rumble and guess what we've got
a lot of interesting news stories coming
your way so stick around these are
coming up in our show toyota is
suggesting a vehicle inspired by a horse
your smartphone pin could be determined
by using the phone's camera and
microphone and Internet Archive has had
a fire at its building in San Francisco
that is not good additionally from 150
million compromised adobe user accounts
123456 was the most popular password
shocking quick I better change all my
passwords Oh lastly and an expensive
robotic arm has been created which boots
humans supers the human super strength
so you're stronger winning its young
creators the james dyson award why do
you need to work out anymore help i
don't i don't in the first place just
get an exoskeleton everybody's doing it
yeah tonight we're also going to be
actually well we've got a pretty full
mailbag tonight we're going to be
answering your viewer questions send
them in live at category 5 TV but also
i'm going to show you how to take that
horrible windows 8 interface and roll it
back make it look more like windows
seven so if you're stuck on windows 8
not too happy about the touchscreen
style interface stick around we're gonna
learn how to change that don't go
anywhere it's gonna be a great show this
is category 5 technology TV
starring Sasha dramatis
Hillary rumble
christo wells
err kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
at eco alkalines we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
that rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference eco alkaline scom
broadcasting since 2007 category 5
technology TV has grown year after year
faithfully bringing viewers hundreds of
one-hour episodes focused on helping
with their tech questions assisting with
the migration to Linux and other open
source alternatives presenting new and
interesting tech products and providing
insightful interviews and demonstrations
all this is provided free of charge we
are now in our seventh season and it's
time to improve the viewing experience
make the show look and sound great we
continue our focus on fun educational
broadcasting stand with us as we build a
brand new studio for category 5
technology TV bringing category 5 TV to
the world with better visuals full 1080p
video and a permanent sound isolated
studio we have big dreams and we want
you to be a part of them please support
category 5 technology TV visit cat5 TV /
studio to be a part of our crowdfunding
campaign for a limited time with
contributor perks brought to you in part
by category 5 technology TV back to
nature compostable garbage bags eco
alkalines environmentally responsible
batteries free play human powered
devices
nettalk duo two with free calls to the
USA and Canada and no monthly phone bill
and the android-powered rikomagic mini
PC we thank you for your support please
visit cat5 TV / studio today this is
category 5 technology TV i'm your host
Robbie Ferguson and I'm Hillary Rumble
nice to see you we are grateful you are
here and we are also so grateful for
those who have already contributed funds
to our fundraising efforts as you just
watched in that clip we are always
growing and always expanding and in
order to do so we need a little bit of
moolah it's true and so we only have 18
days left of our efforts our fundraising
efforts are done on IndieGoGo and we
have links set up right Robbie sure Duke
at five dot TV / studio is our quick
link to get to the campaign and show
your contribution and we do have some
great perks don't we being able to we
actually have an early bird prize you
saw in the commercial but nettalk duo
two with three months of service is you
you can actually donate less than what
you would pay to buy this in the store
and you'll receive it with the free long
distance and everything like that we've
got the eco pack from eco alkalines free
play and back to nature they've all
teamed up so you get a ton of batteries
you get environmentally friendly
flashlights that has built-in recharger
that you can crank we charge it by USB
and it also comes with some compostable
bags as well so that's there we've got
perks from rikomagic lots of cool
category 5 swag too and that's the true
fans that's how we will know if you're a
true blue fan on 8 by 10 with Hillary's
face we got even want this seriously not
raining but in all seriousness we do
appreciate so much those who have
contributed already but we still need
more help we need your money and I was
figuring this out in my head if
everybody who has watched the show as we
know because we see on our viewer map
the pin points from around the world if
everyone were to just donate a dollar
when puck it's amazing people
we would be gold in like our pseudo be
set we'd be ready to move forward with
some of our new ideas and new concepts
for the new year so I mean one dollar so
imagine what ten dollars does or $25
realistically I mean when you think
about the fact that there are even
businesses out there that could give a
thousand or five thousand dollars that
would be a huge boost so if you have
those kind of contacts or if you own a
business and you want to gain the
advertising advantage of being a part of
a sponsorship opportunity here on our
show check out some of the business
perks at cat five dot TV / studio as
well but we're really really excited
about what's going to come in category 5
some people you know see what we do and
they say well why would I want to donate
to something you know it's not it's not
a charity and we know that we live in a
world where there there are so many
needs especially now with some of the
devastation that's been going on in the
Philippines it's unbelievable and that's
where your money should be going so you
know if it comes down to it I would say
do that because what we do is you know
we're helping people with their computer
problems and we're offering a free
service and we're kind of fighting the
man in that we want to add free
television to your repertoire of what's
available to you and we work with other
people and we work with I'm actually
working with a gentleman right now
developing a show and I'm kind of
involved in the promotional aspect of it
but what he's doing is developing a kind
of a reality show that will help you as
a home buyer to be able to recognize
what to watch out for in your home
inspection so you know totally different
from what we do here at category 5 but
with the growth of category 5 and with
the expansion of our studio we're going
to be able to do more and more things to
provide for you free television so that
you can cut your cable bill and it's not
just if you're like oh man I don't know
linux mm-hmm we will teach you well a we
will teach you but B we just it's a vast
umbrella of knowledge this guy house
okay and he wants to share with you
something about everything everything
and anything and if he doesn't know the
answer he will find the answer and tell
you as well we're trying to serve
different types of people from around
the world I know in particular my deaf
community
I I'm trying to make this an accessible
show for them so content is available
with closed captioning so please send me
your money thank you it's not a second
thought to you but that would be
terrific to be hable to have that
accessibility component to a whole new
group of you so can my lips be red okay
like if I speak I mean you cannot you
can understand me obviously but right
now wouldn't it be nice to have closed
captioning and that's something we've
actually been working toward and and I
think that would that be an incredible
thing to be able to offer but it's very
very expensive to do and so we need to
partner with other charitable
organizations groups that that you know
provide closed captioning for charities
and for nonprofit groups and we're not a
registered nonprofit or charity we're
technically a business but we do this as
a free service and so what we do is
offer it absolutely free so you know as
a business now we do it for the love for
the love of Technology people and for
the love of our community yes everything
folks so cap five dot TV / studio do
check out what we're doing what we have
planned very very excited about what's
to come here at category 5 technology TV
and as Hillary has mentioned thank you
so much to those of you who have
supported us thus far you can also
contribute more than one time and I say
that because a few people have said to
me all while I contributed and I got an
eight by ten of the the group personally
autographed that's great but I also want
a sticker what do I do well that's fine
you can go and you can contribute for
the perk that also provides for you a
category 5 logo vinyl sticker so you can
actually do another contribution and
you'll get another perk so no problem
there all right good to me all right
speaking of stuff that we love to give
away we have the eco alkalines pack of
batteries we are going to be given away
and that is actually coming up real
quick next week yeah we're going to be
sending this your way so it has double a
triple a nine volt C and D batteries and
we're talking big boxes of these things
like I've got you know a box like this
sweet and you know because it's a bulk
pack it looks it looks small because
you're used to the four
acts on the shelf there are 24 double-a
batteries in here that's you imagine how
many packs of batteries that is it's
fantastic so we're talking a whole bunch
of batteries and these batteries eco
alkalines they are now available at Best
Buy and future shop in Canada so if
you're in Canada head on out there and
pick up a few packs for yourself see
that these are exceptional batteries
they're better for the environment as
well they're environmentally responsible
they will break down they don't have the
the cadmium mercury or lead that some
batteries do contain yes so there's not
that you know the the metals that are
leaking into our environment which to me
is very important so check out more
about them cat five dot TV / eco and if
you'd like to win all you have to do get
into the chat room right now if you're
watching live and post your state or
province and that's the way to cast your
ballot whoo it's that easy that way we
know where you're from if you're
watching this after the fact on demand
YouTube on rikomagic device on miro
internet TV if you're watching on roku
first run TV wherever you are if you're
watching this not live I was going to
like zero working on live so you're
watching this on demand all you have to
do is email live at category five dot TV
with the same info just give us your
registered user name from the category
five TV website and and as well your
state or province and that will be your
way to cast the ballot so the draw feck
again is next Tuesday night you don't
want to miss out on that that is
terrific category five TV is a member of
the tech podcast network if it's tech
it's here cat5e v /t p.m. and the
international association of tech
broadcaster of internet broadcasters you
can check that out at cat five TV / IA
ib thanks help check out our mobile site
scan the code it's Emmett cat5 TV you
can watch on-demand you can listen to
category 5 radio live and you can watch
the show live there as well so check it
out a macat five dot TV very cool I'm at
this point I just want to say a quick
shout out to some of our new
registered viewers registry registering
is free yeah I should have because
people are saying well how do I get
registered on the website category five
dot TV click on the register or login
link up the top and you'll be able to
register on our site absolutely free and
what are the perks of registering Robbie
win batteries win prizes become a
participant in the contest that we hold
and the all-round warm fuzzy feeling of
knowing that you are a part of an
amazing loving community of Linux loving
individuals true say can't get better
than that unplanned shot art knows what
he's talking about yeah they joined up
don't you as well as oh dear Jane
Villanueva that works for me welcome who
else you got there Robbie okay ray an MD
dang nice to have you registered on our
website as well as sojourner tux tech
and raji scar Rogers car oh maybe it's
like a I don't know we're just the car
maybe I'm sorry I vine it's hard for me
to read these things guys thank you for
you somehow I ended up with two ride
race car that was well well planned
folks your illustration orders thank you
very much thanks for signing up a
category 5 yeah hey speaking of our
website we've got a new feature there i
want to show you oh cool people love I
mean I nothing thoughts in your head but
I have received notes that people love
to receive the to see pictures of behind
the scenes here category 5 it's cool and
so we've been working on you know
progressively adding more and more and
more now we're at the point where yeah
we've got a decent camera that snapping
pictures every 10 seconds and we've got
you know a nice plethora of pictures to
work with at the end of each show so on
our website category 5 TV now if you go
to any one of the episodes I'm going to
go to the one on episode 3 19 yeah just
so that we can see what I'm talking
about here so of course on the show
notes page for this particular episode
you'll see that there is the photo
gallery
so I can click on any one of these
pictures and see how things were done
behind the scenes that's kind of cool
cool so that's not new that's been there
for a little while however now under
direct downloads you'll see that not
only can you download the HD SD LD and
mp3 audio files that's also not new but
some of you may not have known about
that you can actually click you know
right click and save the file that is
the full HD video file absolutely free
but also we have high resolution JPEGs
that you can download every single
picture from behind the scenes that is
attributed attributed to this particular
episode so there we go I gotta get these
from it brings up the JPEG and it is
full resolution you can see the glare oh
come on that is something else so that's
right on our website category 5 TV just
in the show notes go to direct downloads
that's a brand new feature so that you
can get access to create desktop
wallpaper if you want share them with
the community whatever you like
everything is licensed under creative
commons attribution here so enjoy have
fun that's really cool yeah okay well
have you had the fun experience of
working with windows 8 yet ah yes yeah
my work computer it's on your work
computer and how do you love that like
weird i'm like scroll I want to make it
scare you want to like drag it but then
you end up grabbing one of the tiles and
flicking it off the screen it's like
where did the tile go now no idea it's
just I'm not a fan sorry not gonna lie a
huge fan of Windows Oh tryna figure it
out I I do call myself a little bit old
school I know that I'm a little bit old
school when it comes to my operating
system I still run mate because i love
gnome too hmm and I don't want a
touchscreen interface on my computer so
that's Linux but on Windows partly on
windows they're doing the same thing
where it kind of feels like things are
developed for a touchscreen in fact I
had a customer come in and their
computer had crashed
so they needed us to transfer the data
onto their new computer they bought a
new computer in town and it had windows
8 on it and they said I can't figure out
how to use this stupid thing nothing is
where it used to be I can't find
anything I can't figure out how to use
my computer why are all of these icons
up on the screen I mean there it is
there's windows 8 8.1 as a matter of
fact oh and they showed me and it's like
okay well where is this stuff and here's
this clutter of you know i'm not looking
at a telephone right now I'm looking at
my screen on my desk I'm operating it
with a mouse I've got a keyboard in
front of me i'm not using an on-screen
keyboard i think ok well because this is
an on-screen thing i'm going to grab
with my mouse and drag nope there's what
I'm talking no I know it's not even
moving no I'm reorganized ha no I need
to oh it's like a website i have to grab
this task bar at the bottom or the
scroll bar at the bottom and
horizontally scroll in this horrible
environment of devilish evil it just
doesn't feel right so what do we do we
revert to our desktop oh I know that's
fantastic oh it feels more like Windows
doesn't it ok so let's bring up our
Start menu oh ah see what oh my god but
I click on the Start menu in it it takes
me to this thing Oh something I go oh ok
well if I want a bundt cake apparently
I'm oh goody for it good ok ok i don't
want bundt cake i'm not into football
what this is the problem i'm being over
exaggerating a little bit but this is
how the user sees windows 8 sure I mean
you might be a power user a little bit
and you you love to tinker and you love
to figure your way around and trial the
new things but the user who you know
there is a huge amount uh you know the
user base of Windows who just expect
when i click on the II don't even know
what it's called that's when i click on
the e it's going to give me the internet
and that when i click on the envelope
it's going to give me my email right if
I if I ever lose my bookmarks I don't
know how to get around the internet if I
ever lose google or bing I don't know
how to get around the internet and that
might be you if you're watching this
after the factory know maybe then there
you go there's a huge user base that's
like that so throw this at you and say
okay now go okay where do I go what do I
do why do I have the London forecast
when I'm in Barrie Ontario oh I've got
Sydnee that's good for some some of you
watching looks like it's nice there
Paris okay so what now I'm traveling
okay so this is useless to me so I go
back to my desktop and I want my start
menu but it's nowhere to be found and I
click it and it just takes me back and
forth and back and forth it's a
nightmare I've only got internet
explorer so what do I do i click on it
and I out of devastation what do I do oh
I closed the tab and it closes Internet
Explorer even that is horrible let's see
if we can get away from this msn stuff
for one thing because that's just a
flutter okay internet options change my
homepage HTTP colon slash slash ww
google com let's just say we're not
saying that you need to be Google but i
don't particularly want to endorse the
advertisements that come up on msn one
category five at least google we're not
bombarded with that SI and o that was
neat okay so jumps around oh man getting
a little nauseous what are your thoughts
about Windows 8 thus far i'm using
windows 8.1 do you love it do you hate
it or you can't on the fence not really
sure or maybe you're just strictly linux
and so you don't really care but the
fact is you know on people say well why
are you looking at windows 8 when this
is predominantly a linux show well we do
have windows users that watch the show
some of you have it at work what do you
do it does
what it is bro and to some of you this
may not be news but stick around it's
it's fun for the viewers that have never
seen this kind of thing before so here
we are we're going to bring up Internet
Explorer and from Internet Explorer I'm
going to head over to this great website
that's going to help me with this awful
interface is called Classic Shell dotnet
okay we've got that up now we're going
to talk okay what we don't like about
windows 8 and I'm saying we I'm talking
about the client who comes in with a
computer and says where is my start menu
yes what we don't like about it is that
we are using a laptop computer with a
keyboard and a touchpad and maybe an
external mouse I'm using a desktop
computer with a mouse and a keyboard and
a big screen I'm not using a touchscreen
I'm not doing this on my screen I'm not
moving things around like this I'm using
a mouse so it needs to be an interface
that's built for the mouse the whole
start menu thing is a big problem for a
lot of people when 8.1 came out and
brought in the menu that I showed you
there and just takes you back to the
start screen people will set a joke is
Microsoft laughing at us so classic
shell is a free piece of software that
as they say it improves your
productivity it enhances the usability
of windows 8 and empowers you to use the
computer the way you like it all right
which is a good statement yeah it's
maybe not for everyone but Classic Shell
empowers you to use windows the way that
you like it so let's say windows 7
windows XP that kind of an interface
okay so back at my desktop yes here we
are okay all I need to do is click on
download now uh-huh download now there
it is okay do you want to run yes run
running security scan preparing to
install and next I accept this lovely
agreement to make my computer old school
ok here's the first thing that you're
kind of asked here what do you want to
food with classic shell classic explorer
okay classic explorer adds the standard
toolbar to explore it features things
like cut copy paste delete properties
email of course I want that it can show
the free disk space and the total file
size in your status bar why don't we
already have that in Windows 8 I don't
know it can also disable the breadcrumbs
in the address bar so we want that okay
do we want the classic start menu yeah
that's going to give us the Windows 8 or
Windows 7 style start menu and classic
ie actually good pardon me it adds a
caption to the top of your internet
explorer window so you can actually see
the title of the website that you're on
we've lost that feature so this reads
that it also shows the security zone in
the status bar and it also shows the
loading progress in the status bar
things that you expect from your browser
those are included with classic IE so
generally we're going to want to allow
it to install everything the last option
is classic shell update do you want it
to look for updates to itself in case
they bring out some new things
absolutely next and install doesn't take
long is this okay yeah of course it is
yeah I'm gonna say yeah okay we can turn
off view readme file unless you want to
read it we're not going to right now and
I would encourage you if you support
this project and you find that you like
it do click the donate to classic shell
button because this is a donation
supported free software finish okay so
what do I do now let's close out of
internet explorer here i am i'm going to
click on this start button down at the
bottom left whoa dad that's new familiar
that didn't come up with the crazy
desktop thing but it's asking me
something here what do I want a classic
style Start menu that looks like windows
XP style do you want a two column which
looks a little more like Windows 7 and
then the actual windows seven style
right there so I'm going to go with the
defaults here let's look at the basic
settings left click on the Start menu or
on the
start button brings up classic start
menu shift and click opens the Windows
Start screen that's the thing that we're
trying to get away from windows key
opens the start menu and shift windows
opens the Windows Start screen you can
go through all of these settings you're
probably going to just want all of these
to stay as they are nice thing is that
it also contains a shutdown command so
you don't have to try to find shut down
by pointing to the lower right of your
screen oh there it is under Oh settings
right of course because i'm going to
configure my shutdown no i actually have
to go through this and then find it oh
my goodness that's actually helpful
because i actually don't know how to
shut mine worked one day now you know
you kind of jiggle your mouse over the
right-hand corner and then when it comes
up you push settings because if you're
gonna configure something no that's
that's that's daft for sure okay but
what's going to happen here is that it's
going to give us the proper shut down
option okay scrolling down through the
settings real quick look at this start
automatically for this user and perhaps
the most brilliant thing right at the
bottom skip Metro screen what that means
is it it's going to absolutely avoid
ever loading that Start screen with all
those tiles okay so I'm gonna hit OK and
could it really be that simple let's see
are you ready hill I don't know if I can
handle this can you handle this it's
gonna make me rethink everything let's
click the start button ah oh my lanta
look at that we're still in Windows 8
but this is understand looks just like
windows 7 look at our control panel nice
and clean much much more familiar double
click on control panel to bring it up
and you'll see that of course explorer
is you know we've got a file menu and
all this kind of stuff that you would
expect operates a little bit more
normally okay let's bring up Internet
Explorer and you'll see
the classic explorer bar is ready for
use and able there we go okay so now
it's enabled we can now you ready for
this right click on your basically the
blue area up here the teal area and we
can turn on all of these things now
status bar now we have a status bar at
the bottom see down there when I point
to links I can see them right click
again and add a favorites bar brilliant
now I can add my favorites there you go
I can add a menu bar that's your file to
all that kind of stuff don't know why I
added to Google things there I guess
because I added this as a favorite
that's what I do all right and that's
really you know that's what we need to
know about the Explorer extension
classic IE but there you go so now if
you want to add favorites and stuff
they're going to be easily accessible on
this toolbar so you can get there nice
and easy but it's really nice to have
the status bar at the bottom as well and
it starts to feel more like the browser
that you're used to rather than this
thing that's built for a full screen
tablet okay so now if when I click on
this every time that I click on it okay
well now what if I what if I really for
some reason want to get back to the
start screen well we saw in the settings
that if we hold in the shift key on our
keyboard and click on the start button
it will in fact take me back to that
screen then if I hit the start button on
my keyboard now it brings me back to
this but I never in fact see this screen
unless I specifically demand it by
pressing the shift key because when i
first turn on my computer now windows 8
it's going to go directly to my desktop
with my start menu with my actual shut
down options just like you would expect
from say windows seven so now we're able
to get the benefits of say you know of
windows 8 the speed improvements and
generally all-round kind of faster more
streamlined operating system but with
the familiarity of windows seven
so microsoft hasn't really locked us
down as much as they've tried this
particular program is given it to us so
this is called Classic Shell and you can
get it for absolutely free and you can
get your windows 8 to look and feel like
Windows 7 it's classic shell dotnet
check that out today and it will also
run on windows seven if you want to be
able to take advantage of some of the
exciting features should note as well
the classic shell is skinnable so you
can actually change we're not limited to
just windows XP style in windows 7 style
you can actually download other skins
for your start menu in fact you can
create your own skins and there's a
helpful skinning tutorial i'll include
the link for you in the show notes of
episode number 321 Classic Shell net
write that down do that at work get that
hilarious work do tell the boss because
the boss is gonna want it yeah probably
yeah it's tricky so I'm sure everyone we
want it there you go folks Thank You
Robbie now I know how to turn my
computer off and how to rectify my
Confucius yes ah hang it back I'm glad I
was here for this I could watch in real
life I now know and now I'm going to
tell you the things you need to know
about the news these are top stories
from a category 5 itv news room we
oughta has suggested motorists of the
future could ride about in a vehicle
that was inspired by a horse it has a
concept car the drivers could control by
shifting their body weight while
standing and doing away with the need
for steering wheel so what happens then
Hillary if you got a groove going on
it's like a song you know you're the
guys who drive back so he's in the
things swerving all over the road just
an observation they call obtained yeah
yeah one analyst said the current design
pose too many safety issues though but
it did point towards future developments
the FV two vehicle will make its
official debut at the toy the tokyo
motor show next weekend cool
very cool the pin for a smartphone can
be revealed by its camera and microphone
researchers have warned using a program
called pin skimmer a team from the
University of Cambridge found that code
entered on a number only soft keypad
could be identified the software watches
your face via the camera so when you're
holding it like this and listens to
clicks through your microphone as you
type the tests were carried out on the
google nexus s and the Galus galaxy s3
smartphones to prove that this attack
could be conducted also on an iPhone our
very own Robbie Ferguson demonstrates in
this exclusive clip how easy it is for
phone cameras and microphone to pick up
on your password 1234 thus it is never a
good idea to speak your passwords aloud
while punching them in the nonprofit
organization behind the Internet Archive
has made a plea for donations following
the group runs the popular Wayback
Machine an archive of 364 billion web
pages designed to show people what sites
look like in years gone by no data was
lost a smoke a spokesman said but the
damage was estimated to be about six
hundred thousand dollars which is about
three hundred and seventy three thousand
pounds on the group's blog founder
Brewster Kahle wrote this episode has
reminded us that digitizing and making
copies are good strategies for both
access and preservation thankfully no
one was hurt in the blaze you can visit
blog archive org for the full story and
learn how you can help with this effort
online copies of the passwords of 150
have led security researchers find out
more about users password creating
habits the analysis suggests that many
people are making it easier for
attackers by using easy to guest pass
123456 was in fact the most popular
password among the millions of Adobe
users whose details were stolen during
an attack on the company about 1.9
million people use this sequence
according to analysis of data lost in
the leak Oh folks makes me want to
rethink everything yeah no those are
that's ridiculous and I've heard I've
heard rumor that that security analysts
are actually taking that list which was
stolen from adobe's site boy and then
made public so now they've got this list
of real user passwords and they're
saying who 1.9 people use one two three
four five six that's a problem folks
there needs to be I mean if if any of
you have any kind of passwords like that
we need to really reiterate you know
watch past shows where category 5 has
talked about password strength we had
one recently Eric was on the show you
can look it up on our website category 5
TV and we talked about password strength
and entropy really really important
that's scary I know that's really scary
I saw the list and I looked at the top
you know 2025 and unbelievable to see
that literally the the top used
passwords are numbers like 1 111 or
abcdefg or QWERTY or silly stuff like
that and on the adobe site you have a
lot of people using like adobe 123 like
that's your strategy and you think oh
well nobody's going to guess but it may
it makes it easy for you to remember
because you're on the adobe site and so
i type okay what's my twitter password
again oh yeah twitter one two three but
to think that you are not alone in that
fry and that it is one of the number one
and passwords used out of a hundred and
fifty million passwords compromised so
we really need to rethink our strategies
when it comes to our passwords do it
somebody said to me not to not to
digress somebody said to me well why
does it matter if
email password changes or not because my
e-mail password is you know that
somebody had compromised their computer
their email the user had gained access
to their email so they called their bank
and they changed their banking password
they did this and that they've changed
all their main passwords but they didn't
ever touch their email password silly
thing and I said okay well what happens
when you go to your online bank pardon
me and you say I forgot my password it
sends you and he now yeah so the and and
progressively it's getting more and more
where they don't know your passwords
you're not going to get an email that
says your password is 123456 and I can
get that instead you're gonna get an
email that says somebody has requested
that your password be changed click here
to change your password it's a it's a
way for them to authenticate that yeah
okay you're legitimately using this
email account well now the person the
hacker if you will or the compromising
user now has access to that email that
allows them to change your email
password they then delete that email and
you never know what happened they've got
access to your banking creepy scary
stuff I can talk about that for ages no
everyone in summary change your password
change your passwords make them strong
654321 a little bit different Oh changes
I didn't see that on the top 20 okay
finally our last news story of the
evening a battery-powered robotic arm
that boosts human strength has won the
2013 james dyson award the titan arm
designed by for mechanical engineering
students from the University of
Pennsylvania could help people with back
injuries rebuild and regain control of
their muscles also be used by people to
lift heavy objects as a part of their
work the prototype was produced for just
1,200 pounds slide it hahaha get it
pounds and you need an exoskeleton to
lift that
ah that's over text show not a comedy
show but um bom and this is the 50th of
a typical cost of a similar exoskeleton
currently on the market so it's
relatively cheap which is pretty wild
the current prototype is operated by a
separate joystick but future versions
may incorporate electromyography
technology which picks up electrical
signals produced by muscle tissues thus
allowing users to operate such
prosthetics without almost thinking
would that be neat very cool and and
from a medical standpoint wouldn't that
be amazing this is when a whole bunch of
ideas in my head that I ever ever
thought of I mean exoskeleton awesome
boxing hello but to be able to take
somebody who is may be unable to use
their upper body tap into their neural
pathways and be able to actually move in
a way that it I can lift a 100-pound
object because this thing is basically
doing it that's cool it is wild really
cool the last little bit here reads that
the team spent eight months creating the
exoskeleton and they will share a prize
of roughly at 30,000 pounds or forty
eight thousand dollars nice so is
fabulous and that is the category five
TV news room get the full stories at
category five dot TV / newsroom we've
got your viewer questions that tonight
and left it back into the mailbag I know
it's you've been sending them in live at
category 5 TV thank you everybody for
sending in your emails thank you very
much and let's kick this off with one
coming to us from bill 777 hey Bill um
dinner you had gave some previous advice
Robbie I did what that doesn't sound
like you yes it does um your advice just
gave me the same thing I had before but
you did show me I don't know what this
is referring to um where it is in
command I went home I might be referring
to another show like another episode I
can take a stab in it what's the email
um
so something about typing wine in the
terminal okay let's look at the subject
your question this is okay so you've got
wine I'm going to summarize here bill
because it's a little tough to to grab
it in context okay so may i yes you may
all right I'm gonna take the kressari
world despite me being a true fan I
don't watch every show and I can't
remember every viewer question okay so
you brought up terminar brought up
terminal and type in the command wine oh
okay using Linux went into terminal
typed in wine and got this error message
basically this is the wine 64 dash bin
helper package which does not provide
wine so unable to actually execute any
Windows applications on Windows but on
what on Linux pardon me using wine
because you actually didn't have wine
installed so let's just summarize I'm
going to summarize that error message
what that means when it says this is the
wine 64 dash bin helper package it's a
it's what's called a meta package it's
something that comes with your system at
64 bit to tell you yeah we actually
don't have a 64-bit wine package you're
going to need to do some work in order
to get it to to work under your 64-bit
architecture so it goes on in this error
message the following command should be
issued as root or via sudo in order to
enable multi arc which basically takes
your 64-bit linux system and allows it
to execute or run 32-bit code how cool
is that okay so then it goes into the
commands and this is what it says dpkg
space dash dash add dash architecture
space i386 how awesome is that it's
going to give you multi arc support I'm
going to type this into my terminal just
so that you can see what it actually is
to have what we're talking about so if
you know because you're using a modern
system it's 64 bits now you know if I do
you named ash a you'll see that I've got
an SMP colonel running 64-bit so if i
want multi arc support which is to say
i'm going to be able to install 32-bit
applications such as wine i need to do
what dpkg
dash add architecture actor pi 386 but
you'll notice that what it said is that
you need to run it as either route or
pseudo so you can do that or
alternatively and point Linux for
example you can run and other Linux as
well there's a root terminal in which
case you can leave off the sudo command
so when I do that it's gonna ask me for
my password and it's done that's all
there is to it so if you type that and
it says well unable to well that's
because I didn't put sudo that time see
gotcha but when I did sudo superuser do
it allowed it to go when I didn't it
gave me an error message similarly next
line apt-get update well I can't do that
because I'm not super user I have to go
sudo there we go beautiful the next
command that it's telling you to run is
how to install the I 386 or basically
the 32-bit version of wine so and I'm
just walking you through this so that
you can see what this error message so
to speak or what this output is actually
telling you to do so it says to go
apt-get install wine bin colon i386 but
we know we need to actually add sudo and
then when you hit enter I've already got
wine installed it will remove these the
package that is telling you this and it
will install the actual wine so what's
the rest of the email say here got you
pointed in the right direction got
things working and has watched all
episodes of category 5 technology TV
what true you can continue from from the
hyphen there um a few that were not
available he wasn't able to watch but
love the show and I have learned more in
the last six months then I have in the
last three years on my own about linux
you watched 321 episodes of category 5
in just six months Wow you need to buy a
t-shirt because you would I believe you
a true true fan thanks for watching the
show and I
Robbie was able to steer you a little
bit more don't borrow you know and
that's the interesting thing about the
show I think is that we are we're so
real here and we're just kind of hanging
out in yeah we could be sitting in our
living room and we're just sitting
across from each other and we're just
hanging out now you're asking for advice
and I'm doing my best to tell you what I
think then but really sometimes that's
what it is I'm just kind of staring you
in the right direction and hopefully
just threw that interaction you're able
to figure things out on your own and
that's a really fun thing about linux is
that you're able to play around you
might break things but it's easy to fix
and you can go back and you can revert
and have a lot of fun this one looks
like another fun one to today certainly
we can do that this comes to us from
christopher caustic hey reg twofer hi
Robbie I enjoy watching the show and
it's the only textual I know of that
isn't showing me the newest up this for
the latest stop that for an hour Utah
clinics and sometimes hit the PHP and
bash both scripting languages I enjoy
using was I correct in hearing a few
weeks ago that you were working on
developing a CMS true or false true ok I
will continue I am in the process of
developing an LMS basically it's a
heavily patched version of open atrium
which is built on Drupal aside from
patching the core where it was
unavoidable the majority of the
functionality that i'm adding is of
course from many custom modules sure
besides bringing all the ideas i have
into coding rally i'm also trying to
ajax the oh hey Jax above Jesus out of
it plus I'm creating a theme that mimics
tablets look and feel since fifty
percent of internet users only use
phones and tablets and not desktops
however it will only look and feel it
will only be look and feel for know and
not touch screen compatible hmm um de de
de de ok so if you are developing a CMS
I don't know how far along you are but
in my opinion I think LM esas aren't in
in more need than compared to CMS of
course that doesn't mean you shouldn't
build one I just feel that lms would get
more traction if you ever plans on
moving it into the public domain I
wonder if we're misunderstanding one
another because when you say LMS are you
talking about a learning
learning what is it called a learning
management system I believe versus a
course management system is that what
you think I mean when I say CMS because
when i say CMS i'm talking about a
content management system oh don't know
if if that's confusion or so what I'm
actually doing what I've developed what
is in active development and what is
functional on production servers right
now is I actually developed the
framework for a content management
system that evolves to particular needs
based on the modules that are created
for it so the framework is the
underlying content management system
technology which adapts technology is
based on jQuery and when you're talking
about Ajax that's the modern web so
there is a lot of Ajax involved in this
system it's very sleek it's very cool
but basically what I built is this
framework that you can stick on a server
and it's closed source I'm sorry and
that's just because it's you know I
don't through my employer right that's
what I do so it's the underlying
subsystem for this content management
system now the user never sees it as a
content management system they see it as
a custom-built application for their
business so we then take the modules
that we've created to lay on top of that
system it's almost like a almost like a
hypervisor hierarchy so all these
modules sit above that base system I'm
trying to say it in such a way that
makes any amount of sense and and those
modules create a very custom experience
so no one you know to users have the
same experience with the system the
interface is similar and you know I've
I'm not reinventing the wheel the whole
idea of having the framework is having
some some content that is
interchangeable between all different
users but the modules themselves create
a custom experience so so this system
what that means is that it has been
deployed for League management's league
management for sports leagues sports
leagues that have many many T
teams that need to be able to keep track
of all their games all their player
stats all of their schedules as well as
all the public end of things so all of
that stuff is built upon this system and
then taking that same subsystem and
deploying it for inventory management
and being able to control a warehouse
that has thousands of large units that
need to be sold so the inventory
management end of it allows the
administrators to control what you know
what inventory they have what customers
they have what the cost and sale price
is where they market this the the stuff
that they're selling automatically place
it on their own website all this stuff
to reduce redundancy so that they don't
have to enter things multiple times so
they're not entering it into three
different systems they're entering it
into the one system that I've created
and it automatically places it in all
these syndicated places right so that
those just two examples so it's a pretty
vast system and seems really complicated
but if you want to change the name to
lms go ahead call AMS for awesome
management's yeah this could require
some follow-up so let us know what you
think in a lot of what I think in my
head has to do with like it comes it
stems from category 5 and how I do
things yeah because a lot of what we do
as a distribution mechanism how do i get
the show from my machine here to your
system on demand two hours after the
show and it's available on RSS feeds and
it's available on youtube and it's
available on Miro internet TV and Roku
and blip TV and YouTube and all these
places it's all through this syndication
mindset and being able to distribute
data from one key location and place it
in many different places so my CMS it
basically builds upon that and and
he distributes data and content in a
same way so that tiffin I'd be usable by
not only the administrators but the na
smart Robbie good thinking that's real
world application yeah i just realized
though that i started that whole spiel
by saying I wasn't gonna reinvent the
wheel and I just realized that I just
did entirely well done I lied I did it
dog the wheel and I made a sphere whoo
and I connected it to a boat this is
just getting all crazy I do if question
question do we have time for one more
question oh yeah absolutely i think that
would be great all right you for sending
in your question we appreciate it god I
got quite a few I don't know if we'll
tackle them all today but we will try
okay Dennis Kelly in on race Dennis hey
I have it Oh texting Dennis Kelly in
real life he's real time whoa this is
gonna get crazy I'm he says I have a
parity disk that says it can't be found
any ideas what's the deal with that okay
so a parity disk and unraid that cannot
be found that would be a concern to me
in that if it literally can't be found
like is it is it blue and it says it
can't be found because that would tell
me that either you've had a failed disk
or perhaps it hasn't been built
correctly or maybe the the cable that
it's connected to is not the one that it
was connected to when it first was
connected and set up as a parity disk
I'm gonna bring up for you Dennis my
unraid server good idea which of course
has a good parody drive high hopes just
before the show so that I could say that
because I don't check it off and I I
tend to you know I'm pretty bad because
but I actually back up my own rate
server so the redundancy is only one
level of backup but so here my own raid
server you'll see that my parity disk is
green right and everything is good and
the one thing that it doesn't do is it
doesn't tell you how much is free and
the reason for that is that there's no
such thing as free space on a parody
drive every single sector is taken
alright so if that's what you're seeing
don't worry about that that's just the
impossibility of determining free space
on a parody drive because no such thing
exists if it's actually saying that the
drive is not found that probably tells
me that it has failed and when a drive
fails in an array that doesn't
necessarily don't get scared by that
word because you think failed hard drive
that means it's crashed know if i unplug
a hard drive its failed if i take a hard
drive from this cable and then I grab
this cable and I plug that cable in now
this cable has no hard drive on the hard
drive is fine but it is failed because
the array says the integrity of the
array as created has been degraded so
that drive is now a failed drive and now
you've got this other drive it's the
same drive but it's on a different
channel different cable so it doesn't
know what to do with it could be so many
different things could you if Dennis
Kelly if that doesn't help you at all if
none of that makes any sense to your
situation unraid is a web-based not
web-based but it is a I you know it's
running on a server that it can be
accessed through a web browser if you
want to open it up just open up port the
port 80 to your unraid server through
your firewall give me your IP address
privately and I'll connect in and take a
look for you the best thing so alright
thank you for that um we just have one
quick before you jump into the question
I'll just end that just by saying Dennis
Kelly make sure that your parity drive
you know answer this right away because
if your parody drive has failed if it's
crashed not having parody means if now
if any of your other drives fail you
will lose all the data that is stored on
that drive unraid school because unlike
a traditional raid if I have five drives
and one drive fails now parody says okay
I can rebuild that and with no problem
if your parody drive has failed and then
you crash a drive a normal array would
say okay the whole array is gone well
this one just says okay well that one
drive is gone so all the data that's on
that one drive is gone but the other
three are fine
but if you have parity all the data is
still okay okay okay make sure you get
parity okay good to know all right I'll
parity check last checked parody mine
found one error not a huge big deal okay
good stuff okay thanks man thank you
quick question coming to us from Dondre
from st. Louis know you had been
watching our video that we had done on
smart nav on YouTube after she found it
on an ALS forum so her father
unfortunately is not losing the ability
to use his hand and he loves spider
solitaire oh yes it's the only thing
he's been really able to do in recent
years of in his diagnosis so she's
wondering do you think it's possible for
him to still game with the smart nav we
couldn't touch on that and explain what
that is in a second but she just want
some advice about that and she's heard
of software before that you could use
eyes to control the mouse but he had
some issues with his eyes as well and he
probably would have control over his
neck for very much longer but it would
be a temporary fix to kind of
accommodate that so what are your
thoughts on that does does Dondre have
mentioned about motor control his hands
he's lost lose anything the ability to
use his hands day that's a tough
situation okay so you remember smart now
it's the the hat or the little pin you
know a little thing that you can put on
your glasses or whatever okay so with
smart nav Dondre you what you need to be
able to do is you need to be able to do
this this is the hard one watch what I'm
doing going down see that's putting a
lot of strain on the cervical area of my
neck so that can be really tough okay so
this and this and that maybe this would
work maybe if the monitor was up high
and smart nav was up high then there
wouldn't be any pressure on the cervix
then you might do okay if you can do
this if you're your father can do that
but it's it's hard to say you know in it
and
I don't know what to what to really
suggest how was how was your father's
verbal ability can you control with your
mouth there are devices that can
actually be placed in your mouth and you
can control it with just moving your
tongue or whatever or verbally actually
speaking into a microphone and
controlling hmm pips things that you
know don't require a lot of motor
control the ability to take a joystick
and just move it like this and be able
to control like that it doesn't take a
lot of movement so you don't really need
a lot of movement that's why you see a
lot of you know even wheelchairs with
with with people that are even
quadriplegic they're still able to
maneuver enough to use the motorized
controls of the joystick in some
instances so there are I don't know what
else to tell you it's if you can't get
that movement if you can't get that
movement then smart nav is not going to
work for you if there's a lot of pain in
the neck then that may not work but it
doesn't require a lot of movement at it
especially with the hat right the hat
was extended out here so you you
consider a little bit of movement and
the Hat has moved quite a bit right with
the dot that you put on your glasses
you'd have to move quite a bit more to
get that same amount of movement on the
on the mouse so and then it just takes
training yourself to be able to learn
how to use it so definitely a cool
device definitely great for
accessibility but you do require some
mobility in your head basically to be
able to control that device you can go
to search category 5 TV type in smart
nav if you'd like to know more about
what what it is that we're discussing
what taught what particular device that
is it's an accessibility piece of
hardware that allows you to control your
computer's mouse just by moving your
head and it's very cool stuff Dondre let
us know what you decide and if there's
anything else we can do for you please
let us know ok
everybody thank you so much for being
here this week with us on category 5
technology TV don't forget to check out
cap five TV / studio and you'll be able
to support us through a monetary
donation toward our studio D build all
the information is there and you can
read up on and watch the videos that are
there go to the updates tab and learn
about some of the exciting things that
are coming and seeing more behind the
scenes video also next week you're going
to be back yeah it's a Hillary festival
a Hillary festival and we're going to be
giving away those batteries from eco
alkalines cat five dot TV / eco so
exciting so don't forget to cast your
ballots okay folks it's been a slice
everyone will see you soon have a
fantastic week thanks he'll see ya we
hope you enjoyed the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
will see you next time thanks for tuning
in
