here we are and here are the stories
were covering this week in the category
5 TV news facebook has introduced a new
service to help users recover lost
passwords audio-based packs are becoming
more of a fear as scientists revealed
potential uses a new pair of analyst
electronic glasses auto focus on what
you're looking at eight years of
evidence have been lost by Texas police
thanks to ransomware and see a great
deal on the black phone to on eBay it's
quite likely a counterfeit and will be
bricked by the manufacturer these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere now here's another great way
you can support the shows you love for
the category 5 TV network by shopping
gear back that's right Jeff cat5 TV /
gearbest it's an online store for the
geek streak in you or the loved ones
well of course I mean especially your
loved ones right because cat 5 gb /
gearbest quite frankly has all of the
greatest tech gifts that you could ever
hope for at rock bottom prices Suzanne
cell phones you bet you cap 5gb slash
gear vest has a wide assortment of
unlocked android cell phones and tablets
global compute consumer electronics
those like a cricket absolutely from
high-tech watches to action cameras
headphones even virtual reality headsets
cat5 TV / gear bats have you covered
they literally have it all Jeff
literally really it's like a superstore
right from the comfort of your own share
at your computer through the interweb
yeah I there's no way they have it all
true it's just a bunch of random
electronic technique what about close
yep both men and women fashionable
apparel at rock bottom super duper
prices kind of like this well look at
this coat what do you think it's a
slimming mock leather jacket I love it
it's available for less than thirty
dollars plus free shipping a cat5 da TV
/ gear best yeah all right the cata got
me there Wow any other questions for me
jack now that the winter is past flying
season do they have any good deals and
say to encompass old my goodness well
check this out dude they have everything
check out over 500 various drums and not
only that they're available mark down by
about thirty two up to sixty-three
percent off the regular price love it
what's website again while you're going
to find gearbest on our partners pages
for any of your favorite category five
TV shows like new every day category
five technology TV the pixel shadow but
of course if you want to shop absolutely
right now and you want to go straight to
the site all you have to do is visit cat
five dot TV / gearbest is that's using
text five dot TV / gear back that's
right happy shopping I'm Sasha's
hermanus and here the top stories for
the week of February's first 2007
students facebook has unveiled a new
service that remedy is one of the
biggest headaches facing online newsers
today the forgotten password safechuck
now offers a service that allows users
who lose their github login credentials
to securely regain access to their
accounts the process takes only seconds
and uses a handful of clicks over
encrypted HTTPS https web links to set
it up facebook users create a github
recovery token in advance and save it
with their Facebook accounts in the
event they lose their get have login
credentials they can really eat to
Facebook and request the tokens be sent
to github
with a time stamp signature the token is
encrypted so Facebook can't read any of
the personal information it stores after
the request is sent the github account
is restored with the exception of
Facebook's assertion that the person
recovering the github account is the
same person who saves the token facebook
and github don't share any personal
information about the user the service
is designed to eliminate the hassle and
significant and security found in most
account recovery systems that exist now
one common recovery method involves
answering security questions many of the
questions for instance what is your
favorite sport and what is your favorite
pizza topping is asked by united
airlines and they're easily guessed that
leaves people susceptible to account
takeovers other methods such as
delivering security tokens by email or
SMS text message lack the kind of
end-to-end encryption that's
increasingly expected for secure
communications unlike a compromised
email account which can often be used to
gain access to dozens of online accounts
controlled by the owner the Facebook
service can be rate limited in the event
of facebook account was hijacked the
rate limiting can be used to prevent an
attacker from accessing the third party
accounts all at once that could feature
that feature could prove useful in the
future should disturb should the service
be adopted by a large number of other
third-party services for now the service
is available only for github but
Facebook hopes other third-party search
sites will start using it eventually
that's cool I I could probably use a
little help or security in the back of
my mind that if I forget my password
somebody's got my back that's we have a
notepad though for I sorta have a
post-it note in my wallet that's the key
on the bottom of your monitor yes little
boy a fellow to my wallet won tonight's
like a literally like it was like I had
dropped like some precious thing I was
like oh my password thing I goodness
yeah
Carrie yikes did you steal my stuff you
got all my stuff all right on episode 4
39 Jeff unveiled a potential half on
google now sorry I asked the pauses for
a second Robbie mm-hmm did you hear that
ok so I have anything I don't know what
you're referring to I don't know stats
remember my google map sorry that you
have like you see this once a week I was
like that I remember that you remember
the story progeria Volgograd right man
and I was like you're the one who does
the news and it was check that's right
jeff had the news that week night just
because I take for granted that you are
here every week for the news now right
except for episode 4 39 we're young
unveil the potential hack not me I
didn't know I can't afford another
broccoli chocolate I did that news we
did do that look this one I did not do
scientists are now claiming that not
only can google now be compromised but
machine learning interfaces like
Amazon's Alexa can easily be hacked
through bogus voice commands we talked
about Alexa buying doll houses and joke
that we could say something on the show
to command your Amazon echo to order
products from our store but this is no
laughing matter researchers say it's not
an unlikely scenario they say not only
can attackers issue mal audio voice
commands to any AI listening device that
is an audible range but they can do it
using hidden voice commands those are
commands that might not even be noticed
by the user Nicholas a Carly me and pray
touch Mercia of universe of University
of California Berkeley who wrote a new
paper on the subject along with some
other academics don't specifically
target or mention Amazon's Alexa but
they do claim their test attacks work
against google now speech recognition
system and that their voice commands are
likely to work with any modern voice
recognition system that would include
smartphone
we show that adversaries with
significant knowledge of the speech
recognition system can construct hidden
voice commands they write in their
papers and they could be command that
humans cannot understand at all the
voice channel is the vector for attack
carlini recently said that one big
potential problem area could be in the
texting of premium SMS numbers he
explains at the command ok Google now
text and then a number followed by a
special rate number could get costly for
the interface owner he says that this
could become an even bigger near future
problem as AI banking becomes prevalent
an example could be ok Google now hey
sasha is one hundred dollars hahaha
carlini says the problem arises not in
an individual spoofing the voice
recognition such as a thief walking by
and spouting a command in that case
device honor could simply cancel a
command the problem is in professional
hacking cases where the sounds that are
created seem like noise to the human ear
but our speech for the device the device
here's the garbage as real commands and
the device owner isn't aware of the
attack results could be drastic posting
a user's location on Twitter for example
could be performed by the hack that
could conceivably be a serious as the
loss of money for some opening a web
page load of malware is another example
of researchers use if you'd like to hear
an audio sample of what this type of
attack might sound like check out the
category 5 TV newsroom episode 4 39
which was Jes question do we have to
worry about the sample now like the
samples got to make you donate no yeah
just turn off ok Google Google now when
when you're watching it it is actually
it's very scary because really if you're
walking around with say your smartphone
I people do it all the time oh yeah oh
yeah sure um how would you know because
you walk past things that are noisy and
you just tune them out it's not like you
hear acutely everything right yeah and I
wonder how but I wonder
how much noise can be like ambient noise
can be in the room or whatever because
you think about a busy like a merchant
or something where you know there is
advertising and things though there are
audio ads what's to stop them from
placing something seemingly benign but
actually you know tricking your phone
into doing so well it's really
interesting because like at first I
thought because I know I'm an Apple user
I'm sorry guys I know android get ours
out there um but I know it iOS whenever
you use Siri you can calibrate your
voice so it's only like you say okay so
it only recognizes you essentially yeah
so then you say hey Siri so many shoots
sorry that it's actually on work what do
we job is put a hundred dollars into our
account hey Sasha one hundred dollars
great not again no but really so I'm
like I'm wondering if that's another way
to combat that so like if you add more
um like just because again voice
technology voice-activated technology is
becoming so prevalent in our lives so
and there's all these new little
activities that hackers can do so again
if you're listening to the radio or a
podcast and have this little garbled
audio come in like if there's an easy
way to just add another layer of voice
security by when we dressed in these
like your meal how accurate can that be
though what did I not imitate voices
very easily i would say well yeah you
see all these imitators like online and
on youtube and so what is it in the
intonation is it in the pronunciation
including the accent exactly because
it's just waveform think about it yeah
wait yeah I'm going to like bright side
this up a little bit I feel like I will
I would like there to be an automatic
hack in places like movie theaters or
like the clinic I working where there's
a no cell phone policy we're just
automatically plays every once in a
while like an okay Google now shut off
my phone and hey there you go everybody
in this in the theater your phone oh
cool airplane mode on
be good in hospitals and airplanes and
such airplanes right or just comes up
but I'll claim yeah that the phone is
going to interfere I don't know I
superbly that gas station your phone
can't be on in a gas station or you
can't be on your phone in a gas station
I don't know my chronic device it's like
static yeah yeah not good with you not
really all right they're not very pretty
but prototype I glasses from University
of Utah students could make progressive
lenses obsolete for older people using
electronically activated lenses and
infrared distance meters they can focus
automatically on whatever you're looking
at whether it's far or close up once
perfected the device could eliminate the
need for multiple pairs of reading
glasses I'm sorry what is all of a
sudden near it just happened I couldn't
like a rover would wear these watch this
amazing just can convert this ok Aug
related far or nearsightedness happens
with the lenses in your I can no longer
change focus between objects this is
known as presbyopia cuz I'm impressed
that is so smart o'clock so Robbie said
that he actually took that out of this
great i actually did when i was writing
the story i remove that from the story
because i thought oh that's a hard one
to pronounce that it that's because she
knew showing off oh yeah yes as a result
many people between their forties and
fifties have to wear progressive lens I
glasses divided into small focal zones
depending on object distance one company
called oaths are called deep optics has
pursued an auto focusing solution using
see through liquid liquid liquid crystal
lenses but is still working on a
practical prototype Google is over
working on an autofocus contact lens
with startup Novartis but recently said
that it wouldn't be testing them anytime
soon to make the lenses adjustable the
University of Utah team placed glycerin
a thick clear liquid within
membranes on the front and back the
chunky frame meanwhile holds electronics
a battery and an infrared distance meter
when you look at something the meter
gauges the distance and sends a signal
to the mechanical actuator on the rear
membrane within 14 milliseconds which is
actually quite quick it switches focus
from one object to another giving you
clear vision without the need to look up
or down the next part of the story is my
favorite users can upload their
prescriptions to the glasses by pairing
them with a smartphone over Bluetooth
what that means that in theory you could
keep the same pair of glasses forever
even if your eyesight changes yeah my
budget no no these are actually a
thousand-dollar classroom guaranteed
never have to buy again you would need
to recharge them like a smartphone but
that could be less of a hassle than
picking packing multiple pairs around
that's true yeah you know aight i like
the idea you just have to take like one
pair of glasses clearly the ones the
prototype glasses are not really my
style but am I really find a pair of
glasses those are a little thick rimmed
for that to the current prototype debut
at CES earlier this month the goal now
is to make the whole package smaller and
lighter the via some serious
miniaturization the team has created a
startup company to commercialize the
smart glasses and hopefully get them on
the market in as little as three years
that should be enough time before my
eyesight actually starts to fail due to
age so this could be a real thing for me
yeah ok on to some more serious news
police in Texas have lost evidence going
back eight years in a ransomware attack
cockrell hill texas has a population of
just over 4,000 and their police force
has lost eight years of evidence when a
departmental server was compromised by
ransomware in a public statement the
department said the malware had been
introduced to the department systems
through email specifically arrived from
a clone email address imitating a
department issued email address
and after taking root requested for
bitcoin and ransom worth about three
thousand six hundred dollars today or
nearly four thousand dollars of food
department puts it it was at this point
that their backup procedures were tested
and found to have failed to account for
the mischief when the recovery was
attempted they realized they had only
managed to backup the encrypted files
the police then spoke to the policeman
spoke to the FBI and upon consultation
with them it was determined that there
was no guarantee that the decryption
file would actually be provided
therefore the decision was made not to
go forward with the Bitcoin transfer and
to simply isolate and wipe the virus
from the server role heartbreaking
heartbreaking does that mean that the
people in that town now that there is no
evidence you'd like a jail free card no
I don't know that what happened at this
point is weird because you think that
they were like separated from a
networked way I wouldn't mind files like
that to be able to be accessible over a
network that's the thing I'd wanted I
want like a defined wall like a plug
well you would think but in a small town
how many was it forward with that 4,000
people this is very small town folks so
yeah you think about that and figure
they probably don't have air gap systems
backing up their data and things like
like just plain and simple so what it
boils down to is understanding how these
kinds of ransomware can infiltrate not
only your main files but your backup so
what it sounds like to me is that you
know they've been smart they've got a
backup they've got a drive connected to
the server that every day backs up any
files right so what happens when that
server then gets infected with malware
that encrypts the files is the backup
that day then over writes all the files
on the back up with the encrypted
version right so the two things that you
can really do in a not not in that
situation but to prevent that situation
for your business for your home is one
rotate your drives always take that
drive unplug it plug in the next drive
and allow that back up to only overwrite
this drive
and once you confirm that everything's
cool hunky-dory for the next time you're
going to switch then you can switch your
drives back so you've always got a drive
that is you know say a week old or
something like that you can take off
site and a safe it's air gap I mean and
as long you can find it out that there
is a problem within that time frame
you're okay yeah yeah but better than
that still is to set up what I call an
untouchable backup and what that is is
something that is it's connected or it's
accessible but it is not acceptable by a
virus or a network computer so how would
you do that well there's a couple
different ways first of all there's
cloud storage that will keep incremental
backups in such a way that you can go
back in time okay there are other
solutions such as our disk backup which
runs on linux server and we'll create a
backup and then increment it every day
and it only saves the bit for bit
changes that have occurred since the
last backup so if something happened
today that encrypted all my files and
then my art if backup happened it would
write to the dr just those changes so
then i could say to our tiff backup ok
restore from yesterday's backup oh and
it will discard all those changes and
give me back my file that's interesting
that's and that kind of thing is very
helpful as well certainly hope that that
small town in Texas is watching the show
right now too late for you I'm sorry oh
but it's not too late for you and that's
why we wanted to just take a moment and
explain a couple of ways that you can
prevent this kind of thing and you can't
you can't say to them oh you did a bad
job because this is fairly typical
especially of a small like this is 4,000
people in the entire community and you
hear about much much larger companies
that are getting hacked by this type of
corporations and everything right and
governments and things like that to
every install is scary thing not gonna
let grants transit systems and exactly
oh it's scary stuff so that's how to
keep yourself protected all right
another one the makers of the black
phone to warn would-be customers to stay
away from ebay
silent circle the company behind the
privacy focus smartphone with encrypted
voice services issued an alert about
purchasing devices from authorized
resellers now now that alert has turned
into action with the latest update to
silent OS the android based operating
system built for the black phone silent
OS 3.8 will disable phones that were not
purchased from silent circle's approved
approved channels silo servo claims the
phone to be counterfeit these knockoffs
could be manufactured by the company's
contract manufacturer beyond silent
circle's production runs or by another
manufacturer who has cloned the device
numerous sellers on ebay are offering
new and real black phone to devices for
less than silent circle's authorized
sellers in some cases the difference in
prices over one hundred dollars of
course they are not new and they're not
real these phones are sold without a
license to to use the service embedded
in the silent OS while silent circle's
cell phones directly in North America it
sells through partners in Europe the
Middle East Africa and Asia in a
statement silent circle said it's
imperative for custom for consumers and
companies to work directly with
authorized sales partners when
purchasing the black phone too we invite
people to check with us prior to
purchasing so that we can help them be
sure they are securing an authorized
phone to ensure they get the software
and services that come with it you know
they're not alone we hear about iphones
as another one that are being sold as
counterfeit oh yeah truth be told i mean
people are really susceptible to this
because they they are really just
looking for like a hot deal right state
and as a Boomer yeah yeah it's like some
of these counterfeit things like even
counterfeit purses and watches and you
know my phones and everything they look
like the real thing and they could be
even manufactured at the same sort of
company yeah and you think about their
factories are hired to manufacture these
devices so they signed contracts would
say you know it's non-disclosure and
we're not going to do any of that but
they do right and so it may be an exact
duplicate or they may have used some
knockoff parts to keep the costs down
and then they've created something very
very similar it looks the same it
behaves the same yeah it's not the same
thing what actually leads me to worry
that this is this bricking update yeah
what if its aggressive right what if
it's really going to target people who
actually think they have the real thing
they're going to learn in the job
because kind of Enoch shot exactly cuz
they're like oh yeah no problem this is
doesn't affect me I have a legit one not
in any way thinking that their phone is
all of a sudden going to and you think
that's a bad thing for a manufacturer to
do to brick intentionally users phones
but remember samsung phones exploded
yeah exactly what were called this is a
really aggressive move but it's it's a
smart move at this point I guess because
it's it's a way for them to stop this
kind of counterfeiting at its current
level but it's also alerting those
manufacturers to their capability of
doing this so they can then I would
think would work around it oh yeah
mature interracial well this truth is
what would happen to this style of your
whole would happen to their name if all
of these counterfeit phones all of a
sudden were used for some you know bad
reason oh sure voice calling yeah
exactly it's a smart move it just I
gratis yeah it's a hard time because
like a phone as a phone and you think
that the software that's on it is the
phone right if I bought a computer that
had microsoft windows on it and found
out or didn't find out that it was
actually pirated the copy of windows and
microsoft pushed out an update that
killed my computer bricked it in the
case of a phone it may be really really
difficult to get it up and running again
oh yeah you know is it fair for a
software vendor to do that in this case
a hardware vendor yeah Carson white
attached to my phone if all of a sudden
I ran a software update that rendered it
oh yeah useless like I literally use my
phone for everything okies yeah i would
get everyone Vinnie huh we go now if we
bought this phone we're obviously
privacy and security minded so we want
to get our latest updates we want to be
updating our phone and making sure we
get the latest security patches what's
this going to do to my mindset if I
think might not be safe for me to update
I certainly hope that there's a warning
before the update that says your phone
counterfeit yeah contact to make sure
that this is an authorized version of
the phone before this update right maybe
yeah as then at least say if it isn't
right maybe you can transfer your you
could buy a real phone a alter eyes
phone and then transfer the any contacts
and data there you go before doing the
update that's what that's what call the
company okay thanks for watching the
category 5 TV news room don't forget to
Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website for the category 5 TV
newsrooms I'm statue de mayo
[Music]
you
