welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 547 and this week
we at well we're celebrating pi week
we'll call it but pi day was Wednesday
and so we are celebrating by showing you
some of the cool projects that you can
do with a Raspberry Pi we've also got a
huge announcement from the Raspberry Pi
foundation want to stick around if
you're a PI fan or if you're just
thinking okay maybe maybe I want to buy
a Raspberry Pi stick around we've got
some news for him this is category 5
technology TV
[Music]
[Applause]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams with
Telestream Wirecast and nimble streamer
tune in every week on roku Kodi Plex and
other HLS video players for local show
times visit category 5 TV category 5 TV
is a member of the tech podcast network
if it's tech gets here cat 5 dot TV
slash TPM and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 dot TV slash ia IB welcome to category
five technology TV I'm Jeff Weston I'm
Robbie
nice to see you folks hope you're having
a great week lots of exciting things
today oh it's very exciting indeed oh
yeah I mean we know what's coming up but
we're not telling you it's a surprise
it's true so how's your week my week has
been amazing so far yeah have you
recovered from Friday night uh I I
believe I have recovered from Friday
night truth be told I I've kind of
caught the bug I found yes I find myself
sitting in front of discord waiting for
a rain dance who aren't aware completely
separate from category five technology
TV Jeff and I were here in the studio
and we were participating in what was
called a turtle typhoon and what that is
is turtle coin which we've shown on the
show here a cryptocurrency that's on the
up-and-up and we had a lot of fun I mean
there was lost there was over was it
over a million turtle coins even more
than that I think it got close to two
million if I remember so that given away
absolutely free to the participants in
the in the discord so it was a lot of
fun now again not not directly
associated with category five but if you
are interested in that I did post the
video on our YouTube channel so you can
go check that out if you want to learn
more about cryptocurrency turtle coin in
particular we happen to cover a lot on
last week's episode yeah exactly so we
talked about it from our perspective
here at the studio but then to actually
see it in action is what was happening
that's fun so long night it was a lot of
fun yes exciting news for you and you
and me I love your wonderful sweater
thank you
I basically photocopied the the wall and
stuck it on my chest now that's not the
exciting news the exciting nudist news
is that for a limited time we do have
some apparel
so check out cat5 TV slash shirts just
like that now it's a way that you can
support the shows that you love here at
category 5 at that at that website it's
a teespring campaign and that basically
how that works is folks like you who
love the show and want to support us but
also want to Don awesome apparel you can
get on there and you can purchase a
shirt a t-shirt or a sweatshirt and and
you'll be supporting category 5 TV
you'll be supporting what we do here and
it's a limited time run it's a chance
for you to get some some merch which we
don't always do like there's not the
wise yeah it has I can't believe our
last shirt campaign with t spring 2014
it's big it's 2037 now as we brought so
you know if you if you wonder how
limited-edition is this stuff well you
could be looking for years in the future
but yeah this shirt comes from there so
I got this during the 2014 run you can
see it obviously has has continued yeah
- like it hasn't faded it hasn't held up
got all nasty and the sweaters I was
noticing on the teespring campaign the
the sweatshirts are relatively expensive
and I and I started looking around and I
realize that they're actually cheaper
than going into the stores our friend
Heather really brown showed me some
local stores that are selling
sweatshirts and it's unbelievable how
much it costs to buy a sweatshirt while
so but these ones are nice and thick and
warm these are like campfire sweatshirt
yes yeah
comfy cozy goodies I should wear the
hoodie all night long what I feel like
there's a wrap coming oh and that'd be
if only I was prepared
but head on over to cap five dot TV
slash shirts and you can support that
campaign be a part of it
and incidentally if you send us a
picture of yourself or a loved one or
whoever that you've purchased it for if
you send a picture of y'all wearing our
t-shirts or whatever it is that you buy
then we will post it on the show we will
give you a shout out live on the air
you're 10 seconds of fame it's good
times there you go
good times alright so we've also been
giving away a copy of debt effect to VR
I've been doing that for a while we
still have copies to hit to give out
unbelievable I know good on them for
sending out all these free copies for
you oh they they hooked us up huge so
you don't want to miss out so check it
out it's really really easy to do you
load up your email whatever you use push
the email button that's right and then
you want to send us an email with how
you're watching category 5 what you
what's your system like are you watching
in a Roku are you doing on YouTube is
your Kodi how do you watch this show
maybe you're on TV and you're and you're
watching us through your cable network
let us know and we'll put you in for
winning Dead Effect 2 VR I'm picturing a
projector oh yeah pointed at the clouds
with category 5 up on the clouds select
about so maybe that's how you're
watching maybe that's how you're
watching I like that just category 5
right there in the clouds and every time
that's called we answer a tech question
there you go yeah never sleep don't miss
out on that so it goes to contest at
category 5 TV that's the email I just
you want to send it to nice and simple
yeah we've got to take a really quick
break it is well this week we're
celebrating pi day yes we're gonna tell
you what that's all about and we've got
some exciting news from the Raspberry Pi
foundation coming right out don't go
anywhere
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you you're terrible actor what does
where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay are you building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash DreamHost
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five TV slash dream
host welcome back this is category five
technology TV so glad to have you here
joining us an exciting exciting episode
it's a great week I love the Raspberry
Pi no we do and I every year I look
forward to this week because it's got pi
day well what happens when pi day falls
on a Wednesday we've got a feature it
now of course this week is the
celebration of pi day which if you're
not familiar with that Wednesday was
March 14th right which is 3.14 in the
geeky system yes so 3.14 it's like may
the 4th be with you you know we've we've
kind of thing as geekdom has claimed
days for its own and 3.14 is one of
those so this week we celebrate pi day
yes and if you don't know what pi is
it's a mathematical equation a delicious
circle it's true but it is a number that
does not end it's a mathematical
equation that is and I was this song
got stuck in my head Jeff thank you for
that oh yes good job
yes that's gonna be stuck in my head oh
you are horrible what have you done all
right
didn't you just say no we won for I was
reading this week that pie is now up to
twenty two trillion characters long are
they still hashing this they're still
Hasek it out oh man twenty two trillion
characters long and they say the hash
power of the cryptocurrency Network get
the blockchain working on figuring out
pi and see when this crazy thing will
ever end where do you even store that
long of a number I have no clue but I
was who's reading it going if they ever
get to the end of pi the world is
probably gonna crash because people are
gonna display it's gonna ruin everything
they know everything will just fail
that's right
but Pi in the respect that we're
discussing it tonight has to do with the
Raspberry Pi the microcomputer that fits
in the palm of your hand and we've got
an announcement for you this week being
pi day week we're gonna call it because
we don't know when you're watching this
whether it be this week or next or
whatever but the week that we are
broadcasting is pi week mm-hmm there you
go
and the Raspberry Pi foundation has
chosen this week to divulge the pi3
model b+ so could we say that this is
going to be a PI three killer
I think we can safely say that now we
finally have an undisputed pi three
killer well yeah that even the Raspberry
Pi fan base cannot disagree with us
can't hate on us and can't give us the
thumbs down so hey you see that button
down there give us a thumbs up that's
how it goes so what makes it so special
well first of all we've been waiting for
a more powerful Raspberry Pi yes
microcomputer now 1.4 gigahertz 64-bit
processor now at 1.4 it was previously
1.2 so what happens is it's gonna run at
1.4 gigahertz and then as it gets hot
it's going to downscale to 1.2 so okay
the throttled cpu is as fast as the
fastest the CPU would ever be on a on a
previous generation Raspberry Pi 3 ok a
couple of other key points here with the
Raspberry Pi 3 model B plus 1 and this
is probably I should save the best for
last but I got it I gotta tell you
Gigabit Ethernet finally we've got
Gigabit Ethernet it's like we have
stepped into 1997 pocket-sized computers
with gigabit ethernet now all of a
sudden we've been talking about things
like Plex PI which we're gonna bring up
tonight and streaming video over our
network and some people have said well
I've been trying to use Plex PI with the
Wi-Fi and the Raspberry Pi why isn't it
working don't even go there ok because
the Wi-Fi on these things traditionally
sucks yes and even if it was great Wi-Fi
the Wi-Fi just the standard itself is
too slow for what you want Plex PI to be
able to do that's right so you plug in
an Ethernet cable but the Raspberry Pi 3
and previous generations we're only a
hundred megabits per second so now you
throw a gigabit which is a thousand
megabits per second in there and you've
got a low speed well technically it's
about three times the speed I don't know
how that math happens I think because
you don't truly get a thousand megabits
per second but so you're gonna get at
least like three times the speed out of
the Ethernet so when you plug in your
Plex PI server or whatever it is you're
doing with your Raspberry Pi 3 the B+ is
going to give you much better
performance that I'm excited about now
they've also improved the Wi-Fi on it I
didn't have they've gone to 5g 5 G so
you're looking at much faster Wi-Fi I'm
not sure how this is going to play out
because with my Raspberry Pi 3 I
I don't know that speed is the issue
versus reception right I have trouble
getting a good solid Wi-Fi connection
that doesn't drop yes yeah and I'm very
very close to the router so I don't like
that so with 5g traditionally anyways
your
get less coverage that's correct but
better speed mm-hmm so how is this going
to impact performance I can't really be
sure yet until we've got our hands on
one of them we can take a look and give
it a try but theoretically we're gonna
get better speed out of the Wi-Fi as
well yes now the exciting thing about
this is even though that they've
announced it this week it's probably
gonna take a little bit before we start
seeing it for purchase yeah well it is
available to buy right technically but I
think stock is going traditionally with
raspberry pi it is and and maybe this is
a good chance to remind those who were
hating on the Odroid when they were sold
out and then they brought new stock to
Amazon and then they sold out again when
when a new raspberry pi comes out
they've got a manufacturer all these
boards and they've got to get them into
the stores they've got to get them
available on other various Amazons and
so they are available technically but
you're probably not gonna actually have
access to them for a little while we'll
see kind of how that plays out if you do
get your hands on one though within the
next couple of weeks you are one of the
the lucky few and we want to hear all
about it
mm-hmm all right so what are we talking
about pi should I take a look at the
Raspberry Pi 3 b-plus sure website so
okay head on over to Raspberry Pi organ
we're gonna do a lot of stuff on our on
our computer here tonight the raspberry
so one of the key things with the B+ is
that they are intending to sell it for
the same price as the B the Raspberry Pi
3 so now they say $35 we live here in
Canada I wish that we could get that
kind of a deal y'all Americans are
saving some money we pay a fair bit more
than that up here yes so we talked about
oh and it looks like we've got 802 11
and see that's good Bluetooth 4.2 Oh
beautiful
so we may have good good Wi-Fi after all
that's good here's another exciting
thing power over ethernet that's
something that Raspberry Pi has been
lacking mm-hmm okay power over ethernet
means you don't have to have separate
power you can actually power the device
from your router yes so you plug in the
ethernet cable and it will get its power
from the ethernet now there's a caveat
okay one power over ethernet is not yet
available
is coming soon for the pi3 b+ - it
requires a separate hat which is an
accessory component that you add to the
board so there's probably some cost
involved in that and three that board
requires non passive cooling so you're
looking at adding a moving fan to your
Raspberry Pi rig so it's not it's no
longer gonna fit into the Raspberry Pi
case I'm sure cases are gonna come out
with the hat in mind but you do have to
buy that separately and it's not
currently available so that said I
wanted to draw your attention to
something that I've been looking at and
I actually ordered yesterday not knowing
that this was coming out when I look at
NEMS Nagios Enterprise management's
monitoring server which is NEMS
linux.com I was looking for an ability
to do power over ethernet so I don't
have to have separate power and there is
in fact this $10 dongle that you can get
for your Raspberry Pi oh and it turns
Power over Ethernet into Ethernet and
five volt and this is 2.4 amp so you've
got more than enough power here to power
a Raspberry Pi or in the screenshots
that shows that running their Raspberry
Pi with the with the screen and so power
over ethernet is in fact available for
the older generation raspberry PI's oh
that's awesome
and it's super cheap ten dollars and 89
cents u.s. so I picked up one of those
it's on its way and I'll have that soon
so you may not have to buy that
Raspberry Pi hat with the fan and
everything else
this is 2.4 amp I believe the Raspberry
Pi 3 B+ is going to require 2.5 so I'm
not sure if this adapter I'm not sure
yet if this adapter will support the the
B+ the time will tell as we get those in
and start doing some testing right ok so
power over ethernet is definitely
something that's going to be helpful
especially if you're using raspberry
PI's in a server environment server
rooms like if you're using them's Linux
for example that's fantastic
if you're using it for any anything like
plex Pi is another example where hey you
just it just cuts down on the cable
clutter I guess
what else have we got oh goodness
I'm just looking over the list here
folks USB mass-storage booting so that
means we no longer have to hack up the
SD card to boot from the SD card and
then from the USB Drive you'll be able
to boots directly from a USB Drive so
which is very nice very nice indeed
because like the SD cards are not very
reliable if if your Raspberry Pi server
system ever fails it's most likely the
the SD card that's going to be the one
that failed so by taking that off of
there now I'd like to see if you can
boot without an SD card oh that so
that's a great upgrade it's got improved
thermal management it's overclockable
and finally we're starting to see some
thermal management on the Raspberry Pi 3
the the original 3 didn't really have a
lot of settings so right I'm looking
forward to seeing what RasPi config
introduces for this particular board so
all in all a great step up for Raspberry
Pi users something that we can upgrade
to of course everything's still backward
compatible so as new software comes out
and everything you don't have to rush
out and buy the latest and greatest but
if you want those extra features or
because the price is still the same
crappy erratically right then you you
can buy the upgraded version next time
you go around I mean I I I have
raspberry PI's all around I've got three
or four of them hooked up at home at all
times extras that I have laying around
that I use for various projects and
everything else so but I'm excited
mostly I think about the Gigabit
Ethernet yes did we talk about
availability yes we did ok yes as we
celebrate Pi Day this week I wanted to
kind of go over some of the project
ideas that we've had and some of the the
things that you can do with this little
itty-bitty micro computer ok because the
the projects that you can do with this
are endless oh yeah and that's why it
has such a following that's why it's
such an exciting project the Raspberry
Pi project itself and why so many people
are on that bandwagon and why so many
people
have them first of all episodes 544 and
545 of category 5 technology TV you know
those ones because it just happened two
weeks ago and the week before that we
talked about Plex pie yes Lex pie allows
you to turn your Raspberry Pi 3 into a
plex media server and by doing that
you're able to stream your media and
again if you can put a Gigabit Ethernet
in there you're gonna get better
performance out of that altogether
hmm so I'm excited to see how that goes
and Plex pie has been doing very very
well since we introduced it I love plex
pie head on over to our website it's
category 5 dot TV and I'd like to show
you a couple of features here that are
going to be helpful for you if you hit
search and just type in Raspberry Pi
you're gonna get a list of all the
episodes where we have thought to notate
it as pertaining to the Raspberry Pi ok
so you can find all that now if you're
looking for covered it a lot oh yeah
we've covered a lot there's four pages
of it so there's certainly a lot of
content with regards to Raspberry Pi but
I'm talking about episodes 544 and 545
so what you do is you can go to shows
category 5 technology TV full episodes
and you need to find the season I know
that those ones are in season 11 so you
just kind of scroll down and it says
episode 545 so that is one of the
episodes that we're recommending that
you check out using Plex PI as a
personal media server the one before
that is episode 544 Plex on a Raspberry
Pi 3 so I'm going to show you a little
hack here to save you having to try to
find episodes on our website because as
we tell you about these projects some of
them may make you go oh I'd love to try
that on my Raspberry Pi but then you've
got to go through 11 seasons worth of
video to try to find it no I'm gonna
make it a little simpler obviously you
can use the search tool but if you click
on any one of our videos and this is
remember I'm looking at category 5
technology TV so not one of the other
shows ok and what you'll notice is that
up in the address bar we're at category
5 TV slash shows slash Technology slash
episode slash
5:45 so if I change that number 5:45 to
any other number it's going to play that
episode instead okay okay so as I
mentioned these episodes you can use
that knowledge in order to kind of skip
there really quick Nagios do tell
Nagios enterprise monitoring server aka
nameless names Linux now because I got
the dot-com oh I want the dot-com so I
had to find a name that was usable right
and I went with names Linux so if you
ever doubt that we love raspberry pie
first of all I designed and built Plex
pie I designed and built NEMS Linux I'm
constantly creating projects for the
Raspberry Pi community we've done some
other things that we'll talk about
but MEMS Linux comm check it out that is
an enterprise level monitoring system so
if you head over to NEMS linux comm it's
a free distro that you can install in
your Raspberry Pi 3 and how are we doing
here so we've got two hundred and twenty
some odd Raspberry Pi threes that are
running it right now 244 users that are
actively checking in every day and it
shows a little bit of stats here but
essentially what nems Linux is is well
if you're familiar with Nagios it is a
monitoring system for your network so
through this you can tell if something's
wrong with one of your computers on your
network you can tell if there's
something going on with like if there's
a problem so if a server is failing or a
hard drive is failing here we've got a
sample that c drive space is low on the
windows server so it's set off an alarm
and what's neat about is that it'll send
out email notifications it will bring
them up in your browser if you're
looking at the interface NEMS linux is a
free tool to turn your Raspberry Pi 3
into a network monitoring system mm-hmm
you may wonder ok well I've only got
three computers on my network so what
good is that to me you can set it up to
also monitor mom and dad's place and you
can set it up to monitor your
customers on their site from one central
raspberry-pi you can be connecting out
through the internet and checking stats
on various hardware that's on the
internet I did not know that
hmm and then you can use it also to
monitor your website see if your website
is getting a high ping or if it's down
and it will notify you in those
situations you can even monitor things
like a minecraft server and if if it's
getting to be you know too high of CPU
usage warned you things like that it'll
tell you how many players are playing on
your map and there is a limitless amount
of stuff that you can do with an immense
Linux server it's incredible so if you'd
like to check out our coverage on NEMS
Linux of course go to our website
category five dot TV into a search for
NEMS nem asks and the reason that I
would say to search for it is because
over time we're going to be doing a lot
more features with NEMS because it is
getting very very popular mm-hmm and
I've got some things that I'd love to
tell you right now tonight but I can't
see kind of embargoed like there are
some announcements coming out in the
next two weeks really are huge for us
ok so names Linux is about to take off
buy stocks folks buy stock and and
that's an exciting thing so I say do a
search for names on our website because
you're gonna find more content than we
have there right now so changing that up
in the top here category five dot TV
slash shows slash technology slash
episode and the NEMS feature that we did
Jeff if you remember it was 478 so if
you just change that to 478 it should
take us to Nagios enterprise monitoring
on a Raspberry Pi 3 and that's gonna
start the the episode with us cool Wow
we were good looking then we're good
looking now just look at that got a
better camera now I know we're kind of
stretched out of out of shape there a
little bit this is the 4k camera that we
are saving up to purchase so buy a
t-shirt buy a sweatshirt that'll help us
to do that other projects that you can
think of Jeff that we could
do with a Raspberry Pi or that we have
done with a Raspberry Pi well there's
lots we've done but one that's on my you
know PI bucket list so to speak and I
have some of the components at home is
to create a pi video game system not not
for your TV but old school with the like
an arcade yeah like an arcade joystick
the buttons so I have a main box or yes
so I've ordered the buttons and the
joysticks nice so I have those I just
fell haven't built the case for it to go
in and I don't want write a tabletop I
want a stance I want a full-size as I've
told you you need to put this in the
garage no I am slowly clearing a spot
out where it's like oh what are we gonna
do with this corner of this room I just
don't know sweetheart
the the china cabinet I don't know it
just exploded do you really need a
kitchen table so that's on my list
definitely and we've looked at some of
the gaming potential in the Raspberry Pi
3 we set up retropie yes and what that
is this it allows you to use now in our
demonstration we used PlayStation 3
controllers yes they're bluetooth yep
the PlayStation 3 uses bluetooth to
communicate with its controllers so you
get some controllers for a Playstation 3
and you can connect it wirelessly to
bluetooth on your Raspberry Pi it's
built-in and what was great about that
is there is a bunch of different gaming
systems on the retropie yeah like
Nintendo Entertainment System Super
Nintendo place Atari 2600 yes like
totally retro here Absalom and and the
PlayStation the original PlayStation one
which the games are actually quite good
like if you want to play some original
tomb raider there's air that's cool and
using the playstation controller did not
hamper the gaming at all I mean butter
well yeah because you can configure
within the settings for each system the
buttons so when you think of the
Nintendo controller you've got the a B
up down left right that's it
when you go to the PlayStation 3
controller you've got buttons everywhere
but it still works and that's a great
thing about retropie the FEU is like Spy
Hunter and instantly just like lamb
chops I'm you know it I dunno it Oh
retro gaming for the win ok how many
arcade days did I spend playing Spy
Hunter question is how much did you lose
in court you don't want to know I've
mentioned this in the show no.not
quarters oh I was an idiot child oh no
my back before we had Bitcoin parents
would invest in collectible coins for
their children oh no no no no and I was
young and naive and I didn't know the
difference between a coin whose cover
value was $1 but actual value was 3000 I
think I made the arcade very happy but
they weren't on and it's honest enough
to say oh no no no we can't take that
don't don't bring that here no instead
they cash those silver dollars and turn
them into quarters for me I've just
hurts
ya hurts to hear ok so as we talk about
retropie again you can search our web
site you're gonna find more content
there but the the key episode was 442 so
if you changed that address bar head on
over to episode number 440 to build your
own retro gaming console with raspberry
pi love that episode we've got so much
great content on our website folks like
this this is a little bit of a like
throwback to some of the things that we
do here over the course of 11 seasons
but a good refresher for you to say hey
I'm getting into Raspberry Pi I'd love
to buy one especially now that the PI 3
B+ is out
so what can I do with it we've got a lot
of great content for you yep retro
gaming is definitely one of them
oh yeah yeah and I know Sasha's got one
and her and Dave absol all the time so
yeah they've got it hooked up to a 60
inch 4k TV I never played and they're
playing big they're playing
yeah like Mario Kart yes no things like
that that's all Spy Hunter you know we
also did a personal web server yeah a
couple different episodes sure we did
so that was going back for 28 ish
something like that so think about web
hosting
yeah I'm needing to have a web server to
put a website on well you can actually
turn a Raspberry Pi 3 or even a earlier
generation Raspberry Pi into a lamp
stack or a Linux Apache MySQL PHP web
server mm-hmm you just plug this in and
now with the capability of doing power
over ethernet it becomes even better
because you get into the network open up
the port in the firewall make sure you
change your default password and then
you're up and going yep okay so which
episode was that Jeff for 28 there was
also for 33 but ultimately episode for
40 was like okay so let's look at what
the difference is here so for 28
raspberry pi as a development web server
part one what do we look like back then
oh my god you had hair we were just
children and I would I was spiky head
nice okay so for 48 and what was the
next one for was that was 2015 Wow
for 33 was green so that would probably
be part two yeah of our feature about a
development web server
oh it's Kelsey oh I miss Kelsey you
turned into Kelsey ages I know
yeah nice okay last one was 440 so 440
is the cat's pajamas head on over there
the cat's pajamas that's it
I Raspberry Pi lamp stack in 30 minutes
oh yeah look at that
this is 440 we've got Shelley they're
nice so you can build a Raspberry Pi
lamp stack in 30 minutes what that's
quick yeah it's neat about the Raspberry
Pi isn't it yeah it's super quick quick
stuff and I do love that it's just get
it up and going a big part of that Jeff
is projects like UC Plex PI right what
have we done we've created the project
we've given it to you as an image so
then you just burn it to your card
mm-hmm stick it in there and turn it on
yeah and you're done so you you're
really up and going really quick now
with a Raspberry Pi lamp stack instead
what we did is showed you how to use
Debian or raspbian and then build the
packages on top of that to build that
lamp stack or a Linux Apache MySQL PHP
web server and run it on this and I've
got raspberry PI's that I've been
running 24/7 since that date and still
running great oh yeah no problem
whatsoever
very very no moving part very efficient
mm-hmm what else can we do we did a
music server oh yeah I was talking about
that recently that was a while ago that
was back episode for 14 for 16 and for
25 three-part series so we're talking
about volumio
yes so you take your Raspberry Pi 3 and
you boot up volumio and what it becomes
is your very own music server so think
about Spotify
in the palm of your hands so you get
your own library kind of like how we've
done Plex with video volumio becomes
that for audio specifically but it's
designed specifically for that with the
interface for that so you can access it
on your phone and switch through your
music put on your playlist
in Sasha's case she's using a Raspberry
Pi 3 hooked up to the PA system at the
mat her work okay and from her computer
she accesses it and programs the
playlist of all the music that they want
to play and then put it on shuffle so
they now have so they just import their
music as mp3's from CD or from iTunes or
whatever it is that they use and pop it
on there and then they can stream their
music to the speakers in a very cool on
the clinic what's awesome works a treat
so okay those numbers for 14 for 14 yep
let's see what it tells us and this is
one of those series where we actually
went on site to talk about it - so
there's Sasha and so this was getting us
started
mm-hm and then for 16 for 16 so we
skipped a week and then for 16 let's see
where we were so this is raspberry pi
music server part 2 and I you know it
could be a quicker project there we are
again but I think because of the way
that we had set it up we really wanted
to walk you through all the various
steps show you how it's done
so we took you all through it there's
volume you know running on a Raspberry
Pi and what was the third and final
episode 25 or 25 yeah and that is part
three simply said crescendo of the music
server there you go what does this one
look like Oh Hillary okay so where do we
go from here alright we actually went on
site to see Sasha connecting this thing
to the PA system and learned all about
how she's using it how she's got it set
up we went out into the to the front
desk area mm-hmm
obviously this was around Christmas time
that she's sending this up there's Sarah
one of our friends and so you definitely
want to check that out learn all about
volumio and using the Raspberry Pi as a
music server yeah and some people would
say okay well how do you hook up the
audio so it's got HDMI output yeah if
you connect it to a TV it's going to
send the audio out to the TV so
typically I use these things headless I
never put a monitor on the right you may
want to in some cases but for volumio
I use the eighth inch output the 3.5
millimeter headphone jack and that goes
to an RCA splitter into the amp or
whatever it is that I'm doing you can
also buy a hat that gives you lossless
audio
it's got optical audio output or RCA
audio output if you're more of a hi-fi
fan then that's something that you can
do if you really want to step things up
I think it's called hifiberry high-five
airy yeah you just do a quick search for
hi-fi Barre and this is the the
audiophile component that you can add to
your Raspberry Pi and it gives you that
really good theatrical sound so now your
Raspberry Pi is not just using the the
headphone jack output this bad boy gives
you everything else that looks like an
amp module it does DSP board digital
outs beautiful that's cool there's a
bunch of different ones that they carry
you can also vote them yeah you can find
them on Amazon what hardware do they do
they have here on their site nice nice
Wow there are various different types of
these kinds of hats that are available
for you that's one of the neat things
about Raspberry Pi 2 is that and I'm
gonna you're gonna catch me all the
times I say here's one of the neat
things about Raspberry Pi because
there's a lot of great stuff about it
that's again one of the reasons that
it's so popular it's expandable you can
add more components and make it better
make it do things more specifically for
your project the circuit board is
literally just that it's the computer
yeah the brain is animal footprint yeah
and then you can do anything else just
by connecting other things to it I know
I've spent time like just searching the
internet looking at PI projects and
there's one I I saw I was so neat and
it's you take
a mirror oh yeah and you or sorry a TV
screen and you dismantle your TV and so
you okay you can have a screen on your
mirror I'm gonna take a little 19 inch
screen or something put it behind your
mirror with your PI so that when you get
up in the morning using the touchscreen
you can tell you the weather and all it
was a great project and I'm like oh I
love this thing and yeah yeah you've got
it right there see like you could do
that with a PI that's a Raspberry Pi
powered smart mirror I think that's so
cool
some people are you know these guys are
brilliant people are always coming up
with new ways to use the Raspberry Pi to
do really amazing things I love that one
I think that's so neat is something I've
wanted to build just haven't had this
time and you'd have to be a pretty good
handy person to do that kind yes you are
I am not so I tend to focus on software
because that's my forte hardware I'm
just kind of learning how to get into
that so I've started by learning to
solder and you know some people have
seen my soldering tutorial videos and
said that's not how I'm learning I'm
just I'm a noob and it's okay and so
this is my first actual like completed
kit project okay so this is not a
Raspberry Pi this is a component that
you can use connected to a Raspberry Pi
and it's basically have you ever had
your internet freeze up yes what do you
do when your internet freeze up yeah
like the what the modem the modem why do
you do that well to put it through a
boot cycle and then does it come right
back up well 60 seconds to boot up
typically yeah and then everything works
yeah usually so what if you're not home
what if you're on the road and your
internet goes down and you know that oh
if only I could just unplug the power
from my modem for just 30 seconds but I
don't think you could do that wouldn't
that be nice though that would be
kicking yourself saying
I'm at the hotel in Toronto and I can't
access my server yeah that stinks so
what this devices that I did I designed
and built and it's very simple this
plugs into the USB on my router yep okay
because routers these days often have a
USB port yeah external storage or
programming or whatever so I plug this
into the usb on the router my modem
power adapter goes into the the barrel
input here okay and then I've got a
matching barrel cable that goes into the
modem so this works in both game yep the
modems power cable and the modem itself
yes this goes into my router now I've
written a program for my router it's a
micro tech so you can script it that
says if the internet goes down wait and
it waits for about three minutes if it
still is down and it tries again
periodically through those three minutes
if it's still down after three minutes
power cycle the modem no way yeah so it
actually kills the power it's got a
relay in here yep so the 5 volt gets a
signal and the relay trips turns off the
12 volt and then turns it back on after
30 seconds look at a senate tests again
and it sees if the internet is back up
and wrong so it's basically the the next
best thing to be in there at power
cycles so this is my first design and
build i built i designed it from from
like myself yeah I didn't use any
schematics or anything I made it myself
and and designed it and built it and
coded it that's nice oh cool
so but I was thinking about how this is
just a 5 volt trigger yeah my router ok
this could go into the USB of a
Raspberry Pi and I could do any number
of things with it right right or instead
of going USB I could take the the the 2
contacts the leads and go to the GPIO of
my Raspberry Pi ok because there's this
massive GPIO here let's get a little bit
closer there for you so you see all
these pins yeah I can go I can connect
into these pins and be able to program
what they do so now all of a sudden I
can power cycle my modem
I can turn on the lights or I can do
home automation I can do all kinds of
things
powered by the Raspberry Pi and some
kind of that's you know even a novice
can build all right that's cool yeah so
there's no end to the projects so you
can go a full-blown like home alone sure
yeah great should we jump into if that's
that kind of covers some of the projects
that we do here yeah let's get into some
viewer questions that have been
submitted oh yes out the Raspberry Pi
and Before we jump right into them so
we've got your questions thank you for
sending the man we do have to take a
really quick commercial break when we
come back we're going to talk about
we're gonna answer as best we can the
questions that have been submitted to us
about the Raspberry Pi stick around for
a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high-quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap v dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today cap v dot
TV slash shirts long back this is
category 5 technology TV episode number
547 it's so nice to have you here and
tonight as we celebrate pi week we're
calling it but pi day was Wednesday 314
and we are celebrating with feature
about the Raspberry Pi and so we're
about to get into your viewer questions
that have been submitted over the past
week or so should we just jump right
into it
absolutely ok so Rob Gor says a rag or
hi Robbie ello I love the episodes on
setting up Plex on the Raspberry Pi
could you go through the process of
setting the PI up so that it can access
the media from a server like FreeNAS on
ray Det cetera ah ok so this is
something I don't have a server per se
here at the studio I take our files
off-site and their backdrop off-site so
I don't have any Nass hairs or anything
like that that I can demonstrate with
but I will tell you here's where things
get exciting with Raspberry Pi with Plex
PI and with these kinds of things is
that we don't have to think of it in
terms Rob Gore as how do we connect to
the NASS with Plex PI how do we connect
to the NASS with NEMS
how do we connect to the NASS with back
up a moment and just think about the
base of Plex PI and nems and raspbian
and all these things
what are they at their heart their Linux
right right so the question becomes how
do we connect to a Samba share or CIFS
on Linux and as soon as we understand
that now we're able to do that on flex
PI we're able to do that on nems the
knowledge supersedes it blankets all of
those distros because they are all Linux
right so I'm going to point you to see
ifs - utils that used to be samba but
now it's CIFS that connects that's the
the fuse
I believe it's fuse but whatever it
connects to Samba shares network sharing
on your network and it allows you to set
up FS tab entries which is your
filesystem table that allows you to have
those things automatically boot when you
turn on your computer or when you turn
on your PI and you're gonna have instant
access to it let's jump over to our
website category 5 dot TV into a quick
search for FS tab I'm gonna try an out
CIFS let's just see if that brings us
any results here Rob Gor making your
website faster with cloud-based
JavaScript hosting that doesn't sound
right okay so let's try CIFS resolving
host names tracking your projects making
your website faster I wonder if we
talked about it in that episode that's
why it's come up twice all right now if
we're not seeing results for that
let's try FS tab samba
no luck see I know that we've covered it
Rob gore and this is where I kind of
tongue-in-cheek say as long as we
remember to tag the episode and maybe
that's why that one episode is coming up
maybe we did talk about it and so we
tagged it in the in the keywords I'm
gonna head over instead to mine my blog
which is bald nerd calm and try the
search there same search CIFS FS tab oh
I got a extraneous space in there but
let's see FS tab let's just do that
automatically deduplicating data add a
drive to Linux and encrypt it backup a
Linux machine with LVM plex media server
arm Raspberry Pi 3 make it so mount
point can't be written if it's not
mounted boy oh boy do we move over to
Google I know that I've covered all this
stuff just where yeah where did I put it
in our cloud of FS tab let's try samba
one last shot no thing found so instead
try CIFS - utils FS tab is what I'm
going to search for wiki dot new boom -
dot-com sounds trustworthy so here you
mount windows shares permanently and
this takes you through so what we need
to do as I mentioned you need to install
CIFS utils ok ignore the uh Noldor
system nobody installs SMB FS anymore
and then mounting so then edit your FS
tab file and put this in there now
there's a couple of things that I would
also add let's see if they include it so
their first example is a little bit
vague so a little bit of research and
you'll be able to find what you need but
that should get you up and going here's
this one looks a little nicer yeah so I
think if anything I'm realizing maybe
that's something I should do a feature
on and I'd be happy to
but this this will give you what you
need to get in order to do that so CIFS
utils FS tab those are your queries
those are the things that you need to do
so essentially with CIFS you're able to
mount nash shares on linux and FS tab
does it every time you boot but what we
want to do is we want to set it up with
things like so that it knows that it's a
network share and so that it knows not
to halt your system if it's not
connected on boot those kinds of things
so I was sure that I did a feature it's
out there somewhere anyone knows or if
anyone has been binging category-five
and has found it please let me know the
episode that'd be great thanks Rob gory
it's nice - nice to hear from you
ok orange man writes dear Robbie
I've got Plex PI to work and the only
thing is that when I try to access the
plex interface through my PC in another
room I open Firefox and enter the
address HTTP colon front slash 127.0.0.1
colon three two four zero zero front
slash web front slash index dot HTML but
it didn't work
hmmm what am I doing wrong ok and what
PS it badly buffers on some films which
makes it difficult to watch why does it
do this with some videos and not others
first thing I would look at is the codec
that's used in those videos for example
h.265 requires a lot of CPU in order to
decode so make sure your videos are
h.264 that will probably most likely
will be the issue otherwise if it's a
massive file like 4k 120 frames a second
it's got a transcode and it's not a
these are not that powerful you can
understand that so you may need to
change those files as far as the
formatting goes h.264 is probably better
for you than h.265 for sure back to your
first comment okay so we've got Plex PI
up and going on our PI we're trying to
access it by going to HTTP colon slash
slash 127.0.0.1 colon 32400 slash web
yep so the address is correct only if
you are sitting at your Raspberry Pi why
any guesses probably no clue 127.0.0.1
27.0 0.1 is localhost yes on any
computer that IP address will refer back
to itself so if you are trying to
connect to this system from my laptop
and on my laptop I type 127.0.0.1 my
laptop will try to connect to my laptop
not to the PI so what you need is the
internal IP address of the PI easiest
way to find that is probably login to
your router
look at the DHCP pool and all of the
active devices and you'll see one called
Plex PI and that is the entry in your
DHCP server and it will give you the IP
address there in your router now most
routers have the default of one ninety
two dot one six eight dot zero dot and
then something yeah so I mean you're
probably going to be in that
neighborhood yeah but that's why now if
you're accessing your Plex PI from
outside your network though well that's
a whole different thing let's yes that's
not confused Jeff so no don't do it yeah
don't don't even try that just within
the network not outside get started in
the land yes understand that first and
then we'll talk about the rest okay yeah
because then we're getting into a whole
other can of worms and port forwarding
and everything else we don't want to get
into that tonight for orange man so
orange man find the IP address of this
if you can't find it in your router
bring Plex PI up on the screen on this
system so plug a keyboard and mouse and
monitor into this turn it on and and
Ethernet turn it on and then press alt
f4 once you see Plex that will bring you
to the desktop then bring up the
terminal and type I P space a enter that
will show you the IP address of this
device look for something like
192.168.1.0 I address it will say IP
ipv4 hopefully and hopefully you'll be
able to attract that
yep let us know okay give us an update
I'd love to hear from you we have a
question from Carsten says inspired by
you I've just fought a pi3 installed the
Plex PI server so far so good
however when logging in a notification
appears that an update is now available
version one point twelve point zero
point four eight yes my multi-million
dollar question is how do I get to
upgrade my Plex as I have made the lazy
installation hope to hear from you soon
greetings from Denmark nice thanks
Carsten
okay so million dollar question does
that mean if I answer this - any effort
that I will get a million dollars I hope
so because we would really like that
fiber Internet okay so I think let's see
so when logging in okay so the the what
is happening here is that Plex updates
their own software and this is really
something you don't really have to worry
about you can ignore that for now
because Plex PI is still young okay so
remember that Plex PI is version 1.2 at
the time of this broadcast so I'm doing
my best to simplify the process one of
the things I will be simplifying Karsten
is the update process some people have
gotten into the terminal and done in a
disk upgrade and everything else and
broken their Plex pie and then emailed
me and said why is my Plex by not
working now I would probably I would
just suggest that for the time being
just hang tight because I'm updating it
for you I'm doing those updates and then
releasing version 1.3 and inevitably
will be releasing software that will
auto update the system for you so what
it is is that Plex has brought out a new
version that's the software that we use
to operate Plex PI and then they've
displayed within their interface there's
an update available well it's a little
complicated because you can't download
that update and install it because Plex
Pi is a whole different can of worms
it's built to be an out-of-the-box
experience so it's up to me now to now
take that out of the bottom of the box
experience and make it so that it
auto-update by itself without you having
to intervene and without breaking things
that's key yes so you can ignore those
upgrades at the moment and you know I
say that only with the stipulation that
I know I'm working to update them for
you so you don't have to worry about
falling years behind it's not going to
happen unless I get hit by a bus don't
do that I will try my best not to but
your million dollar donation today for
my answer so I should make it out okay
and should be able to update that for
you yeah
but appreciate the question can we
backtrack a little bit to rob Gore sure
okay did I miss something well actually
the chat room has helped us out oh yeah
you asked does anybody remember when we
covered the last question
yeah and soul boo souls come to the
rescue and said dry episode 407 because
you answered the CIFS question on that
episode bless okay episode 407 was
viewer question extravaganza
our viewers have supplied us with a
plethora of questions and some great
comments with topics like NFS and Samba
CIFS ah Thank You soul boo nice okay
episode 407 Rob Gor there you go so boo
and community thank you very much see
who needs to have a search on the
website when you have a chat room I know
it's awesome yeah all right do we have
time for one more question I think you
know we've got news still to cover all
right and so if okay oh yeah I'm so used
to Sasha doing she's not here so if
you've sent in a question we haven't
been able to cover it yet please no we
will come back to you next week and
please keep the questions coming
don't forget t-shirts go to cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts I'm gonna say that just
leading into the news and it's that
million dollars I would really
appreciate that I'll donate 10 points to
charity and and we'll we'll upgrade a
few things around here well find this
good will finally pay for that camera
that B&amp;H has been so good to let us use
blessed
oh yeah have you guys been enjoying this
camera and we really see the difference
when we puts a shellac on the old camera
back and forth between the two cameras
it's it's amazing so yeah all right you
ready to do the news I am ready to do
right sirs all right here are the
stories were covering this week in the
categories okay
all right you could have figured it out
you know where we are oh yeah I know
where we are I have a lot of buttons to
push do you guys see all this stuff in
front of me now he wants me to start
pushing buttons on this I'm used to the
remote I know you've got rid of the
remote since I gave up it is alright no
okay all right here are the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom Elon Musk a man prone to
ludicrous deadlines has birthed yet
another test flights of his Mars
spaceship next year
a drone owner has been charged as
starting a fire that destroyed 300 acres
of grassland in Arizona's Coconino
National Forest a new study shows that
less than half of ransomware targets who
pay actually get the files back and
ransomware for robots is the next big
security nightmare these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere whether you shop on
think geek gearbest B&amp;H Photo Video eBay
or Amazon or even if you want a free
trial of audible you'll find the best
deals and support the shows we produce
by simply visiting the shopping sites
you already frequent by using the links
on our website visit category 5 TV slash
partners for the full and ever-growing
list and help us create more free
content like this show thank you for
shopping with our partners and thank you
for watching the
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux bias
I'm Jeff Wesson and here are the top
stories we're following this week Elon
Musk a man prone to ludicrous deadlines
has burst yet birthed yet another idea
test flights of his Mars spaceship next
year he told the audience at the South
by Southwest festival in Austin Texas I
think we'll be able to do short flights
up and down sometime in the first half
of next year he put a dark spin on it
though saying that it's vital that
humans reach the red planet before the
next world war and saying that a Mars
colony would reduce the chance of an
extended new Dark Age if a nuclear
conflict were to wipe out life on Earth
but we'd rather keep things optimistic
so enough about that after a string of
failed rockets and near bankruptcy
SpaceX wowed the world with this Falcon
Heavy flight in February a highlights
reel of the event soundtrack to David
Bowie's life on Mars was shown to
attendees at the festival the ultimate
goal of the mission of course is a Mars
colony at the event musk painted a
picture of what he felt such a society
would need to look like in order to be a
success he said he was excited about the
potential for launching new industries
from a completely fresh starting point
Mars will need pizza joints and one day
people will need a Mars bar he said
congratulating congratulating himself on
the dad joke regardless of our
individual opinions of Elon Musk the
prevailing mood here is that he is a
visionary of the highest order and if he
doesn't try to get us to Mars
who will I like this idea of going to
Mars I do it's it's something that we've
never done I mean we've talked about
yeah how many things can you say that
about I know I mean we've reached a time
and in our society in our global
everything where we just I feel like
we've done everything yeah you know
we're reinventing the wheel on some
things but it's but have we got LTE
internet on the moon no that's next year
ok yeah but I mean the question for this
one becomes is it going to take the six
months to get there is Elon gonna have
some
faster process for forgetting to Mars
yeah you know I know he's been working
tirelessly with at building new forms of
propulsion yes and things like this so
where that's gonna take us I guess next
year we'll know when he starts the test
flights I guess that's when we're gonna
really know what they've accomplished so
far right and I mean with the payload
size that the that his Falcon heavy X I
think that was called has won't be
enough to set up a full colony so you're
gonna have to probably send me multiple
you know flights ever think yeah plus
SpaceX has reduced the cost of space
travel
absolutely so another goal is an
exploration multiple flights at the same
time and hey here's our people pod and
here's all of our right I mean who knows
you know what they'd have to have
fail-safes in place that you know each
ship would have a certain number of
people a certain number of supplies
mm-hmm so that if one didn't make it
that people who did make it aren't
without water for all sampler as long as
you've got Matt Damon to poop on
potatoes you're alright is that real
life well that's what happened in the
movie okay but scientists have said that
that is probably the most realistic way
of actually getting potatoes to grow on
Mars Wow yeah interesting Jeff I know
you just kind of threw that in there
folks if you were wondering pooping on
potatoes is the way to go wonderful okay
a drone owner has been charged with
of grassland in a National Forest in
Arizona a drone reportedly caught on
fire after it crashed denting dried
grasses in an area called Kendrick Park
near Flagstaff about 30 firefighters
were able to bring the blaze under
control within a day now if found guilty
the drones owner could face a fine
community service or even a jail
sentence while tackling the incident
last week firefighters preemptively set
light to the grasslands surrounding a
local landmark the Chapel of the Holy
dove to ensure that the small church was
not
by the flames warnings were issued to
drivers in the area as dense smoke from
the fire made driving conditions
difficult on roads through the Kendrick
Park region now while it is legal to fly
a drone in the US National Forest there
are strict regulations governing when
and where they can be flown drones must
not be flown in wilderness areas nor
over areas where wildfires are active in
2017 helicopters helping to tackle fire
in the very same forest were hampered by
a drone taking pictures of the blaze now
the pilot of that unmanned craft was not
identified and firefighting planes and
helicopters helping to tackle seasonal
fires in other regions have also been
temporarily grounded for fear of a
collision with a drone it's unfortunate
that recreational drone use has come to
this level where people are not aware
that they're actually hampering you know
emergency situations
oh yeah like be smart if you're gonna
fly a drone if they're I mean I get sure
it's great cool footage to film a forest
fire but if you're preventing people
from being able to put out that fire
that's not cool
or if you're creating the fire well that
too no I mean in the case of this drone
flier it's not like he intended to crash
and make it burn so should we be setting
up like a drone insurance industry well
I think that so if we back up and think
about and I don't know the whole you
know the details about who this flier
was but first of all his drone caught on
fire so that tells me it's probably
gas-propelled right I would expect it's
not a battery-powered drone no and if
that's the case then this is a
commercial flier like this is not
somebody that's just a hobbyist like me
with his electric drones that right you
know I'm flying around over the trees
and safely bringing them down and if
they crash they get stuck in the
branches and I cry because I just lost
$600 in drone hardware right that's how
it goes for me but so we must have they
must be a consumer flyer
commercial flyer or be serious enough
about it that he's using it for
commercial purposes I would expect like
unless you're just filthy stinking rich
and you own a really big expensive
gas-powered drone not anymore but there
are regulations and there are laws that
say that if you were flying commercially
there are rules and yes you have to be
insured okay so if he was flying if he
was flying without insurance that's an F
because I don't know then you know who
is liable for that who pays for that who
pays for the damage yeah that's the
question it'll be very interesting to
see how that one plays out anymore I'd
like to know more about who he is why
obviously they they found him yes so he
fessed up because the you know the other
person who was flying a drone and
hampering emergency services they never
found them right because a drone can be
kilometres away and again these are
these are not your average consumer
drones these is right these are big
heavy drones that can be flown from
kilometres away using 3d goggles and
virtual reality yes yeah that's true
nobody interested see how that one
shapes out mm-hmm all right in a
shocking revelation criminals proved to
be untrustworthy Oh a new study shows
that less than half of ransomware
targets who pay up actually get their
files back paying off ransomware a
demand is a great way to end up losing
both your money and your files this
according to a study from security
company cyber edge which found that
those hit by ransomware infection the
best bet is probably to just restore
from a backup the survey based on a poll
of information security professionals
found that less than half of those who
pay a ransom end up getting their data
back the report says that 55% of people
who surveyed reported a malware
infection hitting their systems in 2017
Spain had the highest rate with 80% of
respondents malware followed by
companies in China at 74% and Mexico at
70 1.9 percent in the u.s. 50 3.8
percent of respondents were hit by
ransomware
slightly under half of those in the UK
49.5% were hit
overall seventy two point four percent
of those who were infected with
ransomware were able to get their data
back
most of those however were companies
that simply ignored the ransom demands
and restored their systems with
uninfected backup copies the study found
that eighty six point nine percent of
those who refused to pay the demand
ended up recovering their data of those
who cave to the demand and paid the
ransom forty nine point four percent
said they did recover their data well
50.6% ended up losing it anyway
the nutshell shocking conclusion is that
criminals don't always stay true to
their work good to hear that so many
folks have reliable disconnected backups
yes this is one of the fears with and
the dangers with ransomware is that it
doesn't just encrypt the files on your
server and your computer's it encrypts
the files on your backup that's right so
what happens if you don't have a backup
and you don't pay the ransom is there a
third option or you don't have a backup
you pay the ransom as a last ditch
effort and they don't come through yeah
like is there another way to get this
data back that is a really you know my
answer to that would be very iffy okay
b-but you might be surprised to know
that my answer would be maybe okay
perhaps perhaps there's each other
option because what happens with these
with these types of things ransomware
and and and things the there are often
master keys these are keys that the
hackers create in order to be able to
recover the files and once those master
keys are deciphered by security
engineers tools are released that help
people to recover their files using the
master key okay so ESET is one of those
companies that has worked really hard to
release tools to decrypt files and there
are there are actually a number of
security research companies security
like
anti-malware companies that have worked
together to create repositories of their
tools so that people who are infected
with particular types of ransomware
infections can recover their files right
so again it's not a guaranteed you're
going to get your data back if you run
this free program it doesn't work that
way but to know that there are people
and companies out there that are working
hard to combat this issue is a really
encouraging thing and I'll actually show
you the website it's I believe it was no
more ransom dot-org
no more ransom dot-org no more ransom or
I must have mistyped it but it
redirected anyways so here we are no
more ransom org and you see that there
are a ton of folks that are involved in
this you've got you know the main
associate partners
BitDefender Trend Micro is a big
contributor vast we've got law
enforcement agencies that work with them
other partners which is where we find
ESET for example who've contributed some
code and they also distribute their own
tools so here's what we do
so decryption tools now there's other
great information here so check it out
but go into decryption tools and you can
find all these different ransomware
decrypt errs right so these are all
ransom ransomware viruses or malware so
if I'm for example infected with the
crisis ransomware there are two tools
one of them from Kaspersky Lab and one
of them from Trend Micro and these two
tools are designed specifically to
decrypt the files that are encrypted
using that particular malware oh so if
you're fortunate yeah there may be a way
to recover those files even if you don't
have a backup and even if you don't have
if you haven't been able to recover them
by paying the ransom but that is not a
fail-safe that is not a reason to not
protect yourself that is a last-ditch
effort of security engineers to help you
the fact is you need to have a good
backup you have to have a backup that is
disconnected from anything that this
kind of infection can touch so
air-gapped unplugged taken home rotated
every week and never touching the
network while ransomware is a thing yes
okay researchers have found that they
were able to infect robots with
ransomware in the real world such
attacks would be highly damaging to
businesses if robotics security isn't
addressed ransomware has long been a
headache for PC and smartphone users but
in the future it could be robots that
stopped working unless a ransom is paid
researchers at the security company
ioactive have shown how they managed to
hack the humanoid NAO robot by Softbank
and infected one with custom-built
ransomware the researchers said the same
attack would work on the pepper robot as
well after the infection the robot has
shown insulting the its audience and
demanding to be fed Bitcoin
cryptocurrency in order to restore
systems back to normal
now while a tiny robot making threats
might initially sound amusing if a
little bit creepy the proof-of-concept
attack demonstrates the risks associated
with lack of security and robots and how
organizations that employ robots could
suddenly see parts of their business
grind to a halt should they become a
victim of ransomware Caesar sir Otto CTO
at IO in active labs said in order to
get a business ownership to pay a ransom
to a hacker you could make robots stop
working and because the robots are
directly tied to production and services
when they stop working they'll cause a
financial problem for the owner losing
money every second that they're not
working now taking what was learned in
previous studies into security
vulnerabilities of robots researchers
were able to inject the right code in
pepper and nao robots to make to take
complete control of the systems giving
them the option to shut the robot down
or
by its actions the researchers said it
was possible for an attacker with access
to the Wi-Fi network the robot is
running on to infect malicious code in
into the machine unlike computers robots
don't yet store vast amounts of
vulnerable information that the user
might be willing to pay a ransom to
retrieve but as companies often don't
use backups to resource systems from if
a robot becomes infected with ransomware
it's also impossible for the user to
restore it to normal by themselves so if
we have the ability to have our robots
hacked you knew it was coming guys you
knew it was coming would it be done in
the same way that they could be hacking
autonomous cars hmm like you know I'm
thinking of Wi-Fi exploits and yeah you
know what I'm obviously you know going
to the Hollywood side of things I'm
thinking of the movie I Robot where
you've got one mainframe that's running
all the computers if somebody found a
way to hack right you know like I think
I think it was peppers running in a
hospital there's a pepper
yeah yeah you know could somebody hack
that to hurt people potentially yeah I
guess you know right I mean
theoretically they could and but you
know they they're kind of the story says
that you know your dad is not a problem
but any device on your network is an
entry point for attack right so if a
robot were an entry point for an attack
and now that robot is infected that
robots on the same Wi-Fi as your server
mm-hmm and now all of a sudden the robot
can use the code to go out into the
server and start encrypting files there
right I mean I'm thinking of production
companies you know so literally so many
on industries yeah they use robotics and
I mean if somebody hacked in there and
say shut out an entire facility oh yeah
I mean imagine that the productivity and
the financial impact of shutting down an
automaker for one day even or you could
take it one dark step further and look
at military right right because military
is work
toward using robots more and more to
carry heavy artillery and carry even the
you know this the just essentials and
things like that so you know what would
happen if their network of robots were
debilitated by ransomware during during
like during a war or something so what
you're saying is that to bring this news
to full loop we go back to you on musk
and we should just set up on Mars colony
it might be the next it may be necessary
I know what are your thoughts folks I
mean what what risks are there and is
there something that needs to be done I
think the answer is clearly yes
if these robots can be exploited in this
way I can't imagine that more security
has not like I'm a little blown away
right now that pepper is vulnerable to
ransomware I how is this possible does
she run Windows well you know it's it is
a great point because I mean we use
robotics to assist us on a daily basis
and if you don't think about these
things it does become a problem and you
know with pepper being in a hospital
there is the potential for storing data
of you know somebody walks in or
stealing data well exactly yeah so you
know somebody walks in they talk to the
robot say here my symptoms and pepper
does a quick triage and send you over
here send you over there you know if
that's what it turns into
but all of that information is stored
somewhere and then because it would have
to then go to patient files you do have
a storage issue and a connection there's
a connection obviously to the central
database yeah so I mean there's a lot of
potential problems that come with this
and I would hope that developers of
these robots are thinking about security
minded you know protections rather than
just hey look at these cool things we
can do yeah like I'm thinking of that
about two weeks ago I think there's a
YouTube video of a robotic dog that
opens doors
yeah mazing yeah which is cool but what
if that dog got hacked and it was
to pick locks and open doors now
suddenly you've got a robot for all you
would just build a big strong robot that
just bashes doors down okay so Robocop I
think my concern is that more care
hasn't been spent on the security thing
and we saw the same thing with
automobiles yes with hackable systems
how can we be bringing out technologies
without understanding the underlining
security how can that not be our
priority to make sure that hey if I'm
bringing out robots that are Wi-Fi
connected or we've heard about Bluetooth
children's toys that can be hacked and
compromised yeah from you know the the
house next door and and you know these
are concerns children's like baby
monitors yes being hacked because when
we built this device we fought only
about the video quality and the stream
and did not put any work into the
security how is that possible there
needs to be some kind of yeah I hate to
say regulations no I don't want to say
that but who there needs to be
accountability absolutely I think is is
what it boils down to hmm a lot of
things to think about comment below let
us know what you think that's right
big thanks to Roy W Nash the Albuquerque
turkey and our community of yours for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five
dot TV newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Jeff Weston Jeff thank you so much this
is category five technology TV I hope
that you've enjoyed yourself tonight as
we have celebrated Pi Day in the only
way that we know how which is to talk
non-stop incessantly for one hour about
raspberry pi it's true
I almost feel bad that I didn't bring
like a raspberry pie to eat on the show
I just would have been a nice you know
focal point speaking of didn't bring you
have a new raspberry pie that you've
been working on yes
okay so there's time for more pie folks
there's there's always time for pie he's
all
so leading into Christmas I was looking
at getting another Raspberry Pi yeah for
the purpose of creating a I was going to
do another retropie gaming system nice
that way you can only you can never have
well we've got only the one TV so I was
gonna put it on the other TV so that you
know
yeah it's can play on both you know ho
yeah I don't want to play Barry oh I
want to play you know whatever so I was
gonna do it for that and then because
it's a headless but I was gonna be
setting up for a headless system
potentially but I'm like okay what if I
want to be able to access it and for
whatever reason I can't get it to
connect to my TV for visual purposes and
this has happened with my other PI
because yeah I have an off name-brand tv
downstairs I opened up for I think it
was a 50-inch for like 98 bucks or
something yeah some special sale and
every once in a while the video feed
does not work from the PI to the
computer and so to the TV so I wanted to
get a case that had a an LCD screen or
LED I believe screen okay and so the
case I picked up was I think 25 30 bucks
on Amazon oh I gotta check this out I
don't recall the name of it but it was a
PI case with a screen I just did a
search for AI case right then the first
one because I didn't literally pie case
screen yet that's the one I got right
there that's it a 3.52 that yeah now it
was on sale going into Christmas I think
I paid 25 bucks for it
on exam oh I'm fine but it works really
well simple to set up so it pulls the
video from GPIO that's correct
so you still can plug in to the TV so
same yeah it is effectively a mini
desktop so no I mean it doesn't work it
doesn't work out of box you need to
install the drivers on Shuai yeah yeah
but it was great to work with and it
does cause it a mirror image of what you
see on the TV yeah okay yeah cool and
it's got a style I mean it's it's a
small screen yeah we're talking the size
of a pie yeah but it does come with a
stylus because I've got big meaty
fingers and the stylus makes it easy to
move around so I can operate them
new system without any issue it's it's
beautiful so if you do have a headless
PI and you're going hey sometimes I
can't connect to I can't figure what's
going on whatever this is a great option
because you've got you guys these my
also got your screen very cool so yeah
hope you've maybe gotten excited about
Raspberry Pi tonight maybe some of the
things that we've talked about or shared
is you know getting you excited about
what you can do with a Raspberry Pi and
we have not even scratched the surface
not even close
not even close there's a reason I'm
surrounded in Raspberry Pi yep
don't forget we've got our teespring
fundraiser going on right now you can
get a sweatshirt like I'm wearing
tonight you can get t-shirts head on
over to cap five dot TV slash shirts and
that's a great way that you can support
category 5 TV but also you get some swag
at the same time so then you're able to
Don those and show that you're a fan of
the show send us a picture and we will
show it on air and we'd appreciate your
support thank you everybody thank you
have a wonderful week yes can't believe
it's time to go yeah thanks for bill
we'll be back next - I'll be back as
well for those of you wondering she is
on her honeymoon so they waited until
until now to have the honeymoon and yes
and so they are they're traveling and
well it was a nice week oh yeah I'm
jealous so
all right everybody have a great week
and we'll see you next time thanks to
care
