here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Amazon has reported record-breaking
quarterly profits helped and arise by
online sales and demand for its cloud
services Google's sister company way Moe
has announced a trial in which its
self-driving cars will ferry shoppers to
and from nearby Walmart's stores to pick
up their groceries children could be
banned from owning drones weighing more
than 250 grams under a new proposal from
the Department for Transport in the UK
and a competition helping to drive the
development of futuristic Hyperloop
Transport Systems
have been won by engineering students
from Munich these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere
Jeff Westen Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
you're a terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play I
don't know I think you're supposed to
act ok I'm building a really cool
website are you building a really cool
website just because Jeff is confused
doesn't mean you have to be visit cap 5
dot TV slash DreamHost
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat 5 TV slash dream host
this
a category 5 TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
linux bias I'm Sasha Rickman in here the
top stories for following this week
amazon has reported record-breaking
quarterly profits helped by a rise in
services profits hit a record 2.5
billion dollars in the three months to
the end of June about 12 times more than
it made during the same period last year
sales rose by thirty nine percent to
fifty two point eight nine billion
dollars slightly less than analysts had
been forecasting in response to the
report amazon's shares jumped more than
three percent in after-hours trades last
Thursday at the firms lucrative cloud
service division Amazon Web Services
sales were up nearly 50 percent on-year
to year to six point 1 billion dollars
Amazon is also starting to attract more
money from advertising revenue from the
firm's
other category which includes
advertising more than doubled to about
2.2 billion dollars retail sales in
North America were healthy as well
rising about 44 percent to almost 30 2.2
billion dollars recruitment slowed in
the quarter Amazon is also starting to
reap the benefits of previous
infrastructure investments allowing for
less rapid spending growth Amazon is
expected to account for roughly half of
online sales in the US this year are you
kidding me of all fifty percent of all
sales yes are gonna be on Amazon which
is amazing and interestingly enough I
read in our article today about Jeff
besos besos besos however says last last
name he is now worth I think was a
hundred and fifty billion dollars which
is 50 times more than was it Bill Gates
was double what Zuckerberg is valued at
like he's he is nobody in the US has
been valued at 150 billion before that's
doing well that is doing so well good
something's working with Prime let me
tell you so I am
surprised because I love Amazon so much
I can use it all of the time I don't
love to go to the mall so it makes me
think to myself like is this the death
of the mall I think a lot of things that
death of them all yeah but I mean it's
the fact that Amazon is so diversified
that's what that is what I humming even
more so pharmaceuticals food yeah like
they literally are controlling
everything and it's a great business
plan for them and they've done it
smartly like a lot of companies their
whole thing is we're just gonna go buy
this and we're gonna buy that company
then we're gonna take this over which is
wonderful but then you've got the debt
load that comes with purchasing it
Amazon while buying certain companies
has done things from the ground up and
they've said we want to go into this
area so we're gonna create the ability
for our company to do that and inventing
it in a way that works for them which
severely cuts down the costs of getting
into that market and then when you've
got the brand power of saying hey it's
Amazon like they've done a phenomenal
job but yeah it's gonna kill retail and
as Sasha was saying they've taken a
smart approach of invest now mm-hmm grow
reap the benefits later right that's
exactly what they're doing and that's
where they are now real think so is it
the death of the shopping mall mm-hmm
Wow I guess there's there's a culture to
the mall right so what but but it's true
that I can't I can't walk into our best
mall here in town and find a men's
clothing store anymore that carries
reasonably priced men's clothing right
and really it's most it's all there's
very few men's clothing stores left most
of the things that I want I wouldn't
even know where to look for them yeah
but for Amazon right but also I mean you
take it a step further you've got you
know the physical brick-and-mortar
stores but also I've been seeing a trend
of online retailers are moving away from
their web sites and are now going to
posting stores on Amazon because
that's where the business is they'll
take the the loss of the massive markup
of Amazon right but now they're saving
it on their web fees and all the backend
and all the kind of stuff and then any
sales that come through it
Amazon's dealing with the security and
the privacy issues all they have to do
is supply their product Amazon as
opposed to dealing with all about
themselves I mean think of how many
companies just with the UK changes on
privacy are probably going it's a good
thing I'm on Amazon but but I mean when
you think about that the fact that
everybody's saying oh we're just gonna
go through Amazon they really are just a
hub that's what they do you're getting
the products on somebody else it's not
like it's Amazon's I mean there are is
them all and their stores inside firms
right but I mean eBay kind of started
that trend right and Amazon just said
that's great but look what we can do and
did it so much better right and the foo
is even saying Best Buy has an eBay
store yeah you know to put the example
out there yeah and it makes sense not to
say bad things about Best Buy cuz I've
bought stuff from them before but on
their online store every single time
I've ever bought something my car's been
flagged for fraud oh really yeah every
single time that's by 6's Linda wants to
know like what happens to the fitting
room well really with Amazon's return
policies you don't like oh yeah there's
something to be said about going in
trying something on looking in the
mirror saying oh yeah that looks good or
I'll put that one back and get a medium
right but with Amazon for example we
bought my daughter a bathing suit and we
just bought four of them and which
doesn't work we returned the three that
what I always have done is check the
comments because the comments most of
the times people are very clear
especially when it's clothing on how it
fits so they'll say I bought a medium
I'm usually a medium it fits really
small right and then you know okay wait
now I need to change but you got to look
because if it's around Thanksgiving I
think to myself I wouldn't if I were
going to start out my life as an
entrepreneur and I wouldn't think to
myself hey I'm gonna open a shop
point I wouldn't I wouldn't retail I
would not buy like I would not in my but
I might open an Amazon store we
completely saw my things on Amazon so
there's the there it is yeah makes sense
right on the flipside Google's sister
company way mo has announced the trial
in which its self-driving cars will
ferry shoppers to and from a nearby
Walmart store to pick up their groceries
for now the pilot is being restricted to
400 plus members of its early rider
program in Phoenix Arizona the trial
indicates how the tech giant thinks the
autonomous vehicle could be deployed if
and when they exit the experimental
stage the only word on pricing so far is
a promise to offer participants
discounts when they order goods via
Walmart's online grocery pickup service
as part of the deal the Walmart
partnership was rumored after shoppers
spotted way mo marked parking spots
outside the store earlier this week in
Phoenix Arizona some suggested that the
tie-up could offer an alternative to
Amazon's prime now quick delivery
service the announcement comes two days
after way most chief executive tweeted
that its cars had driven a total of
eight million miles on public roads
which is double what if Talia had been
in November OKC not raise this
unintentionally an interesting point in
that okay they're trying to compete with
the prime now service and maybe that
would be the death of them all the if
you will yeah the capability to get
online order something and have it there
that day right every time right that
could be so retailers like Walmart have
to come up with because they are
brick-and-mortar we have to come up with
a neat way to do this because Sears
tried to do an online store it's all
failed but it wasn't just big we're not
gonna get into the economics of Sears
yeah and yeah it's really tough like who
goes to Walmart online and buys things
on their website now well here's yeah
without comparing at Amazon first okay
so say that here's where my immediate
reaction is to this
I think to myself okay these way more
way mo cars are in Walmart's parking lot
sure I'm gonna go online at home and I'm
gonna order something and then that car
is gonna come get me bring me back to
Walmart I'm gonna pick up the groceries
and I'm gonna go back to my house why
can't you just bring me the stuff just
deliver it just deliver it why aren't
you a delivery to take a different get a
different spin and say okay well they're
trying to get in on that
like quick easy convenient kind of
marketplace but with the
brick-and-mortar aspect right so they're
not doing the warehousing thing that
Amazon is doing they're trying to make
it easier for you so in Phoenix where
you know the the transit system is taxed
and it's hard to get around well isn't
it easier to have an autonomous vehicle
come to you pick you up take you there
because it's not for somebody like me on
their way home from work and right you
know I'm not gonna do this but a good
example that comes to mind is for
example my daughter she's 13
right now if if I wanted my daughter to
help with the shopping I'd have to get
in the car I'd have to drive her to the
store we'd do the shop to get it here we
could sit down together on the internet
do the on the app and do the orders and
then I can give her the order and say
okay see you in a half hour right the
car just comes never come and get her
and it will take her there is like a
taxi service and so there's a convenient
way I guess and I'm not an infirm person
per se but somebody who can't drive
somebody who can't who doesn't have
dependents taking care of them that can
drive them to the store I guess but why
can't I I just feel like it's wasteful
to not not be a delivery yeah it's not
for me and now I like it and I want more
of this I just I feel like I want it to
be a delivery service if it's gonna or
it if the cars are already going to be
there I think the value though is there
are certain things that you could buy
online but just aren't the same as
having the ability to get picked up and
go grab
ie like produce mm-hmm I like if I was
to buy a box of oranges on Amazon and it
shows up say the next day or even say
it's same did same-day delivery I can't
verify what it is that I'm getting until
it arrives as opposed to being brought
to the location and then go sorry those
bananas are too far gone I want
something's got a little bit of green to
it right in berry we have click and
click and Collect
so you shop online you drive to the
grocery store you park in a specific
parking spot and they bring it out to
you but you don't check the produce oh
oh do you yep are you doing that yeah
it's so it's super perfect for everybody
I think yeah because you set your time
you say I'm gonna be here at this time
you go that way it's easy that sounds
handy for me coming home from work right
and it saves you so much money in
impulse shopping which is why I love
Amazon because Amazon I do not imposter
what to buy children could be banned
from owning drones weighing more than
250 grams under a new proposal from the
Department for Transport in the UK they
would only be allowed to fly devices
heavier than that if they were owned and
registered by an adult it is the latest
in a series of proposals designed to
crack down on snooping fears and near
collisions with manned aircraft if
approved it could form part of a draft
drone bill a consultation on the
proposals is now underway with the bill
due to be published later this year in
an associated report suggests the age
limit should be set at age 18 years
since many insurance policies are not
accessible to those younger that would
still be three years below the minimum
age applicants must be to be granted an
airplane or helicopter air line pilot
license the consultation does however
suggests that under-18s could operate a
drones flight controls if they're being
supervised by an older individual the UK
government has already passed
legislation
bans drones from flying at heights above
400 feet and within one kilometer of
airport boundaries and based on new
rules that took effect on Monday
pilots caught breaking these rules could
face unlimited fines or up to five years
in prison
unlimited fine how do you have an
unlimited fine it's like oh so you did
this you're five million dollars that's
it that's it
I suppose it varies depending on the
infraction and I mean you're gonna have
legal case law that goes you've done
this I'm charging you this then the next
judge is gonna go well this person did
this and so you know and you said
oppressing and then you have it so along
that vein Jeff I think they're still
establishing it just mean we haven't
really set right what's the maximum fine
right now we don't know because it
hasn't the worst hasn't happened yet so
let's put something in place that makes
it so that hopefully the worst never
does happen I need I need for that to
happen cuz I imagine damaged no I need
for the laws to be in place because I I
know she's a terrible pilot
change your of boundary-pushing right is
that kids and maybe some adults but kids
especially will always try and see how
close they can get to this you know
right but but here's where I have a a
bit of an issue is has anybody ever
tried to control a 16 year old like
there's no way like a teen might be a
little bit too late for the parents to
still be the ones being caught right I
think it should be like 16 or 15 sure
that's kind of you know that's details
but think of this okay a drone that can
exceed 400 feet in the air yeah
it's gonna be a bigger drum yes so let's
put something into place this is just
you know if I if I was in legislation
this is how I would think let's put
something into place that makes sure
that the drones that are capable of that
don't fall into hands of irresponsible
14 year olds that
and dare you to go up to 600 feet yeah
but fly through the airport but I mean
like on the drone zone we've reviewed
some drones that got significantly
higher than 400 feet did we not any that
we did have geofencing so as soon as you
hit it stop caps it oh yeah okay and
that makes sense right
I would rather see them put regulations
in place that say you know uh you know
these types of drones you're limited to
this these types of drones can only be
purchased with a license ie like gun
sales in Canada you need to have a
license to purchase a gun so I mean
you're gonna go out and buy a BB gun you
don't need a license because the
likelihood of you killing somebody with
a BB gun is significantly less than say
30 out 6 right so I mean if you can't
have a drone that has the capabilities
of going beyond that 400 feet then you
need to have a license license to
purchase it something like that
regulations all that kind of stuff part
of I'm all for regulation I love
regulation I love having rules and
boundaries and boxes this stick in but I
can't help but wonder in this one and
it's exactly what you said people like
what's that line okay I just push it a
little bit but as opposed to join this
like the Autobahn if I don't have the
drone that can do that it's not capable
of it it's not able to get that high
because I'm not licensed and so I can't
buy it can you get it if you can't buy
it stop a black market of drone sales
from right exactly and it's gonna affect
Chinese imports and gearbest and
everything I just I think that it my big
hiccup on this is really just the age I
think to myself between the ages of say
15 and 18 that children are generally
already pretty good at acquiring
whatever they want and hiding it from
their parents I don't think the parents
should be responsible for hardheaded
Rolo it's like where'd you where'd you
keep that you know foot and a half wide
drone my sock drawer kids I just imagine
that they're really stretching now folks
yeah I like stretching now
a competition helping to drive
development of the futuristic Hyperloop
transport system has been won by
engineering students from Munich the
Hyperloop idea involves passengers and
pods traveling at very high speeds down
sealed tunnels the competition saw
student teams from universities around
the world gather in California to put
their prototype pods through their paces
the idea for Hyperloop which would see
pod speed through a sealed tunnel to
reduce friction or air resistance has
been around for decades and was flushed
out by technology entrepreneur Elon Elon
Musk
in 2012 he suggests that pods could
travel along the system's tunnels at
speeds of excess of 1,000 kilometers an
hour
critics have voiced concerns about the
potential cost of building a large
Hyperloop and whether its technical
demands can be met Musk's SpaceX company
has run a series of competitions to
drive development of the concepts the
winning teams pod hit 450 kilometers an
hour on the 1.2 kilometer test track run
by the SpaceX aerospace company the
competition aims to refine the
technologies that could underpin the
super fast transport system the win is
the third in a row for the Technical
University of Munich team this is a cool
story oh yeah yeah I want it I still
every everything like this just takes me
to Mars and I'm like this is Elon Musk's
thing right and he's working on getting
to Mars so you just have to wonder like
is this the motivation is this part of
yeah absolutely there's always the
original Total Recall and everything
else you know like see I was thinking
like under ocean travel like in thoughts
that's what I was thinking with it
anything I mean you think a thousand
kilometres an hour
how quickly are you going to be able to
cross the globe right it shrinks the
world it makes us that's faster than
plane travel yeah when you think about
it that and to think that the
competition has already exceeded 450
kilometers an hour right in their test
yeah which I'm pretty sure is more than
a typical commercial jet plane is it
yeah I think so their test track is 1.2
kilometers long and take long 57
kilometers we're done okay done with
this though a few questions like from a
safety standpoint there's a few like you
reading the story in two things are
coming to mind a crashes oh yeah like
even at 457 kilometers an hour like
something goes wrong you're toast you're
not finishing your journey the second
thing I would argue same with planes
though and we already do that okay
continue yeah fair enough
the second thing is sound barrier if
they want to get up to a thousand
kilometers an hour you're gonna break
the sound barrier but a sound barrier
Jeff oh is it kilometers or miles I
think it's like 750 miles so that's
faster than Kalama 343 m/s okay so maybe
they won't break it that you decided
because this is a thousand kilometers
speed of sound in kilometers okay that's
smart but okay so that is okay so then
that removes that right concern okay so
here here's where I got excited so Dave
and I just recently went to Newfoundland
we spent a week there I loved it I want
to move there we will move there I want
to be able to get back to the satellite
studio don't ya right so could you
imagine if it was easy to get from the
island to the mainland right yeah look
at he split it would be perfect I
wouldn't in the Caribbean anything get
from like from island to island right
away I just feel like even getting you
know across the pond and going to Europe
from North America if you could really
do that in a Hyperloop situation we
could have all of our viewers in one
spot there you go yeah everybody just
come on over for the show exact that's
crazy I I fear though as you mentioned
accidents
it just seems to like airplanes it's
pretty tough for an average Joe person
to get up to that height to cause any
kind of ruckus outside of the airplane
of course they have things in place
mechanisms in place in order to stop
people from getting onto airplanes that
would cause problems right but on the
outside of the airplane it would be
really tough to get on the outside now a
Hyperloop is something that's on land or
goes across land or goes under it would
be a lot easier I would expect for
somebody with malicious purposes to
break it or to interfere with it because
it's on land it's it's easier to their
access right I see your point now
depending on what kind of margin of
error there is in a gap between the
walls of the Hyperloop and the tube
itself that could negate a lot of right
potential crash resistance I mean if
you've got maybe say a foot on either
side all you're gonna do is kind of
ping-pong around you're gonna have some
whiplash but maybe not enough to you
know kill people all right if there was
an earthquake or something yeah I mean
like I have to account for that yeah I
mean if you know pipe breaks that's
sticking out in the middle like you know
bye-bye birdie so that makes me think
because I was I was always picturing the
Hyperloop and I should look up what
these things actually look like in their
picture like a train on a track I'm
picturing like a hovering train inside
of a tube that's right but I'm not
picturing what's outside of that and
you're making me think that this could
be like a like a shock absorbing outer
lecture think about a shock mount on a
microphone yeah like on a studio
microphone right and how that microphone
sits inside of that shock mount and
could be moved around within that shock
mount and the shock now never moves
right so something like that holding the
the tube would make it virtually
impervious to better social options yeah
an earthquake and things like that so
that you wonder hmm chatroom is saying
that Hyperloop is typically for shipping
things not people yeah will be used for
people that will change but that is a an
interesting idea when Amazon takes
Boulder
deliver to the UK in one hour same day
you can bake a cake here and before it
cools it'll be there absolutely makes
sense that companies like Amazon would
get in on that
yeah for sure make guarantee they'll use
it for people the fact that we've
already got maglev trains that are going
at crazy fast speeds over and you know I
think it's Japan or China you know
somebody's gonna go let's transport
somebody because it's gonna make traffic
issues go away oh yeah imagine being
able to bypass all the traffic going to
work I can get from here to my office
six minutes and if they don't suppose
that hour and a half yeah and if they
don't do that Jeff you know somebody's
gonna put themselves in a shipping
container absolutely it's just gonna
happen here have been awesome news
stories so big thanks to Roy W Nash and
our community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight
olynyk's bias and for more free content
be sure to check out our web site from
the category-five TV newsroom I'm Sacha
Rickman thanks Sasha I'm Ravi Ferguson
Jeff Weston
[Music]
[Applause]
