welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 532 and this week
we are going to be looking at how to
improve the audio of your podcast your
YouTube channel your videos family
movies anything that contains audio
we're gonna run it through a tool that
is going to enhance it make all the
levels beautiful so that one person is
not louder than the other and so on and
so forth it's an amazing tool for
broadcasters podcasters you want to
stick around we're gonna be showing you
how to do that but we're gonna take it
one step further this tool is only meant
to run on Mac and Windows we are going
to show you how to make it work on Linux
it's like a double feature so you want
to miss it don't want to miss it
stick around here's what's coming up in
the category TV newsroom a hard drive
has been stolen from an exclusive club
containing the personal details of
members such as Stephen Fry and Lord
Reese the US government is funding
mind-control chip research getting a
drone for Christmas if you're in the UK
you may have to consider new legislation
coming this spring Uber's driver and
customer data has been compromised and
they've paid hackers to try and cover it
up and Skype has been removed from app
stores in China stick around the full
details are coming up later in the show
this is category five technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
Technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku cody
flex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPM and the international
association of internet broadcasters
tech cat 5 TV slash ia IB I like how you
turn it into a rap is like a cat 5 it's
my stutter that's ok hey how are you how
you been how was your week been I hope
it's been van tabulous is that you yeah
I just said it so it's got to be a word
alright then that's how it works over
here like when we say something that's
just sound the cat 5 dictionary I'm on
vacation that's nice
yeah I was hanging out with a friend in
the States last week just joined some
amerimike West Virginia ok
enjoying some American things in West
Virginia can I get a whoop whoop
in the comments below yeah so it was
good the one thing that I like I just
can't wrap my head around is the crazy
deals for the Black Friday oh yeah
like we have them here but not like they
do in the u.s. in the u.s. it's like an
event here it's like but the deals are
so much better like we went to Walmart
to pick something up for the dinner and
we're walking around on the Wednesday
and they're already putting their stuff
out on the 3rd for the Thursday sale at
6 o'clock for the preview Wow
but there's 55 inch 4k TVs for 200 bucks
that's America we're not supposed to
tell me what you got me for Christmas
because at Walmart I find a 55 inch TV
was $300 Canadian that's still more
expensive oh I don't you factor you know
$200 American is about $7000 Canadian
76 cents on the dollar here though here
in Canada in Canada when the last TV is
on the shelf we all stand around it and
say would you like the TV no no you
please yeah
what's your current TV no no you take
you know what I'll pay for it you take
it give you some money towards your next
one there you go the deals were crazy I
couldn't believe it yeah it's a whole
new life and then when I came across the
border it fit like Jemma cuz I came
across on the Friday the like did you
have to anything to declare I'm like no
and you said no did they go yeah looked
at the back of my car she's like you
didn't do any shopping no you doing here
what are you doing in America give me a
break they're still talking about this
weird Canadian they kept asking me to
say house and about and yeah like we get
that so for me for Black Friday Cyber
Monday cyber week it's been Amazon and
it's such a cool way to support
category-five as well because and I
thank you dude and I want to say thanks
to those of you who have been doing that
as well
if you shop online anyways all you have
to do is go to our website category five
dot TV click on support us and then
you'll see our partner links and the
partner links are basically their
affiliate links so if you want to shop
on Amazon you click on Amazon from our
site and then a portion of the sale goes
to supporting category 5 TV now we were
talking before the show Sasha one of the
things that we want to do here is
upgrade our camera yes and that's the
you know you look at it and you think it
looks great and you know it gets the job
done and you do look great oh thanks but
it's still art here's the thing our
cameras are 1080p and and because the
show is 1080p you would think that's a
great match but when we zoom in of
course we're zooming in on a 1080p video
and so we're losing quality so
for example when we zoom in on Sasha
during the newsroom you may or may not
notice but it actually resuming in
digitally on a 1080p canvas so we're
losing quality in that video so with a
4k camera we would be able to zoom in
losslessly and not and not have that
graininess so all that to say we really
would love to get a 4k camera here and
that's one of the things that I'd like
to to do with some of the the revenue
that comes from things like shopping on
Amazon it's the best and if you shop on
Amazon you don't have to leave your
house to your presence just come to you
yeah you know and my wife Becca and I
sat down in the basement her on the
family desktop me on my laptop and we
both were shopping so we just got
another for each other but also for the
kids and and said to like so basically
so she wouldn't see what I'm buying for
her right I wouldn't see what she's
buying for me but we would coordinate
what we were getting for the kids use
different accounts or two days after we
actually signed her up for an account
that's smart yeah
and so that that worked so but really
what it changed for us and what its
changing for us is the fact that now
we've got a lot of the big stuff done
you know what I mean so I don't have to
I don't have to try to find the big
gifts now it's just like it's like
stocking stuffers and things and you
know there's two sides to every coin I
know that you know I want to support
local and everything else but fact is
you know I got great deals and we've got
a lot of our you know this shopping done
and the stress was like not there yeah
not there at all beautiful so thanks
again to everybody who's been who's been
using those links we appreciate that and
as you as you do your Christmas shopping
like we're partnered with think geek
eBay Amazon all of these companies so
you can you can go onto our website for
those also welcome to all of our new
viewers if you're just tuning in for the
first time we want to say hello my name
is Robbie Jeff I'm Sasha and we we are
here in some form or another every
single week and we just love having you
here and we love bringing you a tech we
we've actually broadcast the show live
and then you're watching it on demand
whether you're watching it on cable TV
or
YouTube or on our website however you're
watching but what you see is actually a
live broadcast so you know sometimes we
make mistakes sometimes things don't go
exactly perfect and that's kind of part
of the fun and you can catch us on those
kinds of things if you're able to you
can also join us live at 7 o'clock
Eastern Time so we're just north of
Toronto Ontario on Wednesday night and
then you'll be able to tune in live join
the chatroom a chatroom you know that
cuff so we have a video game that we're
giving away a bunch of copies it's
called debt effect to VR this year if
you if you think you might get a VR
headset under the tree well listen up
because all you have to do is email us
yeah in your email let us know how
you're watching that's it that's it want
to know who you are where well it would
be nice to know where you're watching
from - yeah you know so where you're
watching from how you're watching
whether it be YouTube or house but also
so what we're doing is we're giving away
a bunch of copies of debt effect to VR
it's on Steam and so we're giving away
the coupon code so then you can download
it to your computer and play it with
your VR headset it's pretty cool it's I
mean it's first-person shooter it's not
not necessarily appropriate for the kids
but certainly for you and I we'd have a
lot of fun with that yeah for sure we've
got to take a really quick break
exciting show for you tonight we're
gonna actually be learning a little bit
about how we can make our podcasts our
videos our YouTube channel all these
things how we can make them sound better
we're going to be using a tool that is
available online stick around we'll be
right back
[Applause]
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV and
tonight we're looking at a program
called off phonic check them out like
yeah auphonic like pod neo phonics o au
pho and I see ya ok on well done calm
and ok so here's the thing if you have
ever thought about podcasting if you're
podcasting already and if you're maybe
you're thinking what's podcasting so
maybe we should just back it up a little
bit
okay so podcasting is like the new radio
if you will I mean that's it well I say
new it's like it's a as YouTube is to
video and to end Netflix as to TV
podcasting is to the old school radio
shows of you know storytelling and and
even news and everything else but it's
online you can aggregate it which means
to download or listen to new episodes as
they come out
Sasha what podcasts do you frequent any
podcast nope yes you know I am NOT a
podcast person I'm an audio well I'm an
audiobook person I'm surrounded by anti
podcasters it's not that I'm anti
podcasts it's I have AM found one yet
well that's part of it but I I want to
experience as many books as possible
because I
like I'm always on the road right so I
would I would love to read some
audiobooks is my thing I yeah I'm not
gonna lie to ya I have a brand new super
amazing computer at home what about you
I would have to say probably Josh and
Chuck are my go-to okay whenever they're
you know there's a new episode every few
days that's stuff you should know and
and what that podcast is is so I listen
to that just on my headphones from my
phone and it's every week just something
they want to teach you about so it could
be anything and so every week you've got
three new episodes or well two new
episodes and one from long ago because
they've been on the air for like a
thousand plus episodes so wonder if
they're the one that I listened to about
a month ago
yeah where they were they did a
investigation under whether your
Facebook actually listens to you or not
I did listen to one about a month away
and that doubt it because Josh and Chuck
usually don't get into technical things
okay it's not a tech podcast it's it's
very name so familiar like just like low
facts
okay stuff it's called stuff you should
know stuff you should know every week
but I have no clue you know you know
when you're spelling words like weird
and you're typing it into your computer
in that moment you're like is the I
before E except after C I before E
except after C is not a real rule no
it's not weird I'm just saying have you
ever had those instances so that's what
just happened to me oh just something
you listen to so if you are a podcaster
let's get into our feature now yes so
and and if you and this can be you know
if you if you're publishing videos on
YouTube
my son is is absolutely in love with
editing his own videos he's got a video
camera he's getting into that I got him
a microphone for Christmas so you know
all these kinds of things but when he
records sometimes the volume is really
loud sometimes the volumes quiet
sometimes he's clipping sometimes it's
it's too low and then he adds music and
you can't hear the voiceover the music
and right so it becomes this kind of
crazy you know really difficult to edit
and really hard for him now looking at a
more professional standpoint so looking
at say category five technology TV for
example here we have three microphones
sash is a bit quieter than me Jeff
it has a booming commanding voice so do
ya so what happens if one of us is
really loud or you know sash is a little
quieter or Sasha laughs hysterically at
one of my jokes so frequently yeah so in
those instances you need to use things
like compressors we have Hardware
compressors we've got an exciter which
kind of makes the sound a little nicer
but one of the secrets in our tool chest
is called off off on ik and auphonic
now takes the the the audio from our
video and it does a lot of magic to it
I'm gonna call it magic because it
really is as far as what it can do so it
has what's called an intelligent leveler
I'm just gonna kind of go through the
specifications here this is like just
off of their website off phonic comm
just so you have an idea what it does so
it magically fixes levels it magically
removes things like motor noise from the
background like that so when the ladies
do an in-car dashcam episode of new
everyday for example running it through
off on it cleans it up quite nicely so
the intelligence leveler makes sure that
the speakers and the music or of a good
level but it also makes sure that it's
broadcast quality so if it's too hot or
too loud it's gonna bring it down to a
proper level and it's gonna keep it
there throughout the entire I look now
it's audio only we use it for video
because video contains audio so you
don't need to understand how a
compressor works compressors are
notoriously difficult remember when we
were in radio and we don't always have
to call the engineer yes yes and in
radio you know that's something that we
use to keep the levels deejays always
sound better but the station lives and
dies by the compressor oh yeah
absolutely a good compressor makes a
station sound good
compressor makes it sound horrible so
with this you don't need an engineer you
don't need to be an engineer you don't
even need to understand how software how
to do anything other than click your
mouse about three times that's it
loudness normalisation is another
feature that specifically is what keeps
that peak limit at that broadcast level
so we do minus sixteen decibels which is
podcast and you know online audio so if
you watch last week's episode and then
this week's episode you'll notice that
our levels the volume is exactly the
same have you ever been watching cable
TV and the commercial starts and it's
super loud and you because the
commercials are not going through the
broadcast compressor oh so it's not the
same levels yeah so so with us from
episode to episode you're never gonna
have to worry about adjusting your your
audio your volume right and that's
because of a phonic it has audio
restoration which removes the hum and it
does some filtering magic that cleans up
low frequencies gets rid of that kind of
low Rumble stuff that's really annoying
as you're listening on headphones or if
you have a subwoofer there is a
multitrack version indeed that allows
you to take multiple audio sources and
mix them together and it will do magic
across all of these multitrack files so
for example if if we were recording our
mics separately we could actually in
fact equalize it all in a much more
intuitive way but it does great with
just a stereo or mono track as well
right
but so that's two different versions
there's a multitrack and just a normal
like pump a wav file into it and it'll
do it
it has they've been introducing on their
web version because you can do this
without software you can do it on the
website speech recognition which is very
very cool so what does that do it is it
just how does that work recognizes
speech it creates web the VTT file which
is a format that is basically closed
captions for web right so if you if you
do a podcast and you want closed
captions
this is a way to do that it also makes
it so that the text that you speak is
able to be searched that's cool yes so
love that now we're using similar kind
of technology here to create our closed
captions I'm using automatic closed
captioning and we actually have a github
repository where folks like yourself can
submit edits to our actual captions so
get on over to github comm slash cat 5
TV slash well you'll find it there
go to my github page and you'll see if
you do a search in the repositories just
do a search for captions I think it's
called like cat 5 TVs - captions or
something like that alright then it also
does encoding so it'll save them to FLAC
files it works with multiple different
file formats now mp3 AAC mp4 whatever
and you know so on and so forth so it
cleans this up right here's the thing
Windows only ok no it's not Windows only
it's Windows and Mac only no Linux no
Linux it's just so when I said Windows
only I'm a Windows or Mac Windows or
Linux user I don't have a Mac so I don't
think too much on the neck side of
things but it's Windows or Mac that's
available ok so tonight I'm gonna show
you the software but I'm also going to
teach you how to install it and make it
work in Linux yeah so we're gonna learn
how a phonic works how it does all this
magic what it does and we're also gonna
learn how to do how to make it work in
Linux so that said if you're doing this
on Mac or Windows you don't need to
follow all the steps to get it working
on Linux because you're not on Linux but
I wanted to show you because a lot of
podcasters are using free software like
audacity on on a blue - for example so
here's an opportunity for you to clean
up your audio now this is a commercial
software you can buy it outright and
then you own it and you get updates for
all time basically but also there is an
online version that you can just upload
your files to and you get two hours free
per month and it will Qasim yeah it's
very cool especially if you're a smaller
you know you're doing little little
files and I'm shorter files now we do
probably about ten hours a week so yeah
so it wouldn't work for us but and
another reason that I don't use the
online version personally is because I
found that's how we first started using
it I found that exporting the audio from
my video and then uploading the audio to
uh phonic then waiting for it encode
then downloading it back and then
transmitting it back into my video was
just a pain yeah that's a lot yeah but
if you're a podcast and you've got an
mp3 file throw it on there let it clean
it up and download it and put it on your
website you're done yeah HD video is a
whole other can of worms that's so
honorable - lets get right into it I've
got a bare-bones install of a boon -
seventeen point ten so here we are it's
November of 2017 as we broadcast this so
this is the current version of a boom -
I'm going to jump into terminal and
there's a couple of prerequisites that
I'm gonna need - to do this and before I
do now I've already downloaded I'll just
let you know just in case we had any
internet dropouts or whatever I already
downloaded off on it but I'll show you
how you can get it if you head on over
to a phonic comm and then up at the top
right hand side once you're logged in so
create an account it's free to do so
you'll see a button that says desktop
apps and when you go there just scroll
down to the one that you're looking for
so as I mentioned we've got the this
standard like single file batch
processor that's a phonic leveler and
then we've got a phonic multitrack now
tonight we're gonna look at the Afon ik
leveler but they're both going to
function fairly similarly but the
multitrack does require that you have
multiple files so this tells you all
about it go there check it out and then
download latest version so once you've
purchased it you can click on that and
then you've got two options mac and
windows so I'm actually going to
download the Windows version ok for my
Linux machine there quick question about
the track you said it requires more than
one track yeah
more than one file more than one track
okay all right so what happens if you
happen to have a single file one day do
you that you want leveler okay but when
you buy one license you're good for both
no they are two different products all
right let's serve two different purposes
now that said you could technically put
your track into the multi if you want
the multi track version you could hack
around it by creating a single file that
is muted right that's just quiet right
and because it's put it as the second
track and so be it
right that's fine or you could do left
and right okay you could separate the
stereo tracks and turn them into two
tracks if you wanted to so now I've
actually so I've already downloaded
those so if I look in downloads there
they are I've got both of them there so
I can't run Windows programs on Linux
you know that so what am I gonna do if I
click on it and what does it do oh it
opens it an archive manager and then
gives me an error so that's the kind of
thing that you're up against on Linux
since Ashley you and I had a little talk
about this using wine and even
VirtualBox or something like that to
virtualize wine allows you to install
and run Windows applications on Linux so
that's what we're going to use it's
basically it's a layer between Linux and
the Windows application that gives you
the capabilities of running Windows
programs so sudo su on aboon - is going
to let me become route and I simply need
to install so I go apt technically I
should do apt update ampersand ampersand
which says if this is successful then
apt install wine and there are two
different versions that I can go with so
if I do app search wine - let's see what
it gives me we've got wine development
and wine stable so right now on November
in November of 2017 stable is 2.0 point
two and development is 2.18 so I
actually want the development version
because it has features that are not
available in the stable version there
they haven't made their way there yet so
I'm gonna get the latest and greatest
it's not considered stable it has some
things that have not passed like full
testing at this point but it works very
very well and we want those extra
features so I'm gonna go apt update
ampersand ampersand apt install wine -
development and if you're having trouble
running some of your Windows programs it
may be because you're running the stable
version of wine because that is it's not
as far along and it's always growing
it's always getting better do you want
to install all this stuff haha we're
here these would I'm doing its what I
said it could've used - - yes and that
would have done it for me so this goes
through now Ubuntu and Linux Debian what
they do is they go out on the web and
they just grab the files and install the
things that you asked for so when I say
I want wine - development it is grabbing
it off the internet and that's what's
happening right here I don't have to
find it on the web I don't have to
compile it I don't have to remember the
days when Linux was complicated you
stand it here enjoying a cup of joe
we're chatting it up and just watching
it download and get it stuff like that
it's just going away going away Oh 100%
now it's extracting there we go so now
it's installing extracting setting up
everything that we need in order to run
Windows programs on Linux and I mean
even as we've just been talking you'd
see how quickly it accesses the files
downloads them installs on legate's it's
not like it takes a long time no this is
no we're talking minutes here all right
I might get a couple steps we're not
gonna make you sit through all of that
though but this is again at the top of
the show I mentioned that we're a live
show so you get to see everything as it
happens so if our internet went down
right now that's happened it's happened
and that's why I downloaded a phonic
ahead of time just in case but why and I
wanted to show you the process of
actually installing that so with wine so
this is only applicable if you're using
Linux ok folks so if you're on Windows
and Mac don't worry about it
with wine now that's it I think you can
install wine on Mac yes you can
so so maybe you do want to listen up if
you're a Mac user and we need to talk
about that exploit that happened this
week as well yes but it allows you to
run a lot of Windows programs on Linux
or Mac presumably so it's not gonna run
every program and as I mentioned we're
going with the development version
because it runs more programs it's got
more features that allow more programs
to work so the stable version maybe you
would have trouble without phonic if you
do make sure you install the development
version mm-hmm I've got wine done so now
you say okay now I can no I can click on
it right well no I still have an error
and so this is where people say and and
I'm saying I'm generalizing but I looked
at forums who were trying to figure out
how can I get off on it to work on on
Linux and people are saying it just
doesn't work and wine doesn't work when
I install it it doesn't do anything and
and you know it doesn't what am I
supposed to do now I installed it so
let's do phase 2 well learn a little bit
of Linux absolutely all right so right
now yeah we can't just double click on
it it's it's not we're not there yet so
what I'm gonna do instead I'm gonna go
into my downloads folder it's case
sensitive on Linux and Mac so those are
my two executive uh files I can't run
them there yeck sees their windows files
but I have wine first of all I notice
that I am currently root ok
you must become non root in order to do
this because a non-word well I've
installed it as root right I need to be
my user because who's gonna use it root
right no fair enough I'm gonna use it so
I need to create my wine profile as
Robby so I'm just gonna type exit which
takes me back to the Ravi user Who am I
Robby if it says Stanley I'm like what
so now that I am me and I'm I'm back
my downloads folder let's get back in
there there we go I'm gonna just simply
type wine yeah ah phonic level urge you
on one win dot exe hit enter first thing
it does is it sets up wine see that the
wine configuration is being updated so
it's not installing yet it's in fact
configurating wine configurating yes
again so I can do that cuz I own the
show so come on now v dictionary it's in
the works it'll be on Amazon by the end
of the year what do you notice look at
that looks a little Windows II it does
mm-hmm I agree
Georg anybody asks I read that where are
you gonna install it now I don't have a
C Drive what are you talking about well
what wine did when I ran it just there
and it configurated itself for a bit
watch this
control al I'm only showing you this
just so that you see there's wine in the
wine full go away made a drive made
a drive see that contains all your
windows stuff it's awesome so it's not a
real drive it's just a folder within
your home folders treat right so that's
where it's gonna actually put it so C is
actually saving in my home folder in a
subfolder of that so I'm just gonna hit
install and just see what happens look
at that go oh yeah nice and quick just
like you would expect right completed
what okay so there's one more thing that
I need to do we're gonna be working with
WAV files wave uses a tool called lame
and unlike the name it is absolutely
awesome so we need to install that again
Linux I need to become rude again and
apt I don't need to update again because
they probably haven't released new
versions in the past five minutes
install lame well that was easy
boom alright so now I can click on to my
applications
and what do I see look at that
auphonic yeah so moment of truth here
folks Willa phonic leveller run on Linux
click it oh it worked ok you have to
activate it I need to activate it
because it is as I said it's a
commercial application right so I'm
gonna grab my password here so we'll
just conveniently change screens perfect
yeah grab that password that's exciting
you like it yeah it makes it you know we
don't come onea what it does yet we
don't but we don't cover wine enough to
show just how to get access to some of
these programs for those who are purely
linux users mm-hmm so it's great to even
show that little component something Oh
install that's off mine blown I'm
installing a Windows program and using
Windows program on a free operating
system did I mention Linux is free ok so
I've got my license there ready to go
I'm gonna hit login BAM
up and running how simple can the
interface be right so that's all there
is to it ok so we need an audio file to
work with here folks so I'm gonna bring
up audacity and we're gonna pretend that
we're gonna be podcasting here pretend
podcaster yeah we're just gonna pretend
what's our pretend podcast gonna be
about oh boy could be about anything and
let's make it about wine why no no the
one that lets you run Windows on oh yeah
supposed to consider reuse that should
be excited by audacity audacity right
it's funny that the Linux native program
is the one that's giving me grief there
we just came up yeah okay so let's start
monitoring here okay I need to turn on
my microphone
I think it's muted no is well it is yeah
[Laughter]
there is no level that's yeah sorry a
phonic can't help you with that
alright let's let's do this podcast hey
how's everybody doing oh you pulled that
rowdy radio oh I have no idea what
you're talking about right so my radio
days oh oh the radio Robbie yeah yeah
and I was on on the air it was way back
in the day yes back in the old school
radio factory I think my audition tape
was like good afternoon
that's just going into audacity we're
powering it directly and so Jeff just
made waves if you will Sasha can I hear
you say can you hear me with it I wonder
I don't know but here's the thing when
when you did a feature where you were
walking around with this bad boy the h4n
he needed auphonic to fix the levels
because you were talking like this and
then you'd hold it out and you were
three feet away from the person you were
talking to which is why I went close so
you've got the day yeah yeah exactly
exactly so let's just you know move this
thing around as if okay so hey here's
Robbie and Jeff hello and over here at
Sasha I can't really reach over because
we're on different case that's all I get
oh yeah exactly
so the point with auphonic is it's going
to make the levels sound a lot better so
let's let's get a look at what's gonna
happen here so I'm just gonna stop our
recording alright and we're gonna go
file export audio I'm just gonna slap
that on my desktop and we're gonna just
call this test dot wave that was a solid
podcast I tuned in every oh yeah
absolutely
god that was educational inspiring
uplifting yeah absolutely
deserve a broadcasting that's we just
got a webby for that okay here we are in
off phonic now at this point it's the
same for Windows Linux Mac so don't you
worry this is this is the same interface
for you so if you're on Windows you
didn't need to do all the wine stuff now
we've got a file here you saw it go in
I'm gonna open it it's on my desktop
which is in home
Robbi desktop test dot wave its grabbed
it so if I've got some low noise hum and
stuff like that I simply can turn on
noise and Hum reduction easy-peasy
it has the adaptive leveler and the
high-pass filter and I've set it to and
I said decibels - 16 decibels no loops
and then we've got all these you know it
shows you the standard - 16 is is pretty
standard for podcasts ok so there we go
files ready to go I'm gonna hit process
all files and that is all I have to do
oh that's it that's it
oh I'm picturing when you're talking
about the software that you're gonna see
like the wave levels and all that it's
ok sonic is is gonna fix the audio for
us all right now let's look at the let's
look at the wave table now so bring that
up into audacity oh I closed acid that's
why they called it that I feel like we
need the jeopardy music here exactly so
but that worked and I mean it went
through and then that was quick and it's
done well I mean the podcast was only
four hours long alright one of the
things that you'll notice it gives you a
little bit of a report here I'm just
gonna see if we can see that behind here
it also detects things like if you've
got music playing and it will it will
find the points that are music and it
will adjust accordingly Wow look at that
notice we don't clip everything looks
clean and levels are and positively
beautiful and I believe this is the
section where I went real close to the
Michael jr. I see yeah I think that was
it you think it is ready so okay
oh I don't know that we can hear yeah
I'm pretty sure that was it so what
we're gonna do let's bring up the the
other file as well so the original so
that you can see the difference as far
as wave table goes so
is a visual representation of the audio
Wow that's our original recording and
how do I ask over Anna phonic let's just
do this that's now okay so yeah that's
worth yeah and even where sasha was
speaking at near the end of the file
there yeah like you could really see the
difference so what I'm gonna do we can't
play this to ourselves right now but
what I'll do is I'm gonna play this for
you so a moment of silence this is a
clip from the original recording now
here is the exact same clip run through
a phonic alright let's let's do this
podcast Hey oh you pulled up Rony radio
can you point with a phonic is it's
going to make the levels sound a lot
better so let's let's get a look at
what's gonna happen here so I'm just
gonna stop our recording and I love how
Jeff was like feigning like Oh
difference so if you're podcasting if
you're doing YouTube videos whatever
you're doing you need auphonic get it at
a phonic calm I'm not kidding it took me
a while to to do it to take to get off
on ik and say you know what I'm gonna
make this a part of my that's so simple
I used to use level later I used to use
all kinds of filters and try to fix
things up myself this does a better job
than any of the other tools that I've
ever used it's a one like just a couple
of clicks to just make your audio sound
absolutely stupendous so there you have
it folks off phonic calm satchel we've
got to head over to the newsroom so if
you are ready my friend I love putting
you on the spot like that cuz I I could
I could look over at the teleprompter
and see that she's not that's fantastic
hey I hope everybody's doing well over
there good yeah
shot away their cotton good good really
weren't ready she's gonna do her hair
this is so typical so typical here are
the stories were covering this week in
the category 5 TV newsroom a hard drive
coming this spring
Uber's driver and customer data has been
compromised and they've paid hackers to
try and cover it up and Skype has been
removed from app stores in China these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
Jeff Weston GEMA you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what
aren't you right you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play I
don't know where I think you're supposed
to act okay I'm building a really cool
website are you building a really cool
website just because Jeff is confused
doesn't mean you have to be visit cap
five dot TV slash DreamHost
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
DreamHost
this
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech stories with a
slight linux bias I'm Sacha Rickman and
here are the top stories were following
this week members of an exclusive club
that is restricted to selected graduates
of Oxford and Cambridge universities are
being warned that computer data
containing their personal details is
feared stolen the club believes that a
backup hard drive has been taken from a
locked room inside its London
headquarters the information stored on
it is said to include names home
addresses phone numbers and some bank
details the 5,000 members including
celebrities such as Stephen Fry have
been there have been affected both the
police and the members have been
notified and private investigators hired
although the Duke of Edinburgh and
Prince of Wales are honorary members of
the club data about them has not been
exposed according to the Telegraph
however it did add that Lord Reese one
of the country's leading astrophysicists
is among those thought to be affected
the UK's Information Commissioner's
Office says that companies need to
protect their patrons data it's
suggesting the use of encryption as well
as ensuring that quality doors and locks
are used Wow so like an actual situation
where information has actually like like
the hard copy has been stolen oh yeah we
have this happen in a Canadian
government office remember that oh yeah
that's right years back when I think it
was like like Social Insurance numbers
and everything yeah if I recall
correctly was like potentially an
Interpol type thing Oh hanging out with
another country oh wow
well there but it's just a hard drive
full of data so here you know 5,000
members and and the hard drive has the
data on it right I wonder if it's an
employee even if it's a lockdown if a in
a very exclusive club so if it wasn't an
employee it's got to be somebody who's a
member of the club and these are folks
that are not probably in need of
stealing a hard drive
I feel like you're implying that
encryption wasn't done like the hard
drive wasn't encrypted I'm not really
saying they did say that it was
password-protected but what that means I
mean is it an Excel spreadsheet with a
password on it that can easily be brute
forced who knows that's the thing that's
not the last of this yeah right all
right the Pentagon's Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency or DARPA is
funding researchers who are working on
some kind of mind-control chips that can
be inserted into human brains to fix
mood disorders the researchers from the
University of California and
Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston
have reportedly begun testing
closed-loop brain implants these neural
implants use artificial intelligence
algorithms to detect various mood
disorders and to deliver electric shocks
to jolt a person's brain back into a
healthy state the implants which
generate electrical pulses to control
human feelings and behavior can
stimulate the brain to treat mental
disorders including dementia and
Alzheimer's experts also believe that
the chips can be beneficial to patients
with a whole range of health issues like
Parkinson's disease and chronic
depression the chips have already been
tested on six volunteers who have
epilepsy and have electrodes implanted
in their brain to help researchers track
what is happening inside their brains
throughout the day as part of their
trial the researchers tracked the
volunteers brain activity and moods in
detail over the course of one to three
weeks and eventually created an
algorithm to decode these changing moods
further analysis helped the researchers
discover that delivering shocks to areas
of the brain that involved
decision-making and emotions can
significantly improve the participants
performance in set tasks such as
matching images of numbers or
identifying emotions on faces the group
is currently working with neuro
ethicists to address the moral
implications of the project that's my
big concern right there is the moral
ethics of the project I mean I think
it's cool if you can get a little chip
that you know potential
we could eradicate some of those things
like epilepsy yeah I mean that'd be
amazing but I mean how quickly could you
turn around and be like well we're just
gonna implant this into our soldiers and
suddenly you're controlling people what
if you're doing it afterwards and
controlling some PTSD
how is this gonna play into marriages
look at my face look at my face do I
look happy no I'm not happy with every
implant you get a free marriage
certificate love this like to help
against something like chronic
depression or absolutely or pure drug
free right drug free solution and what
is the brain but like the organ that is
an electrical impulse machine it makes
sense that it's too complex we don't
understand it you can't just open a
computer and say okay what's wrong with
this I'm gonna start short-circuiting
some of the electrical components see
and some of it isn't like I'm thinking
something like depression right you know
that's a serotonin level like that's not
something that you can you know fix with
a shock to the brain I mean well perhaps
maybe it's not the serotonin that's the
problem it's the the like the reuptake
errs like they cuz depression drug is a
serotonin reuptake inhibitor so the
serotonin gets yes this is what it must
feel like to hear me talk about
computers it's true I was listening to
the radio on my way into the studio
today and and interestingly enough there
was a show on where people were in the
audience we're asking questions and then
they had professionals in the industry
answering these questions it was really
quite entertaining and and informative
and one of the questions was what is the
cause of chronic pain and how how does
it exist if there is no injury right and
the the response from this professional
from a university I didn't catch their
name or anything like that and didn't
even intend to speak about it
said that it is actually the the neurons
in the pain receptors and everything
else misfiring and and providing the
wrong information so you think that
there's pain and your brain says there's
pain and you feel the pain but the pain
doesn't exist and so they can't diagnose
it they can't fix it they can't you know
what do you do how many Warrior amputee
--zz have that what's called phantom
limb syndrome sure you know so I mean
there's a lot of potential good that can
come from this but I think again I go
back to my first comment the moral
implications I think this could go real
bad real fast if it's not reined in
right which is why I'm happy they have
some wasn't neuro ethicists oh yeah that
was good to see but yeah but like
anything where where's the line and who
who gets to control the technology I
would volunteer for this I would
volunteer to have it done and here is
why because it said increased
performance in numbers and functions
could you imagine if finally after
getting a chip implanted in my brain I
would understand the things that Robby
said I don't think it works that way so
helps you focus but take this to the
next level I mean we already know all
the analytics that come from cell phones
and your web usage imagine having that
integrated with the chip that reads your
emotions that's it it reads emotions and
it under in it interprets yeah because
it's it's an AI I mean if it then goes
move hey I can manipulate you from a
marketing standpoint and invoke these
emotions yeah with these I mean like I
mean the sky's the limit with this
technology but man could it go bad and
and you think well they can't control
people's minds they can't put thoughts
into your head and say you know but they
can certainly walk you down the road
well here here here's a suggestion do
this or still that or or beat up that
guy you can't they can't do that it's
not that kind of mind control but have
you ever been you know on your way to
work you're feeling pretty good and some
idiot cuts you off and all of a sudden
there goes your day yeah you know or
somebody you know something happened
somebody mistreats you when you're
checking out for your coffee or
something and and it can ruin your day
and then it affects in turn your
attitude and the way that you treat
other people throughout that day and you
know the shirt folks it's hard yeah it's
hard to regulate emotion in situations
like that the facial recognition for
moods would probably be great for people
who suffer from something like
Asperger's and where they have a really
hard time empathizing because they don't
easily read emotion on others getting a
drone for Christmas just a heads up you
may need to qualify to fly in the UK
under a new legislation planned by the
government
drones weigh more than 250 grams could
also be banned from flying near airports
or above 2 or 400 feet in a crackdown on
unsafe flying police will also be given
new powers to seize and ground drones
which have been used in criminal
activity the bill has been welcomed by
the pilots union which has warned of
near misses involving drones and
aircraft saying that there have been
eighty-one incidents that so far this
year up from 71 in 2016 and 29 in 2015
the union's general secretary Brian
struttin said these proposals are a sate
a step towards the safe integration of
drones but until the new rules are in
place the threat of a serious collision
remains the proposed bill to be
published in the spring would ensure
that owners of drones weighing more than
250 grams would need to register and
take a test Wow
I wonder if that will be like our
written test or a flying test or not be
cool yeah it's actually a race all right
drones flying through a course or
something like that no I think it's a
it's literally just registration and and
answering the test like a g1 or
something it's it's like a written test
yet it's time for that for sure yeah the
UK's Information Commissioner has huge
concerns about ubers data policies and
ethics following a
that exposed the details of 57 million
customers and drivers uber did not tell
anyone about the breach and actually
paid a ransom to hackers to delete the
data Deputy Commissioner James Dibble
Johnson said that these actions were
unacceptable the ride-sharing company
does have a resource page for those who
may be affected Deputy Commissioner
James Dibble Johnson said the
Information Commissioner's Office would
work with the National Cyber Security
Center to determine the scale of the
breach and how it affected people in the
UK as well as considering the next steps
that uber needed to take to comply with
its data protection obligations next
year EU countries will radically alter
data protection laws to offer consumers
greater control over the data that they
share with companies Wow so uber not
only kept the breach a secret but then
paid a hacker I guess today yes when it
comes to uber I feel like they've just
had about 12 months of complete
butt-kicking Ayana I'm just screwing up
front on various levels like every time
they'd gone ahead something went wrong
and they my my feeling is they dealt
with it
not necessarily correctly and this is
just another step in the case and it's
it's too bad if if you pay a hacker to I
guess if you pay a hacker then how do
you know how do they have proof that the
hacker deleted the data that just to sir
you oh yeah I deleted that data the one
that actually leaked the story right now
they have the data and ethical hacker
that they knew or had reference to do
you think so maybe they paid her ransom
I did so that's not very talked about we
talked about them
no that was DJI I'm mixing up my stories
yeah it makes me think about DJI story
last week and how a hacker was using the
the bug bounty program to
show that or to you know submit a bug
yes and had connected I wonder if it's a
similar case to that oh that's true so
in in this particular case though I mean
we got a look at the fact that this is
what over a year ago that this occurred
so now the question comes up well why
are we just hearing about it now who
leaked the information I mean not every
news news sources telling where the
story came from but in fact the this is
it the CEO or not the CEO but the head
honcho anyways that it ooh BRR it was
replaced maybe it was the CEO so that
can get part of it and so he actually
well first of all fired the the folks
that covered it up yes but also then
released press release letting people
know that hey this has happened and it
happened under not under my watch but
under the last guys why and you know so
that that plays into it as well yeah so
he's trying to clean up I think which is
good mm-hmm it's a great service so I
hope that they get it together and
they're able to that's the thing is I
mean they do offer good service
it just it's like man some bad calls
have been made speaking of a good
service Skype call and messaging service
has been removed from app stores in
China including the Apple App Store
Apple says it's one of several apps to
have been removed after the government
said it does not comply with local law
Skype owner Microsoft told the BBC the
app had been temporarily removed and the
company was working to reinstate the app
as soon as possible
the app is also no longer available for
download on Andrew Android app stores in
China media reports suggested
disruptions of Skype started in October
Apple said in a statement we have been
notified by the ministry of public
security that a number of voice over
Internet Protocol apps do not comply
with local law therefore these apps have
been removed from the App Store in China
Skype
when downloaded from outside China's
Firewall has been seen as a semi secure
way of discussing sensitive topics away
from the eyes and ears of China's state
security Skype is just the latest in a
string of foreign owned digital and
Internet platforms including alphabets
Google Facebook and Twitter which are
unavailable to Chinese users Wow
what do they do in China if they don't
have like Twitter and Facebook they have
their own stuff yeah that's right yeah
and it's government monitored and
government controlled regulated and do
you think that it'll ever be a lot I
guess maybe if Skype allows it to be
monitored yeah that would be the thing
if Skype were to put servers in China
and make them monitor a bull by the
government then but see the way the way
things work though is when there's an
app that works well somebody in China
comes up with their own version of it
right I see it all the time so it's only
gonna be a matter of time before they
have their own version of Skype which
will then have integration with regular
Skype but because they'll they'll be
there back they won't be allowed to do
integration they won't be able to tap
into calling to Skype because that's the
whole thing that's about regulating
although as you say if it was if it was
a regulated app that was connected to
Skype then that app could be yes could
it could I can't see that's such a hard
thing could you imagine being a software
developer and releasing something like
Skype maintaining its servers
maintaining the service making it so
that I can call China for free and then
having them to shut it down yeah
there's potentially a billion plus
customers right now I cannot imagine Wow
China's a big country you want to be
able to market to them and have services
accessible so maybe Skype will come up
with a way of making it far more
accessible and then be allowed to
reintegrate I think about all the like
foreign exchange students and everything
and you know that's how we communicate
back with with you know parents
it's family members and stuff so that's
certainly be tough tough on them views
like I know with some of the online
games that I play you know we keep
connected outside with an app called
discord and it's got the right shot -
that'll be blocked if it isn't already
well there's lots of users from China
yeah yeah I mean you've got kale which
is also a Chinese chatting app I believe
they've just added video integration you
know so I mean there's lots of other
ways around it it's no different than
like whatsapp or whatever so yeah there
are the ways but yeah for now
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories tests this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your attack news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman Thank You Sasha this is category
5 technology TV or shall I say this has
been category 5 technology TV it's been
great having you here I'm gonna be here
next week I don't think they can be here
yeah I will be here like week I hope
that you will be here next week and you
know again get on to our YouTube channel
it's been erupting over there as of late
I stirred the pot when I said a
raspberry pie killer yes apparently
that's something you're not supposed to
say that was like a hornet's nest you
kicked lots of people yes not just not
opinionated but loyal loving fans of the
raspberry pie oh yes oh yes but I see
and you tried to comment on it many
times I think the thing that was missed
is that it's not necesarily that's a
raspberry pie killer but it's the fact
that you get four times the speed at
double the price like just the price
point standpoint some people could go
why would I not move over to here and so
yeah and I'm certainly at that point
where I want something faster more
powerful for certain projects but I
still use my PI 3 for a bunch others I
just ordered one on Monday there you go
yeah
if you're not sure what we're on about
go to linux tech show calm you'll see
the video if you click on videos there's
a there are a couple of videos about the
Raspberry Pi as of late about the Odroid
xu4 queue this is what I called the
Raspberry Pi killer it is an 8 core
single board computer so you know it's
certainly something that makers are
really keen on really excited about but
what this has done what this whole you
know the the eruption of comments and
everything on that video has done for us
is we're really looking at introducing
more SBC single board computer features
so more hands-on demos we've done a lot
we've shown how to install Plex on it
we've shown how to do retro pie and that
kind of stuff so we're gonna start doing
more comparison so that you can judge
for yourself what what board is right
for you so if you're interested in that
if you want to start making your own
little computers and and things that you
can you know connect to your TV and surf
the web on a thirty five to sixty dollar
little single board computer it's pretty
cool stuff it's a lot of fun you'll want
to tune in subscribe on our YouTube
channel and and see what we're gonna be
up to over the next little while that's
all the time that we have this week
right thanks you too and thanks to you
hope that you have a great week yeah
