welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number five twenty eight
thirty eight thirty it's five thirty
eight already Wow tonight we're gonna
learn more about lint inspire Linux and
its rereleased it's a rebirth from the
grave we're gonna be speaking with one
of the new owners and learning about how
their company is going to bring you'll
inspire back
what kind of Linux experience they have
in developing and distributing Linux
distros and we're gonna get some insight
into the controversy from days gone by
with the old Linn spire as well but
perhaps most importantly we're gonna
learn how the Newlands fire is gonna
give back to open source stick around
we've got that interview coming right up
also here's what's coming up in the
category five TV newsroom we'll explain
the latest threat dust meltdown and
Spector lithium-ion batteries in HP
notebook computers and mobile
workstations that are not customer
replaceable are being recalled will tell
you which products are affected so stick
around
remember the VTech hacker for Iran back
in 2015 the FTC has finally reached a
settlement deal with the toy maker and
Toyota is working with a handful of
companies to create an autonomous
electric fleet of vehicles stick around
the full details are coming up later in
the show
this is category five technology TV
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 dot TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 dot c v /t p n and the
international association of internet
broadcasters cat 5 dot TV slash ia IB
welcome to the show it's episode number
528 and it's so nice to have you here
now we've got a fun show planned for you
I mentioned that we are on Kodi there at
the top of the show
Kodi being like a multimedia player and
sweet our channel has been upgraded nice
one point one point four was released
this week thank you to the community for
helping out and just a note now when I
showed our Kodi channel on the show we
had the problem happen but I didn't know
because it was working on all of my
other computers it turned out that the
problem with our Kodi channel showing a
blank screen was something to do with
Cody itself being a particular version
and there were like a few different
versions that had some compatibility
issues that has been fixed right so head
on over to our website category 5 dot TV
scroll all the way to the bottom click
on subscribe and you'll see our Kodi
channel there and if you if you already
have it and it's working great still
upgrade that's gonna give you the latest
and greatest channel mmm category 5 now
I want to mention over the past few
weeks we've been talking about 4k
cameras and we've been using 4k cameras
and we had we've got four of them that
we're reviewing and comparing tonight's
show however we are foregoing the 4k
comparison what what why would we do
that well it's because there was a huge
announcement this past week that through
our schedule out the window and so
tonight instead we are going to be
talking about Lyn
inspire seven yes very cool but I want
to tell you a Skype video interview is
not a good way to demonstrate a 4k
camera why cuz the video quality may be
a little less than you're used to when
it comes to Skype video right that's
okay so next week we're gonna be
reviewing and showing off the the final
camera in our four camera set that's the
JBC hm 170 you look good in 4k thank you
you too sighs hey do you know a lot of
viewers have been sending in questions
comments and we've got kind of a Bank of
these all set aside and we know that
you've sent in your questions so if you
have sent a question as of late and you
haven't heard it on the air yet we have
booked next week's show as a viewer
question extravagant
it's like merry Christmas to me again
it's a great opportunity for us to to
converse with our communities so and
also maybe maybe maybe maybe and
hopefully help you out with some of your
tech issues or whatever else like it I'm
excited to it Jeff you were mentioning
before the show can we bring up your
data theft issues yeah something that so
something happened on my computer a lot
okay so last weekend the show I was
telling you how my computer went walking
it was taking 10 minutes to load yeah
and this is a new computer that we
reviewed on the show about a year and a
half ago so it's not an old system right
I'm very careful on what I do but there
was two days where was going crazy slow
and all sudden it's working fine again
and you thought maybe it was a driver
issue or something I thought maybe the
bootloader
maybe I wouldn't be that - as I've got a
dual boot as you mentioned it was the
boot process that was taken along right
so Monday I get an alert from ESET
because I've got the ESET protection on
my computer that there was unauthorized
attempt to access my computer through a
dummy account
and Oh what through the dummy account
like RDP sessions or something I'm
trying to connect in oh it didn't say
just said we flagged an unauthorized
access to your dummy account and so
we've locked it out you misread it Jeff
is we flagged unauthorized access you
dummy well that could be a two and then
in the last well I mean that was Monday
so we're a couple days and in so in the
last couple of days I've received alerts
that all of my email accounts have been
accessed from various countries like how
Gmail sends you an email saying yes so
change passwords not yet because they've
all come in today as I mean I works I
haven't like this is like fresh off the
press stop I've got a couple Gmail
accounts I've got a GMX account and
they've been accessed in Russia and
India and you have not been in Russia
nor yeah in the last week no okay so
yeah and I'm on the break you should get
in and start changing all your past well
that's what I do think that's you know
what that tends to be if somebody hacks
your accounts one of the first things
they want to do is change your password
so that you get locked it absolutely so
I'm sitting here going wow this is nuts
I've never been party to data theft and
it oppressive that is what's happened so
yeah question on my computer because
it's a that's clean so I'm wondering how
they got in so ESET said alert yes but
it was too little too late so and I
bring up RDP Remote Desktop Protocol
yeah a lot of us have remote access
turned on on our computers so that when
we're at work or wherever we can access
it and do our stuff right and by happens
by default because I wouldn't know if
mine was on or not I would never choose
some version my computer yeah in some
versions it is but file and printer
sharing Remote Desktop Protocol these
are all ways that your system is shared
yes I just had a lightbulb moment Oh
on Friday I contacted QuickBooks because
I was having an issue with my QuickBooks
and they used a lab service where they
could have they opened up a remote
stop can i yes some sort so what's
interesting about remote desktop and
these kinds of services is that people
can try to hack into your account and
you would be none the wiser
right they guess at your password they
guess an administrator we know is a
username on a Windows machine so that's
the first place to start and then try
all kinds of brute-force attacks and
you'd never know right until they get in
yeah but then it's too little too late I
wonder if there's something related to
the service that they used perhaps maybe
it left some residual behind and it was
legitimately Intuit that you talked to
yeah yeah yeah legit so just something
about their software yeah that's an
interesting kind of thought that we have
to be careful even if we're dealing with
her legitimate companies that may be the
software that they're using could leave
some residual dahye intact them yeah
thanks frightening yeah that's well on
that note have you ever had the
experience of data theft or have you
suspected such a thing Jeff has got to
take a really quick moment to change all
his passwords that's the first thing he
needs to do and we're gonna take a quick
break when we come back we're gonna be
checking out Lin spire 7 you heard me
right I'm excited
stick around Jeff Weston Jemma you're
building a brand-new beautiful website
what are you you're a terrible actor
what this where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host welcome
back this is category five technology TV
back at the end of December at nutty Pro
69 on Twitter sent us a message and said
a category 5 TV Lynn spire was the very
first Linux operating system I tried
because of you guys back in the day and
today it is free from PC - open systems
comm whoa that's nothing wait yeah
are you nutty Lynn spires been gone for
ten years now my friends so not long
yeah 10 years 2007 so 11 years what yeah
I do miss it you opened me up to inspire
Lynn spire was a great distro that was
set up in such a way that it was built
for the desktop yes it's Linux but it
was built to help people migrate from
Microsoft Windows to the Linux platform
and is so good oh it was very very good
especially for the time now here's the
thing I warned the nutty one and said
you've got to be careful because anyone
who's claiming that Lynn spire is
available for free right now
this is this is an old distro that was
discontinued yeah and it was commercial
it was a commercial been free right so
then I started looking into it and guess
what what tell us PC open Systems LLC
purchased the source code of Lyn spire
they purchased the trademarks of Lyn
spire so everything including not just
Lyn spire but also free spire which is
the free open-source version gay of Lyn
spire being the commercial distro we're
gonna learn all about it tonight here's
the thing
Lyn spire as we mentioned was always
like the best desktop OS way back in the
early days yes like we're talking 2001
yeah and for Linux oh yeah yeah yeah so
it started out as Lindos OS yes and then
like 12 months later Microsoft got word
of this and sued them yes just like they
there without micro because it rhymes
yeah so so they had to change their name
and it became Lyn spire but Lindos Lyn
spire they're synonymous they're done in
the same but here's one of the things
that really was a big deal about Lyn
spire and Lindos in particular so that
it was the first Linux operating system
to find retail distribution yes we're
talking Walmart and Sears and like you
could walk into a big box store and for
199 bucks
pick up a computer that has Linux on it
and it was Windows OS those were the
days fairly certain I bought mine from
future shop really we're around 450
miles can you ok so last week I said I
had last week I sat at the disc yeah
right where is it I don't have the disc
no I was cleaning out my drawer turns
out I tossed the disc know what I have
the case the case though it did spark
joy but I thought we would never need it
well exactly I thought hey it's obsolete
so I use anymore what's the point of
having it right
little did I know two weeks later I'd
need it first for like wonderful
topical nostalgia purposes well and if
you want some nostalgic go back to
episode number 303 because I found an
old laptop in my storage area that had
Lin Lin spire 5 installed on it so check
that out episode number 303 now ten
years ago the final version of Lin spire
came out yeah and then the company was a
it was dissolved yes it went under and
we're gonna talk a little bit about that
in just a few minutes time with someone
in the know but out of the blue back on
January 2nd of this year that's when we
got the the announcement officially so
we saw that they were giving it away for
free at the end of December but
officially January 2nd of this year it
was announced that they had purchased
the trademarks in the source code and
it's time to bring Lin's fire back from
the grave so would you help me welcome
Roberto Jade on eart he is the lead
consultant and system designer for PC
open systems LLC it's important to note
that Lin's fire is now owned by a
completely different company so can you
introduce us please to to your company
and how it differs from sale in spire we
not only do software development we also
do hardware development I mean by
hardware development is is that like
with our software we have a customer our
ISO project where we take a completely
bare system and start whatever programs
you need and whatever through drivers
you need in the system the hardware side
is the same way pretty much you tell us
what you need when it comes to hardware
we build it for you well we take a
generic system and add those components
and then we ship it out to you so what's
your self what's your experience as far
as Linux distributions go I've all went
back to Gen 2 I started actually
developing Linux distributions back in
2006 I start with a gem to base
and I start with her without racism
Olivia heard about PCOS pretty much was
just the initials of the company and
basically what it was was to give our
customers a long-term supported
distributional atlantic's that they
could use and just back then I don't
know if you remember but the lifespan of
these the Disco's only like six months
right and if you're using gen 2 you
don't want to have to reinstall every
six months let me tell you that right
and so back then the live show is only
like six months and corporations that a
hard time adopting it especially on
their desktops because they want
something that lasts years not just
months
and so that was one of the main problems
that we had so we went ahead and went
that approach we made into where we
would update it we would distribute it
but we would go through all the hard
work that have the apply updates patches
drivers etc so you've been distributing
your own linux distribution since as far
back as that Wow so why now here in 20
20 18 are we all of a sudden hearing
that you've bought Lynne spire of all
things well we bought Zandro we bought
the entire thing from bridge ways I love
you know what bridge ways was what they
like they hold the trademarks and things
like that right and what they did was
that they also produce some connectivity
products for Windows okay and whether
they started but they were going down
the way of the dodo so we went ahead and
talked to them
doctor trademarks and everything got
some other properties from them and but
we were done with black lab and I want
to really see that for them as a
community the distribution and I want to
see that thrive with with the community
because one of the things is that if you
have a community edition then you have
the commercial edition what happens is
sometimes the commercial aspect of it
gets in the way
in the community well he doesn't want
you to actually get involved in it
because they feel hey as a community is
a commercial interest not a community
interest right and so what we decided
was we need to go ahead and find a way
to break away from the community this is
and black lab being your distribution
that you were currently distributing
right okay and we figured we needed to
go ahead and get hardway keep that to
the community and find another way to
keep our commercial interest separate
from it
hmm and so this way it doesn't pollute
the waters as something sure looks at so
when you speak about when you speak
about the differentiation between the
Community Edition and the commercial
edition are we talking free Spier versus
Lynn Speier here or well black those
always come from was always a server
type yes yeah and what happened was is
that we is that I wanted to start back
to going to desktops where we have free
expires well these fires right free
desktop OS rained out
I don't know if you've read our
marketing you need things like that
right I know I sent your eyes of Limbs
fire yeah and we're gonna take a look at
that in a few minutes time but and it's
all very sudden I mean this is a big
announcement all of a sudden the you
know surprise Lynne spires back and it's
taken a lot of people you know by storm
especially those of us who used it back
in the day now when will inspire
shutdown however you know we can talk
about all the great things that Lindos
and Lynne Speier did but of course when
they shut down there was a lot of
controversy surrounding the company like
Michael Robertson was suing the bank he
was suing the staff who created the very
OS free open source software advocates
were condemning Lynn's fire for being
kind of against the the foss mindset so
you have to understand and you must be
very aware more so than even myself of
the kind of controversy that you have
bought into with the Lynn's firebrand in
that all of a sudden you're bringing
back to light not just a great distro
but
all of the controversy that surrounded
that distro so how do you with this new
version understanding that this lint
spire is a Newlands fire based on the
old one brought out by a new company how
are we going to address those kinds of
concerns from the community and and all
the kind of negativity that surrounded
Lynne spire Inc back in the day
well if you look at free spire right now
please fire basically we did we removed
all the proprietary codecs we have some
proprietary drivers in there but they're
mostly for the hardware that they need
to support that people wanted to support
yeah and so on but we want to do is
create own free spire have something
that the Foss people can use as well as
just any generic computer news regimes
and so and we want to educate the public
especially not the Foss public the
people that just computer users in
general about that free and open source
software pure freedom so free and open
source software can actually thrive and
is usable because right now if you look
at the landscape people say with boss
the distributions out here that layer
GNU sorcerer certified that's great if
you look at those a lot of people have
this thinking in their head that they're
very hard to use and they're good if
they're free if they're free you mean
without the proprietary coax and all
that exact
yeah and so we wanted to do was go ahead
and introduce we absolutely aspire okay
as something that the Boston team can
get behind and I something any computer
hidden hid behind so just and one I
don't know if you remember this but
Lynne spire incorporated used to
actually it was forty five dollars or
forty nine dollars a year that was no
click and run access and all that stuff
yeah right can can I just touch on
before we get into that can I just back
up just a little bit for those viewers
who are watching here Roberto that maybe
you're not familiar with free open
source and what's the difference between
free versus because when we think free
we think about something that's given
out that's Wednesday right but if when
we talk free open
source software like free spire and
removal of proprietary codecs what we're
talking about is things like mp3 the
ability to play mp3 files is a
proprietary thing so this is something
that a patent has to be paid for in
order to do legitimately so Lynne spire
was you know the you would pay for that
distro and it would come with all this
great stuff available built into that
where the the free open source versions
of Linux would not include those things
because they are proprietary so I kind
of felt like at the time so we're going
back to you know 2006 I think and around
there when free spire came out I believe
it was around there it kind of felt like
Lynn's fire ink was reacting to the open
source communities condemnation of the
commercial 'ti of Lynn's fire by
bringing out free spire I mean somebody
else actually brought out the first free
spire version which was a stripped down
version of Lynn's fire so I'm getting
the impression from our conversation
here and and I would love to hear your
perspective on this but getting the
impression that that your company on the
other hand has more of a community
centric focus with the commercial 'ti
aspect as well for the commercial
customers and Ubuntu Ubuntu has taken a
similar route canonical with
distributing the OS for free and then
having commercial support whereas you're
talking about having a free version
available and then having a commercial
version for the commercial user now am i
right in that you know from from just
hearing you speak I'm feeling like
there's more of a community focus here
and is that because of codecs and
drivers and things like that or there
are other projects things right things
that we actually have to pay for right
and or be able to distribute them right
see like somebody came to me the other
day an email I was like oh I can go to
the ability repositories and install the
codecs
well the thing is with those those
licenses that advertise are single-use
on them which means you have to go
download them because only you can use
them but if you pull them down and
recreate added and resend the mood to
and try to distribute it then the issue
that you want to do is licensing no
right now I think a lot of people get
away with it because they're not a
corporation they're not write a business
and there's no police coming to your
door saying have you got mp3 codecs
installed right doesn't happen yeah
whereas you know where PC open systems
canonical redhack Novell SUSE or micro
focus or iPhones and now okay
yeah where or targets and we and we and
we pretty much are like you can't
we have to be very careful of what we
distribute because as an entity we're
more like the other target okay
you see what I'm saying yeah so I could
see like a corporate environment with
150 computers needing to deploy Linux if
they had to install a free open-source
version of Linux and then install all
the codecs of the now it could be done
through package management and maybe a
script and things like that but what
you're doing is offering something that
it's out-of-the-box ready to go it's got
the commercial aspects already built in
and expect other advantages as well is
there a real you know is there any other
differentiation between free spire and
Linn spire that you know free
downloaders would need to know about
like if I can install the codecs myself
on my own personal computer I'm okay
with that
what what else is different about it and
we also include advanced security
measures like antivirus intrusion
detection yep and things like that we
also include that and VirtualBox comes
pre-installed as well now one thing that
I'm trying to do and some people in the
Linux mean you're gonna hate me for it
and I'm actually trying to work with
CodeWeavers to see if I can get
crossover office we can actually put
into our own repository so users can get
that
I'm gonna say for you guys it's gonna be
free of charge for us you know obviously
that's them but also I'm trying to work
out an agreement with some other
entities for commercial operating
systems to actually that you can
actually install rocks and inspire doing
idea how many if not being with me
please VirtualBox and also be supported
that way nice so again for those who are
not really familiar with these terms
CodeWeavers wine and VirtualBox similar
reason for having those things
CodeWeavers and wine are kind of
connected in a way that they use the
same software base but they allow you to
install Windows programs on a Linux
operating system so that's key here so
we're talking about having a commercial
version of Linux that out of the box
supports that and is licensed for that
VirtualBox on the other hand allows you
to install windows into Linux which I
great thing as well if you want to be
able to say you can't get it to run in
wine right so different VMs for each
individual application
oh yes that could be brutal from a user
standpoint for sure so this is
definitely much more user friendly for
the novice user and I like this Roberto
because I feel like I'm I'm personally
getting a better understanding of why
you have to sell Lynne's fire and how it
differs from free spire so me as a
person personal user with Linux
experience I can install freeze fire and
I can install all these things I can get
CodeWeavers in VirtualBox and I can say
except the user terms and that's between
me and Oracle and me and code runners
for me to accept those licensing
agreements but with Lynne spire you have
included the acceptance of these license
agreements the payment to them for the
proprietary use of their software and
now I've got something that if I'm not a
Linux user if I don't know how to set
that stuff up hey hey pay the little bit
extra and get a version that's already
set up for me that's cool looking
some of the controversy surrounding
Lynne's fire here's one for ya
Lyn spire was always running as the root
user are we still going to have a
desktop that is running as the root user
or out of the docs thank you all right
you know and I thought what make
something there to a lot of your user
had to have asked me if I plan to
redistribute the classic rise so the
classic version and we thought about
that we really did but pretty much
they're useless right now yeah
click and run there anymore and there's
really no point and redistributing the
classic iso's except for maybe in a
style two reasons sure you know what I
would like to see that would be a
support nightmare yes I don't care about
the ISOs I don't care about the disks
yeah as far as the software that's on
them but I would love to get my hands on
one of the old Lindos box sets because
they had retail distribution and I can't
for the life of me find that box because
as soon as you made this announcement we
all went to our garages and looked for
the old boxes and unfortunately they've
all been recycled
Jeff one of our hosts here has the the
the case itself for Lynn aspire and
Lindos but has recycled the discs and
the box itself so those kinds of things
for nostalgic purposes are there so did
you get access to the original source
code during the acquisition oh yeah okay
so we're looking at this is officially
really Lindos lynn spire and how has it
changed with the release of Lynn's fire
seven this month from Debbie back to me
- okay okay it's on a Bluetooth 16 foot
of 4.3 we do have some driver changes
and everything that young that don't get
from the boom - and so and like you said
we removed the whole group user think
that we actually thought about that
there was a reason why they did that
before before they did that because
Windows was going that
okay and they wanted their software to
be as much like Windows as possible
right people have the same kind of
interaction and we looked at Matt I was
like well that's crazy these days so and
you know I had some people coming though
it's not the same well it's not meant to
be the same you know no force we're
gonna make improvements we're gonna make
changes we keep going to make these
changes into this distribution yeah we
certainly we don't need a one-to-one
Windows alternative here and what I
think is important and what I think
Lindos really hit on back in 2001 2003
was that we need and and there are other
distros out there that are doing a fair
job of this but Lindos ands and rose
were always at the forefront back in the
day we need something that's a good
alternative and easy to migrate over to
linux lin Lindos was my first Linux
operating system where I could remove
lint windows completely from my system
and switch to Linux so that's what I
think what's exciting about that you
started talking about CNR click and run
is that still something that's available
on the inspire anything around these
days right you don't need to have a
special infrastructure for doing this
except for the fact that we are gonna
add some commercial repositories to
inspire ok that's a good call I think
that's a good call
click and run was their proprietary
front-end for I guess apt the
installation packages right it was
brilliant but now we've got a pitch for
example which is doing a very similar
thing to what click and run did which
was give you a packaged software that
you could just install by clicking on it
just like an exe like a setup dot exe
and Windows or an MSI file that's what I
can run did but through package
management we can do the same through
app image we can do the same nowadays so
lots change so I think that's a good
call to deprecate that for sure yeah
and then we also have support for staff
packages in there you can well people
who learn you have to use snap packages
we also do support snap packages and for
lens fire HPC which is a high
performance computing desktop we also
have support for some UNIX applications
as well as more fedora and Red Hat based
software like the Installer stem cell
rpm and things like that so you don't
have to use a lien anymore right okay so
we don't have to convert to Deb packs
that's as you see though that's not on
the regular this is our this so oh this
is a different district the Newlands
right okay lose fire HPC which is our
high-performance beauty that's right
what was destined it's not something
like you would use right there
okay researchers yeah things like that
it'll be neat to get familiar with your
product line as it grows I mean this is
again a very new announcement the very
fresh announcement coming out of of your
company so you know it's all you have
been but we're just like what Lynne
spires back like the internet is abuzz
absolutely so with your community focus
and we we had a very oh no doubt yes
that we had a lot of betas that came out
between them had we have its yeah betas
throughout the year and we had to make
sure we hadn't tell people look you
can't disturb you yeah okay was it make
sure you get me on your list okay yeah
we'll keep it on the down-low with your
community focus Roberto how is Lynne
spire
I mean free spires the obvious answer
but take it one step further how is
Lynne spire going to give back and this
goes back to howl inspire Inc did things
wrong how are you going to give back to
open source changes are gonna go back
into the community of course anything we
changed in the kernel anything we
changing the software so we will
absolutely contribute to contribute that
back to
the communities that large such as xfce
which are desktop is based off the
kernel thought old guys and things of
that nature and also another thing too
is that another that yes you have to pay
subscription license for a year okay and
but unlike little inspired in where they
charge forty nine ninety ninety here
that was mandatory for us it's not you
pay at one time
that's your support contract right if
after a year you decide you don't want
support or you don't need support really
don't cut off access any kind of any
kind of software ok Software Center was
still run and everything but the thing
is if you don't pay the support non
drivers like when 8.0 comes out you
won't get that but you will be supported
you'll get all ok Fortson all the
updates you have support for your
currently installed version but just not
a roll up to the next which is it which
is you know that's that makes sense in
light of the fact that we're
understanding now that this is for
commercial use and in a business
environment where you know you're paying
licensing fees and you're paying for
proprietary stuff so you know and I'm a
software sales person myself it
professionally and I understand that you
know there are fees associated with
things moving forward so from a free
spire perspective on the other hand so
looking at the Community Edition the one
that I might install on my home computer
for free is there support provided for
that one the free version ok they don't
care they don't care about the
proprietary codecs they don't care about
the proprietary software right you know
so that was one thing that we looked at
too and you know some people were like
what do you need to get support for a
year for free spiders so so inside on
$29.99 for that one because it's much
less to support sure yeah so for a home
user or business that wants to just use
a basic install or whatever it makes
sense
so we'd encourage comments below I I
think we've really touched on a few
points tonight that help us to
understand first of all howl inspire
seven and forward is going to be
different from the old inspire I
certainly get a different let's say aura
from you Roberto than I do from your
predecessor Roberts yes and Robertson
definitely a character so the you know
the the old founder of Lynne spire
certainly had a very different business
model very different mindset and so you
know but but amazing software and a
really good grasp on what users really
need in order to make the transition
from Windows to Linux so this could be a
real answer to that and as no you go
ahead sorry especially towards the
latter years back when I felt like it
was gonna shut down yeah was that a
feeling in 2006 after seeing what they
were doing and they were trying to make
clicking run available for everybody
it kind of felt like to me they were
looking for a way out yeah and then some
of the stuff that they were doing at the
time just made no sense to me
and then the qaul' controversy and Kevin
came up and my polling it just turned to
a free crap storm and it really did was
sad the way it ended yeah no I
absolutely agree and that's where that
my initial question came out like this
is the controversy that you have bought
into my friend so so I'm eager you know
maybe this is step one of this interview
of you know the community understanding
the difference here and I really hope
that we've established that tonight so
really looking forward to all that
you've got to come how can we obtain a
copy of free spire or Lynn's fire at
this point will inspire go to
www.barbecuetricks.com
which is on that same page in URL go to
open-source labs they go down to freeze
fire and you can actually download
through spider right there or if you
need that support you can actually
purchase it there as well go but you can
free that you're free to download it
free the redistribute free give them
away as many times you want
you heard it here folks any hope of
getting the coms
I'm try to yeah but the thing is that
was set up this is part of the craft
store we're talking about Michael
purchased free spire org because of the
issue that he was having with Kevin at
the time I didn't Kevin do that wasn't
it Kevin Oh calm oh okay because I know
Michael was trying to get free spire
comm from him right yeah he's fired and
that was part of his trademark lawsuit
that he had Kevin yeah was that he
wanted to prove that he had a product
potpourri spire even though he had
already sold it to Zander made no sense
to me he already sold the damn thing
well because free spire comm was set up
specifically to speak on Michael
Robertson's business practice it's a bit
of a political crapshoot as you say yes
oh yes alleged because when I was
talking about it I'm like yeah I better
say alleged because otherwise I'll get
sued yes and you do I guess that's
another thing is you've got to be really
careful because you bought into the
Michael Robertson Empire which back in
the early days was was you know he was
doing some great stuff but you know his
business practices and things did not
end up well for mp3.com or Lynn spire
Inc or any of those so good luck some
people said that he started lindos and
that they felt that he started Lindos is
way a muddy ground for Microsoft does
some people say he thought he was going
yeah he knew then I actually don't agree
cuz I'm like I said actually read a lot
of the stuff that you have back there
from now an insider's view of it and I
really think that to give him some
credit I think you really
to do something great I don't think it
was just a money grab like you have an
mp3 dot
oh yeah no he he's a brilliant guy and
and he built some really brilliant
things not not to you know digress but
I'm sure the questions will come up but
like mp3.com is a great example of
something that he built from the ground
up that was amazing but then where it
all went wrong is the sellout and the
absolute lack of care for his community
where everybody who was a user on
mp3.com
when what I just lost all my files I
just lost as an artist I lost my ability
to sell my CDs and now someone else owns
it and has turned it into something else
same thing happened with Lynn spire
where all the users were left going what
what happened right these lifetime users
and people that bought the lifetime
subscription mm-hmm and they're like are
you guys not out of that yeah and those
guys here we actually did talk about
that every actually to think about that
and you know we're not required to
support it but one thing that - one
thing that we decided was for $59.99 we
were gonna go ahead and reestablish them
as life tardiness to where they won't go
ahead and yet Lynne spire get this and
that's for the lifetime of the product
that's cool because they did seem like
it did seem like they got crapped on
yeah I I have no I have no records from
back then idea did you obtain a list of
lifetime subscribers so if you were a
lifetime Lindos Lynch buy an invoice and
prove it to me that's tough yeah that's
tough Wow
okay thank you up there they get their
subscription well that's cool I get
their cooking voices and stuff so they
can come to me with an invoice then yeah
oh dude the stuff that we got from lens
fire and like I said it was poorly
managed towards the air is what we got
was what Xandra thought yeah and they
there's a lot it they just put it in a
box in the back room
they just put it in a box in the back
room when they acquired right pretty
much so that why I'm pretty much we got
a bunch of USB keys and the keys like
128 kilobytes you guys are um a megabyte
USB keys oh wow a bunch of files a box
of paperwork and we're like this is it
wow that one's some hard drives here's
all the source code they're gonna do it
start making copies
well Roberto I am encouraged by
everything that we've heard here tonight
a different company same great OS but
with major improvements and a community
focus I think we're really on the right
track here with will inspire and I'm
excited personally to see what comes of
this so so all the best to you thank you
for your time and and we'll definitely
post a link below and if you have any
questions for Roberto for myself if you
want to know more about the Newlands
fire make sure you visit their website
and is there a direct way that they can
contact you on the website I suppose yes
on the website especially my above mine
up there from Center on safe or fire
page great to Facebook do you have a
community forum at this point now yeah
we're sitting where the works again that
set up great but we do have a Facebook
page that we allow the community to
actually talk versus do everything day
Mac so that's on top of the page from
let's fire OS page they can just click
like and they can join in the
conversation and there's we get the
forum set up we'll definitely send you
guys a link and we'll put that up there
as well appreciate that
alright well thanks for time man and
keep up the great work really excited
about everything was to come we've gotta
take it really quick
we've got to take a quick break when we
come back we're gonna actually take a
look at Lin spire 7 stick around
you've got mad skills
now hone them learn new skills or
improve your existing ones with online
video tutorials and training from
lynda.com through our special link at
cat5 dot TV slash Lynda learn software
technology creative and business skills
you can use today to help you achieve
your professional goals join today and
start learning we'll give you this
chance to try it absolutely free with
unlimited access to all of the courses
sign up now for free cat5 dot TV slash
linda welcome back this is category five
technology TV how cool is that awesome
we were chatting during the break there
and started talking about the whole fact
that the URL is getting you know a
little difficult to figure out yes word
of mouth is an important thing so we've
did a search and found lynn spire linux
comm so let's just gonna set that up and
get that up and going so by the time you
watch this lynn spire linux comm check
it out okay
ready to take a look at Lynn spire seven
yes again go back to episode number 303
to see how the old version looked and
ladies and gentlemen I'd like to
introduce you to Lynn spire seven is a
fresh clean install and as we learn
there during the interview this has got
some commercial components I see first
and foremost Google Chrome nice not a
commercial application you don't have to
pay for it right but it is not free open
source software so but nice that it's
there I wonder then if if I can like get
straight on to things like Netflix and
that kind of stuff should we give it a
try what kind of things do we want to
check out you're good alright so we
should find that people who have data
theft me destroy them that's right if I
can remember my
Netflix password because I sign in about
once every 10 years there we go nice
we've got Peppa Pig on demand get that
nice
alright so does it work out of the box
whoops um went wrong okay so we we've
done this before where we can let's see
if I can remember how to do this but
we've done it on the show
DRM video you know what I'm not even
gonna don't worry
you can make it work in Chrome go back
to our website and do it yes for Netflix
Chrome and you'll be able to get it
going right chrome is already
pre-installed I didn't have to go
through and set it up so that's cool
alright so let's get a look what do we
have let's go all woohoo so first of all
what do you notice this looks very much
like a windows yeah I like the nostalgia
of seeing these colors is just it's
bringing me back
I'm loving this yeah this is very
similar to the original look and feel
yeah I like now this is my first time
loading anything on here so if there if
it uses a selection of backgrounds I
like to stylize things although I just
want to make sure I can put it back yeah
there's the Lynne spire one because I
don't want to lose the Lynne spire well
yeah
oh look a the nice smooth I like how
zippy it is sweet how was the the boot
on this computer super fast super fast
now I've got a bit of a more decent
computer than I did back in the day of
Lynne spire but so look at all the stuff
that comes with it and out of the box it
worked just fine
it's got my networking and Wi-Fi one of
the things that he mentioned was the
loss of click and run yes but I noticed
that the icon is still the same so let's
bring that up and see what that looks
like
welcome to software
very ingenious name mm-hmm
sweet okay so one of the things that I'm
gonna want is the GIMP
so GNU image manipulation program how
would I find that oh look at that it
even shows you what apps are already
installed so you don't even that's nice
where do you see that well like oh it
has a little icon yeah ah okay now that
is a nice feature sweet
okay so graphics what do we have we've
got blender a nice dark table we've
looked at those on the show and GIMP GNU
image manipulation program like that
install sweet enter my password and as
easy as that looks like she's going nice
that's nice okay so now I'm assuming
maybe it's linked to the account that
you have created with your software but
you didn't even have the software
installer yeah you didn't even have to
create like account to sign up to get
apps or anything like it's just it's all
part of it yeah it's part of like Debian
repositories and things like that but
notice though that I did have to enter
my password yes for access to install on
your class and so as Roberto had
confirmed for us we're not running as
the root user correct yeah sweet sorry
that did not work what oh hey I haven't
got internet turned on on this computer
what I did look at Netflix installed
given GIMP image editor failed manager
phone app transaction returned result
exit failed no hmm still that's smooth
to be fair now I I am looking at am I
still on line maybe my internet has gone
down because I am on Wi-Fi let's just
verify no it's up so that's cool let's
try again because I'd hate to give y'all
yeah there's something up there with my
connection to that I don't know why I
don't want to give you a bad impression
if I run into little issues here there
because I haven't write set anything up
or or done anything and I am just oh I
do have an Ethernet cable plugged in
that's good
and it's bridged yet let's try again so
the fact that I'm entering my password
means that it's doing this as a non root
user so it's becoming super user when I
run that I think my internet dropped out
there for a moment that's why it was
it's bad weather outside so and we are
just so you know if you're watching and
you're not familiar with the show we use
LTE internet so we are susceptible to
that kind of thing yep
all right so that's going away what else
do we have okay office suite
we've got Libre Office so if I bring up
writer for example version 5 nice
they've done away with version 1.1 Jeff
yes which is good so that suite looks
just like Microsoft Office that kind of
thing see and as I'm looking at this I'm
going man this would it's gonna be so
easy for people to migrate it's so fast
into a very simple Linux environment
games doesn't really come with much but
you can install those through the
software application it's pretty
standard though yeah Linux yep I like
that's got the Skype I like not only
that but that I don't see craft I don't
see a bunch of extra junk right I don't
see a bunch of like you remember on
Windows and I've had this conversation
before
on Windows when you installed stuff you
get a bunch of like uninstall is just
full of junk and Windows 10 is just
rancid as far as the menus go you have
to know the name of things and kiss a
software updater software updater hey
source I hear let's try if we don't know
where it was I can type in there you go
yes software and updates software
updater yeah so software is that just a
like would that be for updating the base
software on the says GIMP is installed
well let's take a look it's all new to
us checking for look at that I'm gonna
close out of this it says the GIMP is
installed which there's an interesting
blank button and then launch so we're
seeing a you know they're they're
probably some tweaks that they need to
do to make everything kind of perfect
Wow there's already no what does it do
alright look at that so this is telling
me that there's an update for my
computer ok that
cool so again GUI front-end we've done
away with the need for terminal although
it is still there so if you're a
terminal baby you can bring it up you
can do your stuff and it's full service
there you go
what do you think Sasha it's very nice
intuitive easy to use super fast and
it'll inspire it looks he feels very
very much like Lin spire of old but it
is xfce if you can believe it from what
I understand this is all xfce driven
really yeah so but it looks great what
do you all think I'm excited post your
comments below I think this could be
like I love I always love Lin spire oh
yeah well just the fact that it's back I
mean I've got an old laptop at home I
can't wait to put it on to see sure how
it works yeah
because it'd be great to add life to an
old laptop if you want to just jump
pardon me if you want to jump right in
just go grab free spire it's free so
give it a go on your system and you'll
be flying nice I love it and that's just
out of the box so only thing I installed
was GIMP chatroom you want to know how
does it look and run let's bring it up
tender graphics nice and easy so this is
on this particular laptop as I mentioned
this is a better laptop than what we had
ten years ago but it is it's just got
four gigs of RAM and I think I've
allocated two gigs to the to the VM so
it's not got smashing specs or anything
like that but as far as responsiveness
like when I move stuff and touch stuff
it feels very very zippy yeah it's and
and there is something to be said for
that I think yes when things just feel
zippy when I click on an application
when I move something around on the
screen I don't like there to feel like
there's latency there cool nice I'm
excited Lynne's spire linux.com is where
you're gonna find it good time check it
out cool
what are you alright
here are the stories recovering this
week in the category
TV newsroom will explain the latest
threat dubbed meltdown and Spectre
lithium-ion batteries in HP notebook
computers and mobile workstations that
are not customer replaceable are being
recalled will tell you which products
are affected so stick around
remember the VTEC worded on back in 2015
the FTC has finally reached a settlement
deal with the Toymaker and Toyota is
working with a handful of companies to
create an autonomous electric fleet of
vehicles these stories are coming right
up don't go anywhere
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category-five TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching this is the
category-five TV newsroom covering the
week's top tech stories with a slight
Linux place I'm Sasha Rickman and here
the top stories were following this week
the latest threat has been dubbed
meltdown and Spectre but what is it well
we gave it a week for the facts to start
percolating and here's the lowdown
Google's project zero revealed the
details last week of a vulnerability
impacting intel chips going all the way
back to 1995 and confirmed rumors that
involve the use of speculative execution
they also went against comments made by
AMD that said it was not affected google
said these vulnerabilities affect many
CPUs including those from AMD arm and
Intel as well as the devices and
operating systems running them the flaws
dubbed meltdown and Spectre allow an
attacker to read memory that should not
be accessible this allows a virtual
machine to read the memory of the host
machine thereby having access to other
memory to a memory of other VMs hosted
on that machine modern CPUs use
speculative execution to increase
performance the concern therefore is
that by patching against the exploit her
Foreman swill also suffer
greatly while their response to melt
down inspector hasn't been as smooth as
originally hoped vendors appear to have
done a thorough job meltdown though
easier to exploit is also easier to
protect against operating systems
updates should appear successful should
appear appear successful and should do a
solid job for Intel Apple and future ARM
chips that are susceptible to the attack
Spectre on the other hand is going to be
tricky it doesn't have any clean simple
fix unlike the other attacks there
doesn't appear to be any way of
implementing an operating system-level
fix appropriate application level fixes
is in all likelihood going to require
lots of manual effort by developers
longer-term it seems likely that
meltdown will recede into the distance
an annoyance perhaps but fully patched
and protected against while the rather
more subtle specter is going to be with
us for some time the best thing we can
do for now is update our systems to get
the latest OS patches and watch it as
the story continues to unfold Wow well
this is an interesting one yeah it
absolutely is now I wonder why meltdown
inspector like well how did they come up
with these sorts of strange because it
wouldn't be as fun to call them banana
and chocolate right it's the chocolate I
don't know meltdown seems ominous
Spectre doesn't seem that bad to me wait
till you encounter it yeah that's sure
no what I find so interesting is that
there's there doesn't appear to be a way
to fix so it was a Spectre that the can
fix without doing just software fixes
there's no way to get into the basics it
makes me wonder if this is going to open
the door to some sort of a lawsuit that
they've permanently made some computers
and networks vulnerable and as such
they're on the hook for the hardware to
fit like mmm you know it opens the door
to that kind of where we did end though
this is the beginning of that story and
no doubt there will be updates Ambala
oh yeah
yeah this is not yeah we'll see what
kind of firmware patches come out how
right now it's still very speculative
how much performance is going to be
impacted by by the fixes yeah though I
guess we'll just have to stand by and
see now lithium-ion batteries in HP
replaceable are being recalled the
recall involves certain lithium-ion
batteries compatible with HP notebook
computers and mobile workstations the
affected batteries were sold with the
workstations and were also sold
separately as replacement batteries
approximately 2,600 affected batteries
were sold in Canada 50,000 in the United
States and 1,900 in Mexico the recalled
batteries were sold over a two-year
period from December 2015 to December
2017 at various retail locations and
online the problem is that the battery
can overheat posing a potential burn and
fire hazard the company has not received
any reports of incidents or injuries in
Canada in the United States the
companies received eight reports of
overheating batteries and one report of
injury and in Mexico the company has
received one report of battery
overheating and no reports of injury
this recall affects several models of HP
and v pavilion Zed book x360 pro book
and more so make sure you review the HP
battery recall website to see if you're
affected the product name can be found
by utilizing the keyboard shortcut
function and escape or on the barcode
label on the bottom of the notebook PC
Wow
so now what a an overheating battery
melt the computer potentially sure a
plastic computer why not so good setting
and the battery chassis is usually
plastic right yeah that's true
and it would set it on fire could be
we've encountered that with Samsung's
phones yeah kerfuffle so there hasn't
been a lot of injury there's been a
couple like I mean I'm not saying
that the person injured is well usually
if your laptop is on fire you wouldn't
lay down on top of it right I wonder if
it ever caught fire I'm thinking injury
maybe it was overheating on somebody's
lap and they just didn't right that's
what I'm thinking then they're going wow
this is really hot now I have had my
laptop on my lap before now I'm not
saying much for a laptop yes I topped my
lap and it has gotten warm so my battery
is probably not a problem right but are
there ways because obviously you don't
want things to overheat it doesn't help
performance is are there ways to
circumvent that so that you wouldn't
have an overheating can you do well in
this case it's a defect right so but
generally speaking your laptop and if
you look at your laptop lift it up look
at look underneath you'll see vents like
vent holes and that's where it draws air
in from or blows air out of usually
comes in from the bottom and then out
the side of the chassis
so if if you're sitting on like a
blanket and you've got it on the bed or
something like that and it's unable to
draw air in it can actually overheat so
that can cause damage to the internal
you get little stands for underneath
your laptop bamboo stand yeah so I mean
there's ways around it just to allow
some airflow put it on a book like a
hardcover book while you're well I would
think like instead of on the bed or the
blanket or whatever something that's
gonna obstruct the airflow if you had it
on something hard like a book or
something then that would that would
help
oh that's the poor man's the US Federal
Trade Commission has agreed to a
settlement deal with a children's
electronic toy maker that it accused of
collecting kids personal information and
failing to properly secure that data the
government watchdogs said that VTech
will pay six hundred and fifty thousand
dollars and agree to a set of privacy
and security requirements in order to
settle charges that it violated both the
Children's Online Privacy Protection Act
and the FTC Act
the settlement deal puts to bed
allegations by the FTC that VTech broke
the law with its operation of the
following learning lodge kid connect
planet VTech games and educational
websites for kids and specifically the
allegation that the company did not
properly secure the information on
millions of children and parents prior
to the 2015 hack of its services and
theft of customer data the breached
learning lodge and kid connect services
were said to have hosted around 2.25
million accounts that contains
information on roughly 3 million kids
the accounts had things like the child's
name date of birth and the gender as
well as the parents name physical
address email address and security
question answers the toy maker will be
required to cut the FTC a six hundred
and fifty thousand dollar check about 22
cents per affected child to settle the
case VTech will also agree to a stricter
set of compliance requirements including
regular third party security audits to
check whether it is properly storing and
encrypting its collected information and
to make sure it is getting express
consent from parents before it collects
any personal information
speaking about data theft oh yeah I
don't know if that's harsh enough a
punishment 22 cents per affected child
who gets the money to write like the
occasional audit how about you're done
because you didn't do it right and kids
are now affected for the rest of their
lives
maybe but VTech is kind of like the gold
standard of in the industry for these
kind of products for kids my toys and
yeah I mean I can't think of anybody
else who does it more broadly than they
were well yeah but it's funny that this
has happened I didn't know about the
data breach in 2015 but we had for our
kids leapfrogs right they were from
VTech and I remember you know you get
the games and then but then I asked you
for these online accounts and you can
access all the games from the accounts
and I remember saying to my wife
something seems wrong about this like
it's a kid's toy why should kids have to
have a
with all this information on it and I
called VTech and I asked him about I'm
like why yeah and I said oh let's you
know so that you as a parent can know
what's going on their accounts blah blah
blah and I'm like why would you even add
that kind of information oh it's you
know it's just the way the system set up
and I had issues with us so we never
signed up we ended up stopped using the
devices because there was something
about it I just had this inky feeling
you were right there we go I'm
vindicated there you go of course if
they are going to figure out a way of
protecting future children that's great
but what about the past children like it
bothers me that now they have the name
gender birthday physical address yeah I
just worry about these children really
these children now are growing up with
one mark against them in the online
world already right and how I know okay
I'm not saying data breaches and all
this kind of stuff are okay but the
amount of information that parents put
online about their kids already through
Facebook
I can guarantee you your kid's life is
categorized by Facebook yeah they know
their names they know the toys that they
play with like the fact that Facebook is
fifty two thousand categories of your
information like it's not like your kids
are not already tagged because both of
you are so what as parents do you do to
protect your kids against situation I
have a cabin in the woods yes Bubble Boy
[Laughter]
I'm thinking about go back to the
picture point how many of us still use a
point-and-shoot or DSL camera we all use
our phones to take pictures of the kids
at the park and stuff yes convenient our
phones have geolocation tracking and the
EXIF data of the photos actually contain
longitude and latitude for where that
photo was taken
yes so then I upload that to social
media before I stripped all the EXIF
data mm-hmm guess what Facebook now
knows exactly where I was sitting
longitude and latitude when I took that
picture yep so like all this data is
there and here you know
singing from VTech now Facebook and
everything else but when data theft
occurs who gets that data how do they
aggregate it what do they use it for and
these are children we need to protect
the children and so what do you do to a
certain degree when it comes to the
online culture and the Internet of
Things you can only go so far when you
have to trust that there's another
company who's doing what's right yeah a
lot of it is trust yeah a lot of it's
trust huh so but just it's being smart
don't don't get careless with that
information yeah get to that point where
you're like Jeff and say something's a
little fishy about it was not in Russia
today children your name is Jeff right
now because we're in real life but
online your name is something else
Samantha do you have more for us yeah
Toyota has partnered with a company a
number of companies to form the e pallet
Alliance which is a group intended to
help guide its transformation as a
mobility services company and to
determine how it will make use of its
new a pallet vehicle platform a pallet
is a modular driverless vehicle intended
to suit a number purposes all at once
the initial group of companies includes
uber DD Mazda Amazon and Pizza Hut they
will be working together to help guide
the direction of Toyotas concept vehicle
the e palette and how it develops and
supports the mobility services it offers
to companies as a result Toyota disgusts
this as a way to help build a common
platform that all businesses and
companies can use as a plug-and-play
open platform for building out their own
mobility services which they can then
offer consumers for example Amazon could
use the vehicles for personal deliveries
and Pizza Hut could use them for pizza
deliveries the vision from Toyota is a
vast one that would ultimately see its
vehicles deployed as a fleet of flexible
service vehicles that can switch from
logistics to delivery to passenger
Travel as part of a large autonomous
electric network Toyota plans to launch
the e pallet and the early results of
its partnership with the Alliance at the
Tokyo Olympics in 2021 hmm so here's the
thing
with these vehicles deliveries will have
to change their definition because
obviously a car cannot bring a pizza to
your door why not
and Amazon cannot put bring me a pizza
car to the step from the car so now it's
going to be in part I think part of the
person like the dull
well the recipients of the delivery is
going to now have to take a more active
sure hearts in the situation like maybe
meet the car at the road or maybe it'll
be like the pizza had ice cream truck
that drives down the road and then
people just flag it to stop when you
want a pepperoni pizza I don't know like
it's gonna have to be well absolutely
yeah and I think the technology is gonna
we're gonna see it evolve overnight and
we and we've seen this in through the
stories in San Francisco about the you
know the small robots and things yeah
there's no need for a driver so you
don't need to build it like the based on
the the old car model right so if you
could really do away with the driver's
seat then why not why not have it
something that shows up and uses NFC to
detect when you approach it to take the
pizza and then it charges your card and
done and done seems all right to me so
the I don't know maybe I'm just thinking
about the people factor this is gonna
wipe out an entire industry of jobs hmm
but somebody has to be in the car no
they don't not necessarily conveyors yes
robots like who needs to even make the
pizza anymore
cold shoes everywhere are not gonna have
school money anymore like how many
college students do deliveries for pizza
and stuff just to make a couple extra
bucks they need to learn how to fix
autonomous cars that's going we're doing
a full circle now it's all trades yeah
but yeah I mean there's gonna be a lot I
mean
I love the advance we make in technology
but there's also the people factor of it
and the other thing I can't help but
wonder is what happens when something
goes wrong you order pizza but instead
nope you just got that $10,000 fossil
watch that somebody else ordered because
the Machine screwed up where's the
liability on that I don't know there's
not people involved so I don't think
there'll be mistakes I'm not too sure
about that come on now come on now I
don't have to everybody search him for
examples I want to search for example I
just I don't think that it will be one
vehicle that does Amazon deliveries and
pizza delivery you just know changes
roles but I don't think it must have
passenger seats right it wouldn't go on
run one run and be an uber driver and a
pizza delivery place and like it's got
to be like just interchangeable today
you're the pizza car and that's more
your uber car with the pizza smell in it
and then all of a sudden those people
are gonna crave pizza see again the full
circle we'll see how come how it comes
about but it's interesting yeah it's
very cool I know and we're seeing a lot
of this stuff at CES this week and and
seeing a like all the different
manufacturers that are doing autonomous
vehicles stuff and it's really tough in
yet exciting just to sit down and I want
to do this and I can't do this on the
air but to sit down and kind of think of
predictions of how the technology could
be used and how it could work right
because really it comes down to changing
the paradigm you mentioned about jobs
and things well when the horse-drawn
carriage became a thing of the past and
the automobile took over people panicked
a lot of people lost jobs but new jobs
were created and the horse population
dropped but you know we can't predict
how the creation of the automobile is
going to change the the industry let
alone the world oh absolutely
I mean we're I mean you look at what
we've accomplished as a society in the
last 120 years and you just you kind of
go where are we going to be in 50 years
because of how quickly it's gonna
picking up and yeah you can't predict
these kind of things you can't you can
speculate all you want but you
kind of have to see it play out and you
do the best you can to hope that it
doesn't go awry you know end up with
some sort of AI that takes over the
world because we're actually screwing it
up and pretty sure that was a movie plot
it's gonna go very well
big thanks to Ray W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman nice thanks this is category 5
technology TV it's been great fun having
you here thanks again to our guests
tonight Roberto from Lynn spire
linux.com and we hope you check it out
and tell us what you think of it mm-hmm
lots of good stuff covered tonight mmm
tons of little nuggets and don't forget
next week is our viewer question
extravaganza questions get onto our
website category 5 TV click on contact
us and you'll be able to submit your
comments questions and concerns and we
will share the next week's take care
