welcome to category five technology TV
episode number 4:12 for Tuesday the 11th
of August 2015 so nice to have you here
yeah now you're back in Barry back in
Barry I can't wait to tell you all about
my time all the fun trinkets and toys
that I got to play with come on I can't
I can't wait to tell you what's coming
up in the news room ah here's what's
coming up in the category 5 TV news room
a factory which made up to 41,000 fake
Apple iPhones has been raided in China
with nine arrests personal details of up
to 2.5 million carphone warehouse
customers may have been accessed in a
cyber attack as Windows 10 upgrades
continue we're bound to see how free it
really is and one of the little added
fees some didn't expect is having to pay
extra to play DVDs a website in Russia
has been caught exploiting a serious
zero-day vulnerability in Mozilla
Firefox browser prompting the open
source developer to deliver an emergency
update that fixes the flaw and Google
has unveiled surprising restructuring
creating a new parent company called
alphabet Inc stick around the full
details are coming up later in the show
this is category 5 technology TV
starring Sasha dramatis
hilary rumble
Christo wells
Eric kid
and your host Robin Ferguson
the dreaded situation is you've created
a server you've got a Linux machine you
got your computer and you forgot your
root password what you're gonna do well
I'm sorry to interrupt your singing that
is totally something I would do I would
I would forget my password what are you
gonna do
we're gonna show you tonight how to
reset your root password also great for
pulling pranks on your friends do not do
that can I say hey too sparkly
and we got in the chat room Oh Dennis
Kelly yeah made you and Nate UK shouts
out nice GWG nice Dave maybe you already
said that as well if you have questions
you can always pay me is that a thing
ping me I don't know what you can do you
can ask me in the chatroom poke me ping
me just poker in the chat room and I'll
actually okay that's lovely
yeah and I will hopefully get to them by
the end of the one bye bye I need Robby
we'll get to them by the end of the show
it's all it's all you keep up with this
stuff here flying by on my screen so
it's it's all you buddy yeah okay well
no we are on the air we've had a crazy
beat can I just say that much um last
week okay let's start with the quick yes
okay first of all that good so much fun
last week nothing but good feedback
I know them a good feedback about
episode number 411 I had fun being able
to broadcast for you
from the cottage from the forest and
these PD drones are awesome make sure
you check them out Pat five dot TV slash
teeny drones while it was there I
checked out these free play buddy
rechargeable flashlights with the solar
panel everything right I've got one of
these to give away you've still got one
week to qualify so do you do that all
you got to do is email contest at
category five dot TV and when you do
that you've got to include your
registered user name on the category
five dot TV website is it just one email
per registered user yes okay you can
only qualify once okay okay it's good to
know I was just tapping my mic just to
make sure I'm good hello there we go
first day back in the studio studio D
having torn everything apart right and
then putting it all back together bicep
it had a kind of a crazy week you'll
notice that the Wi-Fi to which we
reviewed on the show long time ago and
has powered the internet connection here
at studio D for since we've been here
all right well yeah it died this week I
feel like we need to bury it that it
probably has mercury and cadmium lithium
well funny story about things dying is
that see this wonderful usually a
sentence that you hear the funny story
about things dying this sheet here
Robbie just brings it up oh my daughter
is here tonight okay yes Ravi's
daughter's here tonight and she looked
over and said daddy why is the printer
smoking so hot off the press this is
what we'll be talking about today very
quickly I love it as soon as all three
sheets had printed remember how we had a
our printer died and then we had
donated printer to get us through black
and white in the fuser assembly was
smoking tonight so that's not a good
situation no and but it gets it gets
even better and by better do you mean
worse yes I do the laptop here is my
family laptop because the laptop that
you see on the show and and we've it's
been Old Faithful
unfortunately we truly can't bury that
that would be wrong
yeah see if it this is sad is that yeah
there it is that's it you can't really
see the the resolution but you can see
all the lines that's so the screen has
actually died right a very painful
excruciating death the sad thing about
it is that the laptop still works fine
so fortunately at the cottage what I was
able to do was hook it up to an external
TV through HDMI right let's use it and
do the production and and broadcast the
show but she's dead
Jim these are the sort of expenses that
would be covered if this was the sort of
show that wasn't based solely on
volunteers volunteers time absolutely
and sometimes you take for granted the
fact that we are volunteers here and
that a lot of it happens because of as
far as the expenses go is because of
your contributions using our Amazon
links being a part of our patreon
profile make sure you support us through
that yeah we've had a little bit of a
lull over the past couple of weeks while
I've been away and I'd really love to
see some more contributions coming in
through that but it is it's really
making a difference it's fantastic and I
appreciate everybody that's been
supporting us that way even through
PayPal we have regular subscribers who
contribute via PayPal it's easy and the
fees are less for us that way yeah so
really helped out because what you what
you do helps I mean but it's so hard for
us because we want to grow bigger and
then at the same time we need to replace
some things you have in that and we're
paying rent now we're here in studio
Guinea and our
because we're our lease is up our lease
came up July 1st so here we are we're a
month and a half in to our new lease so
it's you know month-to-month we pay the
bills and we're doing it and I'm so
proud of what we've established what
we've created and and the the fact that
we are pulling it off but it is a big
hit when we get some technical issues so
I am very careful I might write ooh be a
good steward with the money that is
contributed to the show and and I do my
best to make wise purchasing decisions
the laptop just so you know I had priced
out a replacement screen it is the
screen thankfully it's not the video
card because that means we can repair
the laptop and put a new screen in but a
new screen for this particular model of
laptop is 260 dollars Canadian yeah and
as you know you can actually get
computers almost about that price so I
looked into it and I did find a
refurbished laptop for two hundred and
fifty four dollars mm-hmm so a few
dollars less than buying a new screen
for this one and I hate to do that
because I'm not the kind of guy that
will be waste something that works I
like to write you've seen my van it's
like it's rusting now like it you saw my
my old van like we had a catalytic
converter that was louder than and then
death but so yeah I've ordered that
laptop and should be here within the
next couple of days but for now we're
we're kind of make shifting and
last-minute thrown-together internet
because it died went back to bell our
provider and okay well what can you do
for me well we can put you on a contract
for two years and you'll have to pay
$100 to get the new model the new model
does not support external antennas oh it
is LTE so it's good and it has Ethernet
ports and everything is okay as opposed
to this is just a mobile hotspot but it
does have the USB output as a modem
which was cool that's how we were doing
it so I thought why don't we get on to
our local classifieds and I found
somebody nearby that was selling a
Netgear LTE
they call it a turbo hub and it is it's
a four port switch that gets its
internet through LTE and then shares it
out to all the computers and I was able
to get that for 35 bucks because it was
used so company had it and they went a
business and they were selling off the
old stuff and so I got that and it has
the ability for us to put external
antennas so if we ever wanted to put one
on the roof we get a better signal that
is cool it does seem to be working
pretty good tonight hopefully nobody has
any trouble we're getting about 27 mega
megabits down and about 12 up so I think
we're doing pretty good but the nice
thing about that one is it was going to
be 300 bucks for that particular device
if I didn't want to contract 35 bucks
done and done so that's what I mean by
being smart we should save all of these
pieces of old expired technology protect
the brand at the end of the year we
should do an in memorandum thing like
they do it you know at the end of the
award ceremonies for all the people who
have passed away we can just do a little
sad Sarah McLachlan song show them all
but what a mad dash right so this has
got a micro sim I had to go in I had a
friend actually go to the store because
I was at work all day picked up a micro
sim two standard sim adapter to make it
work in the new device got us up and
running like 50 minutes ago in here we
are hi welcome to the show
Adams off tonight that is that is true
Adam is gone
he's yeah he's been doing the tour of
British Columbia so that's pretty fun
still in the country but five hours away
by playing plane wow I am excited about
some of the new planes the Concorde 2.0
that's coming out that's gonna be able
to get you from one end of the world to
the other in about an hour heard about
that no we'll have to bring that up in
the newsroom segment next week maybe
oh nice now this just in we have a
postcard this is the last note of those
cards not the last of all poem coming
keep them coming keep them coming this
is the last of the postcards that we
will exchange this for that you get nice
vinyl stickers this we do shell these
you can go to shop
category five TV I'm not like a hundred
bucks really helps us out yeah a hundred
dollars for those you can give a signer
bucks for absolutely and if you do that
I will stamp the back but thank you
Sasha
can't be bothered to stamp all of them
thanks Sasha Thanks it says thank you
exclamation marks a smiley face hello
from Centennial Colorado a suburb of
Denver okay thank you for answering my
question on episode 405 I welcome
I always appreciate learning from your
shows - keep up the good work PS I'm
supporting you through patreon thank you
thank you so much I thought that they
were awesome for sending a postcard yeah
double loss you are very awesome
caps lock underscores asterisk asterisk
yes
sincerely data Mangler so very cool well
thanks for sending that in I don't see
an address there so make sure you send
us your address by email okay so I can
send this to you I don't have a return
address how close is Denver to the spill
that just happened about it's a little
northeast of of the spill I suppose
that's scary stuff and that was probably
this was probably sent to us before any
of that happened but I hope I hope
everything's okay there for you and your
family data Mangler mm-hmm that's
something else that is that's true now
thanks for sending the postcard don't
forget email me your address okay I want
to send you some stickers you know
what's cool what's up
the James donkey a lot of this thing I
tell those you know in our shop we sell
them in our shop and they're available
our cakes they're available in the US
twice already and they've only been out
for a month I want one so bad yeah I
have no real reason at all to have one
because it's awesome I just you know
what I'm going to buy one when they're
available in Canada I'm gonna buy one
and bring it into work and just like
leave it at work in the work office so
that everybody can love it as much as I
do but I don't need a mouse because I
have a laptop
oh you're on a laptop right now with a
mouse when the James donkey
double-oh-seven works great I had love
mm-hmm anyway I can't use a newsroom
because it's green if you mentioned the
website the people can check that out if
they're wondering what what is she
talking about
James donkey what the actual James
donkey website or our website where you
can buy one
oh yeah no of course hours where you can
buy one five TV / double-oh-seven
zero zero seven zero zero seven so super
easy easy peasy or what we mean by that
is when you go through our links they
keep track of where the sales come from
and it does go to support the show and
we received another check from Amazon
this week and it really makes a huge
difference
mm-hmm and people purchasing things like
the James donkey double-oh-seven
we're hoping to get these teeny drones
on there as well for now you can go
through cat 5 TV slash teeny drones and
buy them direct from Quebec but you know
what is really helpful I realize when
people start talking about buying stuff
from Amazon I've started saying you know
what like even if they don't really
watch the show it doesn't hurt at all to
mention you you're gonna shop on Amazon
anyway I just do it this way go to all
the public library computers and through
the DNS record to go through our link I
love it
blip TV they're dead they're dead
officially officially dead on August
20th it's like nine days away they're
shutting down goodbye goodbye blip and
speaking of you know our little funeral
services for devices and services blip
you know even though they really didn't
ever make a big name for themselves
mm-hmm comparatively I mean I'm
comparing to something like YouTube so
blip it's still gonna be missed and I
you know we made the switch to to Vimeo
after blip first announced that they
were acquired by this Disney Company so
so maker studio yeah they're a company
that is that's owned by Disney
and is trying to restructure build this
new service maker studio and and try to
create something new and fresh and
brought it's not the same thing blip was
always I mean you look at Vimeo now and
and what blip tried to become is a
distribution platform for content
creators and not just the average
youtuber that creates little five-minute
videos that they created on a their cell
phone like we're talking as professional
as can possibly be right right film
makers and stuff like that so
so with blip closing down that meant we
transitioned our RSS feeds and the
content for all you know where you
download your your files from and
everything has been transitioned over to
Vimeo
but it's still sad to see them go yeah
especially when it's such a good it was
a good company like good functioning
yeah they had a pretty interesting
monetization platform a little different
than say YouTube but it and it seemed to
work for us for a while blip TV but
that's it they've been bought it and
shut down now this is interesting and I
just just noticed it here on this it
says the International Federation of
robotics released a study recently which
highlights concerns about surgery robots
here's the deal I feel like this should
be on the news this will check a news
story this does but it's too short to be
a news story okay let me just read this
you've heard about these do-it-yourself
whole surgical kits though where they're
created people are able to buy kits
online and they might be powered by an
Arduino or Raspberry Pi computer and you
can build a robot to do your surgery no
I have not heard of this in the States
or some somewhere like that where you
don't have free health care I would
think that would be kind of tempting in
some cases if you didn't mind taking the
risk but what's happened holy moly okay
and forward so do-it-yourself robotic
surgery kits are being experimented with
but even the met
Cole ones are not doing so well over 140
deaths have come as a direct result of
robotic surgeries a direct result over
1,000 injuries the study says broken and
burnt-out parts falling into the
patients bodies resulted in over 1,000
injuries and one death electrical sparks
caused almost 200 injuries
reports say the surgical teams need
better troubleshooting training okay so
these are trouble okay this is not even
do it yourself okay
these are real legit Hospital surgeries
using robotics so first I was thinking
like what happens you set this up with a
program and you lay yourself under me
there you go
don't trust the robots to do your
surgery you worry about it though on the
others a lot of stuff is going robotic
and and what happens when these machines
break down because but I guess even like
what do they call it when the surgery is
really tiny
what is it micro camera bro yeah it's
macro surgeon
no my microscopic micros big you use
some amount of Robotics right because
they're using big hand motion well now
they can do surgeries with like a little
pinprick hole and the robot part goes in
and does the sparks up and if it's
damaged the surgeon doesn't know how to
necessarily fix those things they're not
an engineer all of a sudden you're like
the guy in operation laying on the table
anyway that's crazy news thanks for that
do you want to talk about the main part
of the show no sure oh yeah we're half
way all right why don't we hit it up
with a viewer question or two to take us
to the news and then we'll and then
we'll be okay and then we'll do it from
there yeah all right you'll just do that
okay these things are addictive folks
that is so super neat
very question sir whoa well no okay it's
too distracting here is a question from
Andy Cooper I'm like Eric kid all of a
sudden Andy hi guys I was just wondering
if it's possible for me to embed the
livestream of your show into my own web
page I don't have Roku and don't
particularly want one hey now we have
enough TV platforms here in the UK
without yet another box to sit on top of
the TV you can hide it behind the TV
however what I do have is a
top-of-the-range Samsung Smart TV with
internet capability the only way I found
of watching your live stream on the TV
is to open a web browser log in to the
web site watch through the site and then
click on the full screen the problem is
that every few minutes very intrusive
and a very intrusive n loud sound
interrupts your broadcast no this sound
is coming from one of the head no on
your watch live pay no I have I have to
refresh the page in my browser to make
it go away which is not easy on a TV I
know because I think I have the same TV
as you so I thought if I could build
your feed into a page of my own I could
get rid of the ad okay first of all
people in the chat room are you getting
do you get that you get a an audible ad
of course that should not happen so if
that is happening then that's something
that maybe our programmer needs to take
a look at that shouldn't be happening
and everyone in the chatroom is saying
no that should never happen our ads are
static the advertisements are there you
can see if I look at this everybody in
the chatroom is saying there's no that
doesn't happen
I don't know if I can get no I don't
have a screen right now that maybe oh
you know what because our new internet
we're on a different IP block hmm can I
take the time to change that I'm looking
at the live view here though and it's
right now it's the logo Co banner 4k v
dot TV slash logo for example there
should never be any audio if you have
audio you probably
have malware oh there you go yeah just
diagnosed it this is the problem you've
got some malware in your browser that is
detecting where the banners are some
malware on the actual TV so is that what
it is
yeah I guess I think it's a TV yeah
that's weird well cuz then the second
part of his question he says could you
livestream over YouTube I know you guys
like Roku but more people have access to
YouTube so if it has to be Lou do the
other and II suggested YouTube okay so
why we know I just got to change the IP
address of that system here he can watch
pre-recorded or post I guess recorded on
YouTube but it takes away the
interactive element of the show which
makes sense we want you to be
interactive Andy so let's see if you
know how our new internet connection
goes for the for the first little while
mm-hmm and that will give us the
impression of whether or not we've got
enough power now up until now we've been
again operating with this and we've had
limited amounts of power and it also is
pretty costly and when you get when you
get running on something like this it
can cost some money so I don't know if I
can get access to my computer here
that's a shame so so when it comes to
streaming sorry yeah 10 things at once
when it comes to streaming on YouTube
it's another feed to do so it's a
megabit up and we only have say 4
megabits to work with we've got to
really budget that bandwidth not only
cost wise but also to make sure that we
don't start buffering on your player
right that makes sense so because your
TV is apparently capable of playing our
feed but you're getting these
advertisements I'd be looking at why are
you getting those advertisements that's
not from us yeah the ads that we have
are static on that page right that said
boy oh boy I wish I could get the
computer screen up here
I'm still
we still just have a dead screen there
because of the IP I do need to figure
that out before before we jump over for
everything else oh okay well if you want
I can just read another question I
wanted to show you though if you go to
live dot cat5 dot TV during a live show
and view the source I'll do okay you'll
see the the embed code and and I don't
encourage you to do that in that there
are ads on our player and those ads help
to pay for the show and it makes a huge
difference it's really important yeah I
don't want to pretend that those ads
don't make a difference because they do
pay us we do get paychecks every single
month because of those and it's paying a
rather substantial portion of our rent
right it's because of them that we are
here so if you have any need please
click the ads yeah so I don't I don't
encourage you to bypass those
advertisements but if your TV is giving
you trouble then technically I won't
give you permission but I'll say you can
view the source you can remove those ads
from the source save it as your own
local file and run it that way it just
would that would hurt our bottom line
basically that's all maybe if you do
choose to do something like that maybe
you know maybe do a patreon thing
instead yeah I think that's fair enough
if you're gonna remove the ads if you're
gonna use things like ad blockers why
not
kindly decide to support us through
patreon or through a monthly
contribution or something like make up
for the losses where do all your
Christmas shopping on Amazon that to
your screaming deals there
I am almost to the point where I've got
a desktop here so you almost have it
almost have it there dude what can I do
I wish I'd saved the International
Federation of robotics
study until this point yes when we
realize okay I've got it one now there
you go
so I'm um I'm almost there folks sparkly
has been working on getting my test
server running yeah Andre docker that's
really cool tally what do you think of
that how he loves it mine test is a free
alternative to minecraft right neither
of which I have any knowledge of except
that I see a whole bunch of kids all the
time yes just just in love and you know
what it is kind of like the current you
know the modern Lego it's a digital
version of being able to build stuff and
when we were growing up it was it was
little blocks and it still is but
they're expensive as a dad I know it can
be really really pricey when the kids
start building their Lego collection
right and all it does is it causes
heartbreak because you know when they're
16 years old they're gonna fight over
who owns the Lego yeah that's him Callie
Dennis Kelly says hi and she's in the
chat room as well okay so I believe I've
got all of our shots here I apologize
for that folks Terry gasps gonna happen
what I was saying is hit control U on
your keyboard and you'll see how all
this works but basically you'd want to
grab our there's flow player and there's
the the player itself and so on
so you can it with a little bit of
scripting knowledge you can you can do
that or you could just save that to your
desktop and remove the add code and
you'd be you accomplish the same thing
but I'd be getting to the bottom of why
it's causing audio yeah it's weird very
weird okay let's do one more question
before I do the news just in case we
don't get back to more questions that
would be I wouldn't get in tragedy yeah
especially because I like them okay so
this is from whisky zero
hey whisky zero would you please check
the contest entries to see if my entry
message arrived the email client shows
undisclosed recipients so this guy for
this guy in the sent message header
can't confirm that I went to the right
address or not
no auto-reply came back so if anybody
else is having that problem this is why
it's important okay so anybody else has
that
yes that's now whiskey zero I would say
without even checking that you have not
sent in a ballot if that's the case
reason is is you will receive an auto
reply so if you've checked your spam
filters and it's not gonna hurt you to
send it in again so try again contest at
category five dot TV check out the okay
I'll throw I don't have it on there
that's bald nerd you can do it while I'm
in the news we can talk about it again
oh yeah well here I'll give it to you
there you go category five dot TV so
contest at that address category five
dot TV okay and make sure that you do
get the autoresponder if you don't then
we haven't received your value can mosey
on over here your said if you like non
over this is category five technology TV
episode number four twelve for Tuesday
the 11th of August 2015
just a thought - we've been sending out
these category five technology TV vinyl
stickers these are our premium - up
vinyl stickers one is for a darker
laptop or whatever you want to stick it
to and one is for if you've got a silver
something that you want to stick it to
it's kind of great so two different
contrasts a couple of them did come back
in the mail so I'm working on resetting
a couple so if you didn't get yours let
me know and and I'll send them out and
of course I got that when I got back
from vacation so I have not addressed
resending them just yet but they will be
going out this week so thanks for your
patience okay
over - and Sasha in the newsroom it's
Tuesday August 11th 2015 and here are
the stories were covering this week fake
iPhones coming out of China have led to
a factory being raided by authorities
Carphone Warehouse is the latest
retailer to be compromised in a cyber
attack with personal details of around
two and a half million customers being
stolen Microsoft wants you to pay to
play DVDs on Windows 10 a serious
vulnerability in Firefox
allowed the exploitation of private data
on a user's computer both Linux
and windows are affected and an
emergency patch has been released we'll
tell you what you need to know and
Google has announced a surprise
restructuring of their company letting
Google be a search engine again while
some of the unrelated acquisitions and
creations have become part of a new
parent company these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere
you've got mad skills now
hone them learn new skills or improve
your existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from lynda.com
through our special link at cat5 dot TV
slash lynda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning we'll give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat5 dot TV slash Lynda I'm
Sasha dramatis and here are the top
stories from the category-five TV
newsroom a factory which made up to
41,000 fake Apple iPhones has been rated
in China leading to nine arrests the
operation involved hundreds of workers
repackaging secondhand smartphone parts
as new parts for iPhones for export as
new iPhones for export the
counterfeiting operation is said to have
produced about 19 million dollars in
fake iPhones the factory was discovered
on the 14th of May but was revealed on
social media by Beijing's Public
Security Bureau this past Sunday
according to reports the operation was
set up in January and was led by a
husband-and-wife team on the northern
outskirts of the Chinese capital
according to Beijing authorities they
said that they had been alerted to the
factory by US authorities which had
seized some of the fake phones the fake
iPhones were so convincing that many of
the factories staffed were themselves
convinced that they were employed by
Apple the reports come amid an official
Chinese crackdown Chinese crackdown on
counterfeit goods with authorities
pushing firms to trademark their goods
now I have watched a documentary on on
counterfeited
products and I know that there is a huge
problem in China with Korea there's a
huge counterfeit culture and the thing
is many of the products are really
convincing but there isn't any testing
there isn't any environmental there
isn't a lot of human rights that are so
the thing is if you're buying something
and it seems too good to be true as far
as prices go Robbie like oh thank for
example if you if you bought a
counterfeit laptop yeah right then
something could happen to it
you know what I think is a good example
we looked at the sjcam sj4000 last week
on the show and as I mentioned on that
show when they first brought them out
they didn't brand it as sjcam so a lot
of counterfeit versions came out that
say sj4000 on them they look identical
they they look that's really really
convincing but again somebody got a hold
of the blueprints in China and they
manufactured a whole bunch of knockoffs
and and they're selling them as that
product so it's really important that we
are careful about what what versions we
buy we're buying it from if you if you
are buying a knockoff or a counterfeit
and you don't know that's one thing but
if you are buying it and you do know
then there are victims in that in that
that is actually you think about slave
trade slave labor and the treatment of
workers as you say but also it's a save
ten bucks or whatever it may be for one
like thinking of the knockoff cams
they're not as good of quality so you're
automatically just why save $10 on it
and then think about the the people that
you that you're supporting as well
mm-hmm
personal details of up to 2.4 million
carphone warehouse customers may have
been accessed in a cyberattack with up
to ninety thousand customers encrypted
credit card details accessed oh yeah the
breach concerns some of the companies
separately managed divisions such as
one-stop phone shop comm e to save comm
and the Mobile's dot co uk websites it
also provides services to ID mobile
talked
mobiletalk mobile and some carphone
warehouse customers the retailers owner
Dixon's Carphone said it was very sorry
for the attack will be informing all
customers who may have been affected by
the breach just another example like it
every single week we seem to have like
have like in the news there I have five
news stories at least one of them is
always that there's a company that has
accidentally leaked or allowed in some
you know some intrusion and encrypted
credit card numbers and you might even
get tired of hearing about it but yet
many of our viewers may deal with these
companies and it's important for you to
be aware that these things have been
leaked because you need to change your
passwords you need to call your bank and
make sure that your credit card hasn't
been compromised and that your your
credit score hasn't been compromised or
even your identity stolen right so it's
scary that it's still happening but
we'll just keep telling you about it
when it does happen and hopefully one
day it will not be in the news hopefully
one day everything will be secure in a
world where we're all in straightjackets
yeah the only way as Windows 10 upgrade
to continue we're bound to see how free
it really is and one of the added little
extra to play DVDs if you partake in
Microsoft's free upgrade offer from
Windows 7 or 8 to Windows 10 Windows
Media Center will be removed without
warning in its place a new app called
Windows DVD player has been added to the
Windows Store which you will have to
purchase and it costs around fifteen
dollars most versions of Windows 7 or
Windows 8 or 8.1 include media center
and the good news is if your computer
had media center before the upgrade
you'll be credited with a free copy of
the Windows DVD player in practice this
means that most people upgrading from
windows 7 will have access to the
windows DVD player app for free however
most of the windows 8 upgraders won't
also if you buy a full Windows 10 home
or pro license or a new Windows 10
computer
you won't be eligible to download the
DVD player app for free which blows my
mind why not just include it and put an
extra $10 on the price tag but well how
do you do that if you're saying that
it's free right oh yeah here's our free
OS well it's crazy you know a better
option is to install VLC or another free
open source media player yeah good point
so but my goodness here's free and then
if you want to play a DVD although I
mean there are patents surrounding DVD
architecture though MPEG for example and
so I guess it's inevitable if you're
gonna give away the OS for free you've
got to have those patents paid for I
guess the licensing yeah I don't know I
mean I had it's been so long since I
tried to play a DVD on a computer right
yeah but still I I just blows my mind
that you would say free and then say oh
no by three I mean $15 right and and my
my case is that I would rather rip that
DVD to my hard drive put it on the
server and then we watch it through Plex
but now if you live in the UK that's
illegal that's right that is delete our
own stuff as you said a couple was the
last week or the week two weeks ago yeah
crazy a website in Russia has been
caught exploiting a serious zero day
vulnerability and Mozilla Firefox
browser prompting the open source
developer to deliver an emergency update
that fixes the flaw the bug in a
built-in PDF reader allowed attackers to
steal sensitive files stored on the hard
drives of computers that use the
vulnerable Firefox version the attack
was used against both Windows and Linux
users Mozilla researcher Daniel veditz
wrote in a blog post published on
Thursday the exploit code targeting
Linux users uploaded cryptographically
protected system passwords bash command
histories secure shell which is SSH
configurations and keys the attacker
downloaded several other files included
his including histories for my SQL and
reconfiguration and
figurations for Romania FileZilla and
PSI plus text files that contain the
strings pass and access in the names any
shell scripts were also grabbed the
attack targeting Windows users appeared
to go after files of interests to
software developers the targeted data
included subversion s3 browser and
FileZilla configuration files dot purple
and psi plus account information and
site configuration files from 8
different popular FTP clients crazy
Firefox users running Apple's OS 10
weren't targeted the exploit was served
in an advertisement on an undisclosed
Russian news site but that it said that
he couldn't rule out the possibility
that other sites also hosted the attack
some of those may have targeted Macs in
addition to Windows and Linux veditz
wrote the exploit leaves no trace that
it had been run on the local machine if
you use Firefox on Windows or Linux it
would be prudent to change any passwords
and keys found in the above-mentioned
files if you use the Associated programs
Mozilla has issued an emergency update
patching the vulnerability users should
check their version of Firefox to make
sure that they're running versions 39
point 0.3 the fix has also been shipped
in Firefox ESR 38 point one point one
Wow
so that is significant
we are not are we we don't use Firefox
do we Robby I do actually use Firefox in
a lot of cases I tend to leave more tour
chrome these days or chromium but yeah I
guess I do use Firefox for some things
does this affect you then do you do you
have any absolutely the updates that
were released this morning important
that you make sure you get those in
there doesn't necessarily affect me in
that mmm I I hope I haven't been
exploited right cuz that's freaky
licious yeah mm-hmm so you know it
doesn't leave a trace how would you even
know you wouldn't know if you were
exploited so if you have any doubts
change your passwords and your username
can you do that change well it boils
down to for example if you use filezilla
which we all do right FileZilla client
you use that for your FTP and SFTP
connections you've got your site manager
set up with all your favorite SFTP
connections and it can be accessed
through this exploit in Firefox that is
not a good situation and you would never
have any idea that someone did it crazy
so change your passwords is the only way
to know for sure that you're safe but a
good and easy way to change your
password is to use password box true
just an all-right Google has unveiled
surprising restructuring creating a new
parent company called alphabet Inc under
the rebranding Google will retain its
best known businesses such as search
apps YouTube and Android some of the
newer entities such as the investment of
research divisions the smart home unit
nest and the drone arm will be run under
alphabet Google founder Larry Page said
it would create a simpler structure for
what had become a diverse group of
businesses mr. Page said in a blog post
our company is operating well today but
we think we can make it cleaner and more
accountable the whole point is that
alphabet companies should have
independence and develop their own
brands mr. page will become chief
executive of alphabet with senior vice
president sundar Pichai becoming CEO of
Google mr. pages fellow Google
co-founder Sergey Brin will become
president of alphabet and Eric Schmidt
the current Google chairman will become
the executive chairman of the holding
company so lots of changes there and I
love the new name I love alphabet Inc I
will tell you I wish that I had a
company named alphabet and that I was
the president of alphabet big thanks
this week - Roy W Nash and our community
of viewers for submitting stories to us
if you have found a new story you'd like
to send email to newsroom at category 5
TV for all your tech news with a slight
linux' bias to visit the category 5 TV
news
room at newsroom category five TV for
the category five dot TV newsroom I'm
Sasha dramatis thanks Sasha this is
category five technology TV and I'm your
host Robbie Ferguson alright so if I
lose my password in and I need to find
my is it root password if I need to find
my root pass I know what would you do
what I do what would you do lost it
root passwords in Linux are really where
it's at because that's what you need in
order to do any kind of change or unni's
to the file system or install updates
and things like that so worst case
scenario like if I did lose my password
I could do nothing so what would happen
of consequence you can still use the
computer in its current state but as
soon as your computer says oh there's a
new version of Firefox you need to
install this because there's a massive
exploit you wouldn't be able to because
you don't have your root password this
that's the desktop example a good
example that I've encountered before is
that in the business we tend to deploy a
lot of servers and sometimes it happens
where ok I deployed a test server a
development server and whoops forget
what the password is so what do I do in
that case let's hop on over to a Debian
terminal window here and I'm just gonna
log in as my user there we go so I'm
logged into two Debian and as my user
there's not a whole lot I can do like if
I go
okay so I need to change my network for
example make a change to my network card
whatever I do here no matter what I do I
try to write it and it's gonna say error
writing I can't change my network
interface because permission is denied
so anything at all that I want to do
that has to do with the system I can't
do so I need to use well in some cases
sudo but on Debian I'm gonna type su and
then I got a no okay well what's my root
password and I try the one that I
thought it was oh great authentication
failure I can't do anything
I'm absolutely stuck on this system
maybe you've been there before if you
haven't been there before it may happen
some day to you and so we want to show
you how you can get around this today in
a safe way so I'm gonna simply reboot
that system I don't even I can't even
reboot
I can't even type reboot because I don't
have super user access so I'm actually
gonna have to physically reset the
computer that's the only way and when
it's booting I'm gonna get my grub
screen here this is the bootloader and
it's the first thing that you see and by
default it's gonna boot into Debian or
whatever Linux distro you're using but
what we're gonna do is we're gonna hit e
on our keyboard and magically it's
switched over to a text mode because we
are now editing our grub bootloader only
in a temporary way so when we reboot
anything that we've changed here is
going to be undone so you don't have to
worry yeah you're not gonna break
anything at this point anyways you're
not gonna break grub scroll down until
you see a line that says Linux see that
and that line is telling it where the
kernel is and how to boot so once you've
got there hit end and that puts me see
where my cursor ended up at the end of
quiet there so this line is actually one
line but it has wrapped and what we want
to do is add a space and we want to
actually tell it that we're gonna
instead of booting into our normal
kernel and the traditional environment
we're gonna instead in it equals slash
bin slash - and what that tells it is
that we're going to now boot into our
bash terminal prompt okay so you'll
notice that in order to do this I have
to have physical access to the box
because I have to be able to reboot and
I have to be able to edit the grub
bootloader before I load the computer so
you don't have to worry about somebody
doing the particular thing to you from a
remote connection or anything like that
they have to have physical access to the
computer but cuz you've got a reboot
first you got to get into you got a hit
e at the grub bootloader and then you've
got to make this change and boot up so
no concerns there we've got to have
physical access as soon as I've added in
it equals slash bin slash bash I hit
ctrl X to boot using my changed
environment and you'll see what's gonna
happen here instead of getting to the
login prompt I am now route haha but
there's nothing really to do there are
there's one thing that I have to do
first and foremost if I type mount I'm
gonna see my slash dev slash sta-1
on /r Oh what does that mean
take a guess the one above it I'll give
you a hint is RW but see that line dev
slash SDA one is mounted on slash ext4
rro in this instance means read-only so
it's a read-only file system I can't
make any changes to that file system so
how can I change my password you change
that you change that yeah all right dad
I change that you change that flip our
oh yeah change it to the RW RW all right
how do we do that well okay let's let's
do it mount - OH remount okay mmhmm
comma rewrite slash so we're saying okay
we're gonna remount slash write as read
write enter now if I type mount will see
that device dev slash SDA one is RW REE
nice okay now we're going to be able to
make changes to our file system on this
computer really really simple right so
now what do I do
pas s WD root enter so UNIX password
cool enter my new password retype it
notice that I didn't have to enter the
exist
password okay right unlike if I had a
booted and logged in this Robbie and
typed password password yeah then I
would have had to know the existing root
password in order to do this and the
point is you don't know it it is further
I don't know it so I'm stuck right so
now I have successfully updated it now
if you boot in and you do that and you
try this type password PA sswd root and
it tells you after entering it that it's
not authenticated and all that probably
means that you're still running and
read-only mode so make sure you double
check that you set it to read/write
because if you don't have access to make
changes to the password file it won't be
able to make the changes and it will
fail right so now I because I'm booted
into this bin bash thing I don't have
any like shutdown commands I can't type
reboot or anything and it doesn't work
instead what I do is I type exit wait
don't type exit no because you might be
on an SSD you might have a solid state
hard drive right before you type exit
let's sink our hard drive just type sink
enter done that's it what a sink huh
force changed blocks to disk update the
super doc block so what happens is
sometimes if you're on certain types of
devices you may be making changes in
memory that haven't been written to disk
yet so then if I reboot I'm gonna lose
those changes right make sure you think
first just as a as a safety precaution
to make sure that you don't reboot and
say hey I thought I changed that and it
didn't work
now type exit and you'll see that the
kernel is just panicked and it's dead so
now I can reboot the computer and again
because I didn't actually make changes
to the grub bootloader all I did was
make temporary changes you'll see now if
I hit enter it's going to boot up
normally and not into this strange mode
that I had created with the init
environment variable there we go
it's gonna boot up and now I should be
able to ask you as my user using the
password that I just created so I'm
gonna first log in as me now su and and
my password I'm done I now have the root
password so cool there you have it folks
this is category five technology TV
thanks for tuning in tonight I think
we've still got some time yeah like
turtles we have we've got another two
hours to go right I'm gonna read another
question thanks Ashley
this is from Dave made you hiya Dave hi
Robby
Hey as you know I'm sight-impaired and
have been using Linux since early 2009
as my sole operating system which is
awesome anyway I have been approached by
a few members of the BCA B which is the
British Computer Association for the
blind about how to set up better quality
voices other than the robotic voice on
the Orca screenreader
I have read somewhere that you can use
festival in conjunction with Orca to
provide a more human voice but I'm not
sure how to do this and was wondering if
you could help in any way I know this
has put many VI in blind PC users off
either using or making the switch to
Linux because the screen reader sounds
like a Dalek what's the daily dollar
Dalek from set from Doctor Who sorry
okay I'm gonna get there at some point
I'm gonna watch that show I use
discreetly I use this screen magnifier a
lot by using compiz fusion in Ubuntu
14.04 eine fication yeah yeah that's the
ability that's like when I that's this
is compus fusion I can do that and that
helps so much when you need to be able
to read the word test and you can blow
it up big like that on your your 52 inch
TV hmm that's kind of cool now I have to
say on a different note I fiancee not my
fiancee
Dave's fiancee he's around 17 17 weeks
pregnant with their first child who's
going to be a Linux lover and three
stepchildren already run Linux and in a
shape of a boom tube so I just want to
say Linux all the way Dave says all the
best and live long and prosper the Linux
way okay
festival is a Linux tool that does
text-to-speech right right
it is Dalek like so does that mean
robotic yes
exterminate X diamond a why wouldn't
they just make it more is there a way to
make it more heat well you got to think
about the intricacies of text-to-speech
it has to create the nuances of speech
and so it's gonna sound computerize my
GPS that does a really good job because
a GPS has some real person reading the
script so a microphone what how many
things does the GPS say maybe street
names tells me to take a lot of u-turns
but how many turn left turn right make a
u-turn so these are statements that can
be pre-recorded and then played back
right and so they will sound real
because they are not auto generated by
the computer they're actually recorded
statements expect I just I want there to
be a solution for Dave CMU Arctic voices
has better sounding voices and they have
a demo page if you go to fest Vox dot
org slash voice demos dot HTML there it
is
fest Vox festival voice okay so these
this will allow you to try some of the
Arctic voices that are available from
the CMU speech people and this this will
give you an idea of what it sounds like
so you can try out some of those and
then what I'll do we don't really have
time here tonight to show you how to do
this so what I'll do instead is I'll
tell you where to go I'll post a link
for you it's kind of complicated what
you can do is you can import these
higher end speech voices okay like
computerized actors if you will into
Festival okay and so then you can
utilize the better voice files
from this other sound text-to-speech
engine and create something that sounds
a lot better and they're freely
available and sound great I would love
to volunteer my voice I will just read
all of the English language it's like
all the fun with that be really have my
voice freed a whole screen to you yeah I
never really quite sounds like you oh it
does sound robotic oh well hopefully
that helps Dave Dave I'm gonna post I've
just posted something for you in the
chat room just to give you a link to
those files so that you can you can give
them a listen and what I would do is get
into Google and type festival better
voices the first thing that comes up is
how to make festival use better voices
in the Ubuntu forums
it's an old post but still relevant best
Vox org is a good resource as I've
previously showed you there and you're
gonna see a lot of different things
there just knowing what you're looking
for so it's really two to use festival
with the CMU speech synthesis right
that's what you want to look for and
there are countless tutorials on how to
do that if you have any trouble then
please let me know and that would be a
great demonstration I think and in fact
Sasha one of the things that we're gonna
be doing and then in the reasonably near
future I'm actually in talks right now
not with text-to-speech developers but
with speech-to-text developers okay
because we are going to be building
using a Raspberry Pi and some other
hardware okay we're going to actually be
building our own Amazon echo style
system that we're going to be able to
use voice control voice commands to to
do various operations and it will be
able to speak back to us using
artificial intelligence therefore we
will be tuning into
like festival because it's all gonna be
powered by Linux on the Raspberry Pi so
these are topics that we are going to be
covering in season 9 which is coming up
this is sooner than you and I can
believe so make sure you send in your
questions and make sure that those are
covered for I can't believe how quickly
the time flies
this happens every week sorry if we
didn't get to your questions folks but
we do our best and we'd love to keep
receiving almost did all the questions
whoa most there's only one more oh that
one person sitting in the chat room I'm
so sorry
see you'll have to tune in next you can
see which question really in question
same bat-time please don't forget okay I
know we're over time free play buddy I
got one to give away it's going out next
week so you are down to the wire
email contest at category-five dot TV
and then you will just give me your
username on the website and you'll be
good to go all right yeah and we'll do
the draw next week see ya we hope you
enjoyed the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every Tuesday at 7 p.m. Eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category-five
TV and find out when you can watch live
and interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
Creative Commons Attribution
two-point-five Canada we'll see you next
time thanks for tuning in
