uh tonight we've got Ryan joining us
from proof proof point and he's the
senior vice president of cyber security
strategy Ryan it's nice to have you here
thanks for joining us tonight it's great
to be here Ryan can you kind of tell us
a little bit about proofpoint just out
the gate so that we so the viewers who
are not familiar with your company can
just kind of have a bit of a back story
as to what it is that you do yeah sure
so we're a publicly-listed cyber
security company we focus on protecting
the way people work which is absolutely
under assault these days mostly by
threats transmitted by email social
media and as we're going to talk about
tonight all the laps very good thanks
now you perform threat summaries and
analyses over the course of any given
year and your quarter three summary just
came out I believe just a couple of days
ago if i'm not mistaken so could you
tell us a little bit about what you've
seen as far as the trends go in kind of
the malware you know how things of
transition I've seen a lot of transition
over to mobile and that's a big concern
I'd love to hear a little bit about what
you found in your current summary before
we kind of really get into things
tonight yeah absolutely hey I mean we
see a very broad swath of data we see
the email traffic for about just north
fifty percent with Fortune 100 some of
the largest organizations in the world
and operating some of those sensitive
sectors so quite a lot of the Wolves
threats hit them in some way shape or
form and as he looked at the threat
landscape in q3 it was basically a
magnified version of what we saw in the
three months prior to that you had
ransomware absolutely out of control on
the email vector on it one particular
ransomware family in fact known as
lackey for the file extension it creates
was responsible for about ninety seven
percent of the billions and billions of
malicious messages that we saw swims
three are we talking like an evolution
of say the cryptolocker style ransomware
here on PCs are we looking at as this
evolved to to other platforms as well it
is mostly silky see specific the
cryptolocker crypt XX there are actually
dozens of families of ransom yeah
it's actually up about fifty three
percent in the last quarter alone in
there all of course related in that they
try and do similar things they're
actually kind of more interesting
versions of rents where emerging that do
slightly different things I would point
out one of my personal I wouldn't say
favorites but ones of interest that
that's called petia PTY a that actually
does what the malware in the Sony attack
famously did really over rights the
Master Boot Record of the computer
rendering it unusable at the time it's
it's actually rebooted so ransomware is
continuing to evolve not just on PCs but
it's been extending to other platforms
as well there is ransomware that now
exists in the wild for Android devices
there were occasional flurries of Little
Mac flare-ups that didn't tend to be
very common there was actually even a
ransomware variant for linux that didn't
last very long before someone actually
figured out what their key generation
algorithm was oh very good way to
actually decrypt my files paint a
Bitcoin ransom just for those viewers
who are here tonight and not familiar
with terms the terminology that we may
be using ransomware is is a fairly
frightening type of malware because it
can cause data loss data theft people
being able to compromise your files and
that's where things get very scary
because you may have pictures of your
kids or you may have company emails you
may have very important business data
customer information and things like
that and the reason that this type of
malware is called ransomware is
essentially it holds your files ransom
and then usually gives a prompt or
something along those lines that says
hey you need to call this number you
need to do this or that and transfer
money or provide a credit card
information there holding your files
ransom and that's a very scary thing so
we're starting to see this on the
Android platform you say we are and and
the the malware landscape for mobile
devices is is one that's very much
emerging you see mobile malware
basically a few years behind the
evolution of the same sorts of threats
that affect pcs okay
but there of course extremely related in
what they're trying to do and also how
they represent themselves if you think
about the typical ransomware that a
person would receive on a PC it's
probably actually going to arrive in an
email it'll be attached as a file that
looks like a very legitimate business
document may be a financial statement or
an invoice that has some urgency to it
right this is past due please open this
up and pay it something along those
lines the sort of thing that most of us
would absolutely open and and then it
would of course if you clicked on the
little yellow bar at the top actually
start encrypting your files on the
mobile side it's a little different in
that the ransomware has to exist in the
form of an app that's really the only
way that sort of thing can be installed
on most mobile devices in the way that
these system architecture operating
system architecture effective works so
what that means for the end user is
you're probably going to receive mobile
amounts ransomware via a link again that
could come to you by an email it
actually could come via an SMS as well
and if you go to that link and install
an app most of the time it's not going
to come from google play or rather
what's sanctioned app store that app can
do whatever you entrust it to do on your
device and most people when they install
something to tap ok ok ok I want to use
this app and that's very much how
reservoir tends to evolve on the mobile
platforms can I throw a scenario at you
Ryan that my wife actually encountered
just this past week just just because
what we've seen on PCs and now we are
starting to see on on mobile as well and
you've likely seen it a lot longer time
than I have because of the industry that
you're in my wife was apparently this is
the story anyway so you can tell me if
she this is this is the lie detector
test here so she was looking at news
sites and reading blogs and things like
that and all of a sudden her phone this
is an android device said your phone is
infected now that Tim he strikes me as
possibly infected advertising but what
was different about this is she quickly
exited out because she she knows too you
know
get out of anything that looks like it
might be suspicious but then handed her
phone to me in order to just make sure
that everything's okay and sure enough
on her dashboard was a root tool for
rooting the phone and something that is
commonly used by hackers as well as
legitimate users to root a phone so that
they have full access to the root
filesystem so how is it that something
like that could get into her phone just
surfing the web so that is it I think
your instincts were correct there that
is what we would call mal vertising
right so a fully legitimate site that
engages with a third-party provider for
to fill the advertising space on that
site which is equally true in a
traditional web browser on a PC and in a
mobile web browser on a mobile device
that they will serve up ads that very
often are malicious and point to things
that either automatically invoke a
download or invoke a download in such a
way that then the screen is immediately
obscured there's actually a strange sort
of cousin to this which even exists on
iOS which we often refer to as scareware
where if you browse to the wrong site
and you can get there any number of ways
including by an advertising link for the
sole legitimate site right if your
browser the wrong site it fills the
screen and it basically enters into what
is it was effectively and anyone has
ever taken a computer science course
will know about this mistake what's
called an infinite loop right so if you
write a software program usually
incorrectly it will essentially go
around in circles if you make a certain
type of coding sting in this case the
attackers are actually intentionally
making that mistake so that the phone
effectively goes around in circles while
the web browser is running what is
actually JavaScript code to those who
are technically interested right it will
then basically freeze the screen display
a message usually fairly threatening
message like the one I'm sure your wife
saw yeah and i will tell you to either
call a number or visit a website and pay
some Bitcoin to unlock the phone but
what it really is is just a broken piece
of JavaScript on a website Wow and for
users perspective the phone becomes
unusable
because all the classic techniques don't
work you can't tap it and i cant it wont
do anything more technically
sophisticated users will probably
immediately be thinking but why don't
you do a hard reset that's actually the
answer you push those buttons on the
phone for iOS and different combinations
for Android and just reset the phone
everything will be fine right absolutely
we saw fraudsters making quite a lot of
money this is scam is it on iOS device
so is it quite often strictly a trick is
it a social engineering trick to try to
get you to follow the directions or is
it actually infected the system most of
the time it is a trick and that follows
a general pattern in cyber ground there
is a huge shift towards social
engineering away from sophisticated
technical exploits this doesn't always
get accurately captured in the media
where there is still quite a lot of
focus on things like I would call out
the Pegasus attack from a couple months
ago when I was a state-sponsored attack
on a couple of journalists that actually
involved three different iOS zero days
chained together that's not the likely
thing everyone is going to encounter
right it is much more likely to run into
this sort of scare where it's designed
to get a little money out of you hmm
okay so why would you say this type of
attack is on the rise you alluded to the
fact that some of these malware creators
are making money off of this off of
tricking users obviously that's the case
what what is the driving force behind
behind malware rising on the mobile
platform it's simple economics I think
at this point now where authors are
basically businessman in most ways and
their businesses look like SAS
businesses they want us there are
resources where the greatest return is
and as people move away from traditional
computing platforms like pcs and onto
mobile devices more sensitive data goes
there to people care more about the
information that's stored there than
they might care about the information on
their own pc so it's a very logical
place for the malware authors to try and
move to even though actually most mobile
operating systems and are included are a
lot more secure than most historical PC
operating systems
because they were constructed at a later
date when more things were known about
what good security practice looked like
an operating system so when it comes to
these you know increased attacks is
there a specific group that's being
targeted like is it are they primarily
trying to hit like elderly people who
are just getting onto these phones out
no clue what they're doing or is is
there a target group that are they're
looking to get are just a blank and see
who's out there I mobile malware at this
point is very difficult to target so it
is sort of spray and pray from the
attackers perspectives they're looking
to put malicious links in very cheap
ways on lots of sites where they're
likely to encounter the sort of
unsophisticated users you're talking
about on the PC side of things
ransomware 4pcs is often highly targeted
at organizations that are going to have
sort of things like file shares which we
saw aliens like crypt XX go after those
are the shared servers where a lot of
different people put their files that
are tend to be very valuable to say a
hospital or a school district or or
incorporation and that type of malware
is very very targeted at a different
organization it's likely to have a lot
of money because they care up or a lot
of money that they'll pay to unlock
those files because they care a lot
about the value of those files on the
mobile side is much harder to do that
same sort of targeting that is fairly
easily do based on something like email
address sure I would expect that the pc
and the things based on what you're
saying there would be probably grander
scale as well because if I were to you
know as a if I was a hacker attacking a
company if I could get into one system
that could go out on the network and
encrypt all of the files on network
shares usually there's a you know a
shared server somewhere that's got a
samba share that you know the whole
company uses then all of a sudden you're
not in trouble right and you yet
actually have now seen ransomware go
after that first so it won't encrypt the
logo right look for that network share
first yeah and very often it might even
look for the backups to that network
share first before it starts to actually
encrypting the primary which is
extremely clever and extremely evil when
you think about it yeah it's funny
though you mentioned you know trying to
go after things like me
the education settings and immediately
my thought goes to the fact that you
know with my kids school they don't send
home or they're trying to move away from
sending home paper paper knowns and it's
kids or have computers with emails and
they're emailing parents and I'm
thinking man if they can infect a school
and then hit all the parents you know by
cycling through an email I mean you can
do some serious damage when they had a
absolutely have it made it if you think
about how much you would personally pay
for the files that are either on your
mobile device or on your PC if they were
locked up by somebody and you didn't
have them somewhere else it's usually a
big number and that's why the rent
ransomware actually is a is a reasonably
quantifiable security problem which
actually sits in contrast to a lot of
others and it's because of one of the
fundamental pieces of technology that's
enabled this to grow and scale which is
Bitcoin right so we know what bitcoin
wallets are associated with these
ransomware campaign attackers and we can
look because it's public ledger like how
much money they're making off of all
this and it's hundreds millions of
dollars so we're talking about anonymous
currency here being used in an
untrackable way to put things into
perspective because you think you know
well I wouldn't pay for my files and
things but let's say you know look at
your phone pull out your phone and take
a look now here we are in 2016 my phone
is chock full of photos of my kids that
mean a lot people take their phones to
weddings and special events they take a
bunch of pictures and they're not always
prompt to back up those files and
transfer them which means having at
least two copies and one copy that is
completely air-gapped from the network
so we're talking an external hard drive
stored in a drawer somewhere or
something like that but to put it into
perspective here so if I had a hard
drive with all of my data on it that was
really important to me and this happens
okay so here's a scenario you've got a
hard drive that has all of the files
that are your kids photos and all of
these other things that mean a lot to
you to look at it from a consumer
standpoint because your phone is
generally your
files and that hard drive crashes will I
go to data recovery and say okay I need
these files these are important to me
how much is it going to cost to get
these files back and this is a
legitimate my hard drive has crashed I
need these files back and sometimes a
data recovery can cost thousands of
dollars in a worst-case scenario so when
someone takes over my phone and says for
300 pounds or you know six hundred
dollars you're going to get your files
back the temptation may be there to say
okay yeah I'm going to do that because
these are important to me it's my data
recovery it's the way to get these files
back right how dangerous is it for us
Ryan to actually pursue that and hit
that button that says okay I'm going to
I'm going to buy my files back I think
there are really two concerns that pop
up there and the first one I would
actually say is an ethics concern the
people behind cybercrime are very bad
people cyber crime has been used to fund
real world terrorism as well as cyber
terrorism and giving money to bad people
is not something anyone should do
lightly so what's best is of course to
have that air-gapped copy of all of the
data that you cared about that doesn't
actually run the risk of being encrypted
by ransomware but the second concern is
is one of simple logistics very often
these read somewhere these ransomware
variants will have a very short fuse and
they will count down and they were awful
they will often destroy your files along
the way as they count down often times
you don't have more than 24 hours so one
of one of the really i find this almost
a disturbing practice but it's sort of
the reality we live in one of the
practices that's starting to happen at
large companies is they will actually go
out and buy some Bitcoin in advance
because it's not the sort of thing that
you can go get from the bank down the
street yeah just in case they need it
for ransom worst arrows because this has
become absolutely endemic why they
wouldn't be sending billions of emails
is it if it didn't work
because they they have to pay some
botnet operator you know that's a that
is a sad fact I'd be sure we're speaking
with ryan callum burr from proof point
and he is the senior vice president of
cybersecurity strategy there at proof
point com we need to ask it and I hate
to do this kind of a question but
Android versus iOS we're talking about
mobile tonight where are we safest
between these two platforms if you are
talking about the average user your
safest on iOS I simply because that's
all the time that we have for tonight so
not what I wanted to hear yeah I know
that the if you look at the basic facts
that go into evaluating the threats that
you will very likely encounter on an
Android device versus an iOS device you
really have no more than three major
considerations one is how easy it is to
update the pad update and patch that
device as vulnerabilities are exposed
and here this is not actually androids
fault it's not anything that Google can
control but when you are on the carrier
variants of Android and right don't get
updates the same way you do for iOS
which is much more controllable in that
sense your windows of exposure for these
broad-based types of attacks like stage
fright most notably are longer and that
is something that impacts the average
user especially when some of those those
attacks can be spread by simple SMS and
not anything that can be controlled the
lighting user right the second piece of
mobile risk that I think is relevant
here is the apps themselves it is very
very difficult although possible to find
your way to a rogue App Store for iOS it
actually in most cases involves doing
one of two things either jailbreaking
the device which is complicated and most
users don't even have the technical
sophistication to do
I wouldn't recommend it unless you are
an expert you're very attuned to the
security settings link uncomfortable
with or actually the second way that you
can often get an app that has not gone
through any security review onto your
device is to find your way to any one of
the many many rogue app stores out there
we monitor about 150 of them actually
that they do something that's kind of
interesting so if you are a company say
I'm acne inked and I have an acne app
for my own employees but I don't want to
put this in the public App Store I can
go out to apple and pay a few hundred
dollars i believe this for what's called
an enterprise signing certificate and
then i can write my own apps using xcode
the same way you develop normal iOS apps
I can sign them using my own certificate
and then I can provision them using
what's called an enterprise app store so
this Acme app gets on to all my users
devices and it never gets to the public
app store that actually has a lot of
legitimate business purposes that you
can imagine sure does not but cyber
criminals have realized that oh wait
what if I steal one of those enterprise
signing apps and then come up with
counterfeit versions of all those very
popular apps that everybody likes to pay
a lot of money for I could set up one
amazing counterfeit app store basically
add Napster for apps for iOS because
there's actually no technical limit how
many apps you can sign with one error
price-cutting search ouch so now we are
actually seeing you saw this actually
for the first time at a very large
healthcare company one of their users
had interesting app on his or her phone
I don't want to give anyone's identity
whether yes actually it was a lego star
wars out can that's not unusual at all
yeah I have that on my phone for the
kids exactly but this lego star wars app
didn't exist in any app store and it was
on an iOS device that wasn't jailbroken
so the question was where did it come
from and we eventually traced it back to
a very large counterfeit app store in
China called V share still running if
you want to go check it out of each
Eircom where they can find
free versions of every popular paid app
in both the Google Play and Apple app
stores and they're just absolutely
identical except the fact that there's
probably not wearing a good percentage
of them so that whole recommendation
just there we will retract that don't go
there don't install them that's like I
would just kind of qualify it and that
the same thing is a maple pull on the
google site as well it's actually easier
to trust a another app store in the the
way the android operating system is is
set up if you go to settings you can
actually trust absolute right turn on
like developer mode precisely and you're
in your and it you're not even actually
having to find your way to one of these
crazy off friend app stores that are
actually very good at things like SEO so
a google search for the free lego star
wars that will likely guide you there
but are not the sort of thing that the
normal user who stays within the bounds
of the app store is ever going to
encounter and the interesting thing
about those apps is because they've
never been reviewed by Apple or Google
they could be doing anything on the
device they gave me a full-blown remote
access virgin because it they can access
any private api and they've never gone
through the traditional sorts of
security checks so actually the average
user who stays within the bounds of a
typical app store will be fine on either
platform but lots of users really don't
want to pay a few dollars for a nap and
find their way into a lot of trouble
probably you know and not to bring up
old news here Ryan but we see it's not
just for software piracy to get a free
app we saw with that Pokemon go came
over and it wasn't available all around
the world so people were hearing about
it the news was talking about it but
people couldn't install it so here in
Canada for example people started going
to these counterfeit app stores and
installing it on their phone and that's
a good scenario you know a good example
of hey it's it's more than just piracy
absolutely and we found one of the one
Pokemon go variant that had something
called a droid jack which is basically
surveillance software
in the codes for the Pokemon go app so
it's like super spy stuff here is yeah
like that's like if you ever watch
person of interest and they the you know
blue gap or whatever the phones and
stuff and start the intercepting calls
and right so with those kind of apps
like I know when the compromise Pokemon
goal apps are coming out i mean you
download the one from the App Store and
there's you know let's access your
photos your camera that's the other
thing to your phone but then you get the
malicious one and it wants to access
everything so if you get an app that you
download and you notice it wants to
access everything is that a good tip-off
that there's probably something wrong
with the app or is that just possible
that the programmers didn't really think
too much and we're like oh we need
access to everything just in case like
it is that a good indicator that there's
something wrong with the app it is a
good indicator that there is either
something wrong with the app or that the
developers don't pay enough attention to
set the security and privacy concerns
right so it is something always to be
cognizant of that you are mostly going
to be the one who subjects yourself to
security risk on a mobile platform
simply because is they're very very
secure operating systems by default both
Android and iOS the apps though very
often have legitimate reasons to access
your data and Android and iOS don't
control what those apps do with your
data so if you are actually trusting
that app and that app developer to
access some data on your device like
your photos like your location like your
emails like your SMS lawns you should
think very hard about whether to accept
that or not and just tapping through and
accepting the default settings is very
often not a good idea but certainly for
me user perspectives were all fairly
impatient now and it's not sort of thing
enough users pay attention to right so
that begs the question if you're you
know you've done your whatever it is
you're doing you've installed this app
is it just enough to delete
you have to get rid of it like how do
you rid yourself to make sure that
you're protected and with that what
happens if you've done a backup like say
you do have one of those malicious apps
on an iOS device where when you do your
backup that backup is everything if you
do a restore you get everything unlike
with an Android you can do your backup
of your photos so you have to wipe your
phone you get through your photos back
on much easier so right how do you get
rid of it and when it comes to backups
from your computer could they still be
infected and are you just perpetually
going in circles it is a good question
actually so one of the one of the
examples that leaps to mind is I was
recently working with the chief
information security officer of the navy
league like University on the East Coast
the United States and he had an
interesting problem with a professor the
professor just had somebody who was very
clearly reading his email and
downloading his files from a cloud file
repository and that first wasn't being
terribly subtle about it and it didn't
matter how many times the professor
changed his password this will still
happen so the the security officers are
quite rightly assumed that oh this is
probably a keylogger on your laptop
you've got some sort of malware there
she brought in the laptop which was a
normal windows pc scanned it with every
tool he hat and it came back completely
clean so scrambling a bit he then asked
the professor do you have any a home pc
that you that you use I said no
absolutely not this is my only pc it's a
laptop and then thinking quickly the
follow-up question was all right is
there any other device where you enter
your password the professor has said
sharp i have iphone and so the security
officer looks at the iphone completely
normal up-to-date not jailbroken no
obvious signs of risk but it had about
200 apps on it so he asked him to take
that the little view svt lightning cable
plug it back in to iTunes back up the
phone and then resync and uncheck the
one
box next to apps which is something you
can actually do so they sink to
everything except the apps and then
change his password and that worked so
one of those apps was just stealing his
credentials over and over again and
that's the sort of thing we are seeing
happen more and more frequently as you
trust apps with even email credentials
so like a third party email client for
example would be detective that can
trust with this and and that's actually
compromising good in a much broader way
just even what's a mobile device scary
stuff well you I appreciate your time so
much Ryan I know we've been speaking for
a little while about mobile malware and
how that is impacting society and users
in general we all have a phone in our
pocket the kind of the the final
discussion that we need to have with you
is what is there you know on my computer
I've got anti-malware and I'm able to
protect myself from computer viruses
with with anti malware on your phone is
it as simple as installing an
application that will protect you from
these kinds of things on both platforms
android and iOS it's not quite that
simple unfortunately because there's
really actually two things that you
would worry about one is these sort of
rogue apps that we've been talking about
which are often hard to identify and
many of them actually make it into the
proper app stores so what you really
have to be vigilant about as user is
what those apps have access to in terms
of your own data is they could be
something that you wouldn't actually
call malware but they would be doing
something that you would never think is
ok with your data so if you had for
example this is a very common example a
business card scanner app that just
uploaded a business card and turned it
into a contact via what's called optical
character recognition sure you don't
have to enter it yourself and it has
access to your contacts obviously
because it's uploading contacts very
often those those apps will just sell
your information as well as the
information of everybody who's in your
contacts to marketing firms Wow and
that's the sort of thing that just is
endemic and is hard to identify
hi and so really it's a matter of
understanding what apps you've given
what permissions to and trying to be
thoughtful about that the second thing
that is worth pointing out is Wi-Fi
alright so this is the same way that you
can connect to a malicious Wi-Fi network
with a PC you can mitigate that risk
slightly by using a VPN you can very
easily do that on a with a wireless
device as well or a cellular device and
those Wi-Fi networks that you often find
in airports that pop up free Wi-Fi for
the show alphabetically towards the top
of the list of SSIDs very very likely to
be fraudulent and those very often doing
incall it in the middle attacks and
consent things like passwords if you
have to enter them in a web browsing
sessions while you're connected to that
road Wi-Fi there are a few apps in the
App Store that can actually help you
identify with Wi-Fi networks and those
are very very good ideas from the
security best practices standpoint for
everyone especially those of us who
travel frequently so what you're saying
is when I see that open network that
says FBI surveillance van I should you
know it raises so many there's so many
frightening concerns and you know you
were in this world where I look for open
Wi-Fi and I want to use it and I save on
my data plan because it's free and
available to me so maybe we just gotta
watch for for ones that we know and
trust we're speaking with ryan from
proof point he is the SVP of
cybersecurity strategy Ryan where can we
get more information resources to help
us stay safe on our mobile devices so at
Birth wacom we focus on mobile quite
heavily in our threat research you can
find that at what we call our threatened
site blog and we wrote about the Pokemon
go malware we wrote about what we're
seeing as a broader trend in q3 in that
quarterly chart report you mentioned
earlier and we also have quite a lot of
best practices for everyone when they
use mobile devices that are all of their
own proof Wacom
very good Ryan thank you so much for
your time tonight all the best and great
speaking with you it was a pleasure care
cheers
you
