the following program is made possible
by the friends and partners of God quest
ministries
what could fossils have to do with the
gospel well from the CTN studio in
Pensacola Florida this is the creation
today show on one of your host Erick
oven and i'm joined by paul taylor and
today we've got a very special guest
with us in the studio all the way from
Australia we've got John Mackay with us
in the studio again welcome John I'll
say g'day mate I got it right that's all
right you got questions this is your
show send them into questions at
creation today dot o RG we got a lot of
great stuff we're going to share with
you some really cool stuff about Polly
strata fossils and what does this have
to do with the gospel I'm real curious
how you're going to answer that so sit
back relax and enjoy the next couple
minutes as we talk to you about creation
the Bible and the gospel
we're really excited to have a special
guest all the way from Australia who's
been on a tour for a number of weeks now
away from home traveling and speaking in
universities and churches around the
world and so John we're really excited
to have you on the show today thanks for
being good to be back again mate and I'm
looking forward to sharing some of the
fossil evidence you got a solid eyes
rockso the rock solid evidence I'm
looking forward to that as well before
we get to that we got a lot to talk
about i was looking at some of his
pictures before the show he's got some
really cool stuff to show us before we
get to that we wanted to write remind
you guys about the the proof of God
conference we were just months away now
from this conference you need to get
your applications and make sure you're
registered for the proof of God
conference which will be held near
Orlando direct reading alone in Florida
so get on to the website creation today
o RG or you could have a look at proof
conference com yeah there's going to be
some great speakers there I'm there
really are man we gotta let's see here
I'm losing him here Mark Smith's from
way of the master a friend of mine Carl
Kirby from reason for Hope ministry man
he's got some great messages sites and
working K from proof that God exists org
a bloke named Paul Taylor who's just a
fine fine individual got to sleep doing
that one and then I'm going to show up
there as well and we got some we're
getting some incredible breakout
speakers as well lloyd anderson from the
seven wonders museum we've seen his talk
on Mount st. Helens and how it
represents what all it shows us about
rapid of formation geologic formation
and what occurred at Mount st. Helens
it's that's going to be real fun to wear
to hear what he has to say as well and
of course if you're in Washington state
then go and have a look at the seven
wonders Museum on the way up two months
and happens as we did it is it's
beautiful absolutely beautiful you got
to go check that out another
announcement I want to make you guys
were we are moving forward with the
Genesis project if you want to see some
behind-the-scenes footage of what we're
doing and how it's going you need to go
to Genesis series.com that's Genesis
series com to have a look at that not to
mention you like speaking in churches as
well don't you Paul I like speaking in
churches I like speaking anywhere and
remember that if you want to book either
Eric or myself then you can you
get on to our website and you can you
can book us people often email and say
why haven't you come to speak in X yet
and the reason is because there isn't a
church in X has invited us yet so if you
live in X wherever that is then then get
on to us and we will be there will speak
at your church at your event and we
would love to do so and also you'll find
if you go to our website and look at the
events page places that we are speaking
events that are coming up ok now what do
fossils have to do with the gospel
that's what we're going to find out from
John Makai you know John many years ago
I remember hearing you speak to many
years ago and I care to remember really
you mean before my grandchildren called
me a faucet whenever it was probably
still still knee high to a grasshopper
and I remember you talking about Joshua
going over the over the river and Joshua
got the people to bring stones together
I put them in a pile didn't see and of
course what sawadee wanted ram was for
people to say when your children say
what do these stones mean then you can
tell them well that's that that's to do
with God God bringing us out of each it
was like a testimony to history to what
God had done now your argument if we
want really the illustration you are
using is that basically fossils are
pretty similar in a sense to they really
are i mean when i first got involved in
this it was because an evangelist came
and saw mean he said I do a lot of work
in schools and nine out of ten students
are saying why you bothering telling us
about Jesus Christ we know Adam and Eve
aren't true and their logic was millions
of years of fossils prove evolution the
lecture has said so the teacher has said
so the textbook has said so and he said
to me you're mr. geologist you're mr.
science what do I say and so I said Lord
you better help me find out what to say
so it's then then really that a fossil
is is almost really a gospel tract in a
sense because it's a it's a record their
of of the flood well it's a record of a
the brilliance of God as the Creator who
made things to produce after their kind
and secondly you only get fossils when
they're buried real fast then I bought a
lot
to show today normally I carry them in
my pockets but the first lot are too big
for me to do that now before we get into
seeing some of these pictures you are a
geologist that's what you got your
degree in it yeah actually I trained in
geology and I trained in education so
I've done the gamut and wandered around
the globe for the past 30 years digging
up dinosaurs and fossils of this that
and everything else including my
favorite polystrate trees Wow and you
weren't always a creationist either no
no I was at University before I even
began to doubt the theory of evolution
and it was really the textbooks we had a
textbook by Professor Carter and I keep
telling people this that at Carter
professor from Oxford you know not the
Oxford Mississippi they're the real way
like yeah that's right and he would tell
us that you know here's all the
wonderful diagrams of how evolution
supposed to happen but at the end of
every chapter you can't see this in the
rocks and why okay one chapter I can
understand too but I've got a pretty
good memory and I would memorize the
pages and the last page gave a summary
of the whole book and he said once the
fossils appear they appear suddenly and
they seem to be inherently stable and I
thought well if that's the case why do I
believe in evolution I am I struggling
so I thought I'm going to go and find
out what all the evidence is and well
you can see I've been finding evidence
for quite a long time and after 30 to 40
years of digging up rocks Carter is
right the fossils shows stability after
their kind in other words just like the
Bible says and of course will bring up
rapid catastrophic burial in a moment as
well and okay I got to see some of these
pictures what do you got for us okay
well I'm going to turn on my data
projector here we're going to take you
to his trail you can see the big red
arrow there Paul I'm sorry big yellow
arrow and that's where we're going to
start there's me with one of our
Australian polystrate trees you can see
people need to send donations we
geologists need better clothes than that
was a middle of summer and of course
there's the most famous ones in the
world the ones that Charles Lyell and
Dawson and the others found in Nova
Scotia jorgens is the place but since
then I've been to places like washing
there's one of my most recent ones here
there you see the tree just standing up
there but it's buried in basalt and of
course the interesting thing is the tree
had to be absolutely saturated to
survive that because bath salts at a
thousand degrees so it's been underwater
and of course if folks are wondering
what polystrate means Kentucky you know
whether all talk like that sorry about
your folks in container but you can see
my colleague Bob power at the bottom
it's not the best picture of him you can
just see the back of his head Bob's one
of our geologists here in the USA and
you can see I've got the word strata
marked out and hence polystrate it goes
through many strata we're on the border
of Tennessee and Kentucky and the thing
that's always fascinated me about these
is many of the ones that I've dug up
have no roots now you don't have to be
Einstein to figure out the fact that if
they have no roots they didn't grow
there if they didn't grow there they
grew somewhere else if they grew
somewhere else they've been picked up
carried long dumped and buried before
they fell over but here's the most
exciting one after a big landslide I
noticed this little bit of a fossil tree
poking out so we got up and we cleaned
it up a bit we filmed at all because
these things do have a habit of eroding
with time and as I cleaned it out I
noticed one spectacular thing see where
the red arrow is my I got the color
right this time I noticed that the
leaves were still attached to this tree
Wow right now you live in a country
where trees every year lose their leaves
yeah and you know how long it takes for
those leaves to fall off nah so these
trees did not take long to get buried
they were buried before the leaves fell
off and so I've been challenging people
around the globe with two things one is
how did you get this fossil into the
rocks to how long did it actually take
because there's so many people out there
say the Bible couldn't possibly be true
because it says in six days God created
and the rock show millions of years all
the time that's yeah it's been really
encouraging over the years to actually
see many of these things that God has
blessed us with
this is fascinating information I love
this stuff now our fossil trees is that
all we find there's there other stuff on
earth is lots of other stuff this is
even possible people and fossil
dinosaurs and false a trilobite will get
close to that let's talk about that in
just a minute those will be coming right
up but for now we need to take a short
break join Eric koban and Paul tater
from creation today org along with Carl
Kirby of reason for hope ministries mark
Spence of the way of the master in
sienten brueggen gate of proof that God
exists org for the proof of God
conference in orlando florida for more
information visit proof conference com
that's proof conference com or call toll
free 1 877 479 3466 the creation today's
show would like to thank category 5 TV
for being so generous in airing our
program its donations from people just
like you that allow category 5 to keep
the data streaming to your computer TV
or tablet you haven't had a chance this
week pop on over to patreon com category
5 and take them out to eat so to speak
it would mean the world to them and you
get the blessing of giving in return
you
welcome back you're watching creation
today with me Paul Taylor and with Eric
joven and our very special guest john
mckay and we'd be talking about
polystrate fossils and we've been
talking about lots of information about
fossils and of course there's lots more
information that you've got John that we
can't sort of fit into the program and
where should people go if they want to
find out more than me and well we've set
up our creation research net web site
and you just go to the front page click
on search and then under evidence search
put in words like trees or polystrate
that's pol y-str 80 straight and as a
creation research net and you'll see
lots and lots of exciting pictures on
things like that and of course another
thing is that we take questions on this
show and of course you take questions
too and if people want to ask you a
question John then they need to go to
ask john mckay dot-com that's correct i
and by the way you say McKay over here
we say Mac are you say tomato we say
tomorrow you know so that's the way it
goes and whoever's got to be wrong and
other information about polystrate
fossils is found on the DVD Darwin rocks
which you did which was an incredible
variety we actually started over there
in Nova Scotia on that on the up DVD and
we took you all through the evidence
that even Darwin saw and actually we use
the term Darwin on the rocks because
English is such a wonderful language it
has so many meanings as I keep telling
people you need a lawyer to prove what
you actually said yeah but Darwin on the
rocks of course year of the Titanic
celebration shipwrecks evolution is
shipwrecked it is by all of the rocks
and fossils and particularly the poly
straight ones Wow okay so you're saying
you're telling us though that fossils
have something to do with a gospel I
mean you gave that verse from all about
the rocks will cry out go into that real
quick I mean what how is it the fossils
have something to do with the gas would
anyone actually be saved by seeing a
polystrate fossils okay remember I
started out by saying an evangelist came
and talked to me and said I'm trying to
witness to students and yes nine out of
ten of them are saying you're irrelevant
you know we know the Bible's not true in
their chief argument was that the
fossils the millions of years the theory
of evolution right
that was their chief objection he said
we didn't learn how to handle that at
bible college so it should be logical if
their chief problem is fossils and
millions of years and evolution then if
you want to reach them you have to
demolish that barrier first right so if
you're talking to same Muslims they
don't have that problem because they've
got a Koran that says God created so you
don't even need to defend creation you
just need to talk about who Jesus is is
he god or is he not God right but with
the majority of Americans or Australians
or British you have to discuss the
evidence why the rocks don't speak out
millions of years paul asked the
question has anybody been saved and i'm
always thrilled i'll put up a picture
now of these two now I met Dave at a
meeting never seen him before in my life
and his wife Jill was there and you can
see I took the picture and they're
smiling and Dave shared with me their
testimony that he was a policeman work
day shift she was a nurse work night
shift pretty rough sort of lifestyle
they'd been married he was a sort of non
committed Christian and she was not a
Christian at all so their marriage was
on the edge of breaking up you know a
recipe for disaster many way Jill came
home one night after doing night shift
dave was already asleep and she switched
on the TV and there's me right okay all
right lord thank you for that but what I
was talking about was polystrate trees
just like the pictures I've just showed
you right and the most important
evidence to realize is if you've got a
tree that's well the biggest one I've
dug up is 30 metres or a hundred feet
year I don't know and if you have trees
that go 30 meters through the rock then
the following logic is obvious number
one it was buried in less time than the
tree takes to go rock yes number two all
those layers didn't slowly get there one
on top of the other they had to get
there in less time than the tree took to
rot okay why wasn't Jill a Christian
problem the world is too old the Bible
couldn't possibly be true six days of
creation she knew what Genesis was about
you know and the problem was she thought
the evidence came from the rocks and
within 20 minutes she was a
on if that 30 meters got there like that
then even the Grand Canyon doesn't need
millions of years and by the morning
she'd abandoned millions of years of
evolution picked up a Bible and got
saved one day so when people ask me look
this isn't it you know they State this
is an irrelevant issue I so hang on it
may be irrelevant to you but what about
all the people who think the Bible is
false because of the millions of years
EG Jill but it gets even better so don't
go away okay folks because dave was
really challenged by this number one
their marriage was saved number two Jill
is now a Christian so he's equally yoked
number three he's been a pretty
lackadaisical Christian so he's really
challenged by what the Holy Spirit has
done in his wife so he thinks ok this
guy Creation Research now I'm going to
get some of their dvds and I'm going to
hand them out to the people I work with
who was he working with he was employed
by the government to work with
recovering drug addicts now if you've
ever worked with recovering drug addicts
in a government program when you're not
allowed to share Christ we are not
allowed to share anything biblical you
know the success rate is just about
Sierra yeah so Dave ignored all of that
and so it starts handing out dvds and
that when I spoke to him when I took
this picture he said in the last 18
months we've had three drug addicts say
and none of them have gone back to drugs
and the reason is simple the God who
created the universe has no trouble
fixing up a recovering drug addict
that's actually working on the real
hardest you the real transformation is
not what can I do its work in God doing
you you know I'm going to put up a Bible
verse because this struck me many years
ago and as Paul knows because he heard
me preach on this sort of stuff many
many years ago in England in fact as I
keep telling people you know I've been a
Christian now longer than Moses was in
the wilderness so I've got to know Jesus
really well and I've got to know the
factor when he says something he means
that what he means he says and he says
it such clear what words you can't miss
it so here he says in Luke 16 if people
don't believe Moses and the prophets
they won't believe even if one rose from
the dead to use is there
Moses go to jus Tirana me where Moses
said look for a profit just like me if
you want to reach out to the big Muslim
population here you need that verse
because they call most Muhammad the
Prophet right right so you can ask
simple questions like where did Moses
grew up Egypt where did Jesus grew up
Egypt may happen never went there Wow
simply you don't need thorough exegesis
of the Quran or anything just pretty
simple basic truth from Moses but of
course Moses is Genesis Exodus Leviticus
numbers Deuteronomy and what some the
good question so call ahead summon for
some 95 points to aerie Sabrina so what
you'll find is when people cannot accept
anything in Moses number one they reject
the fact that God created the world good
so they're always looking for somebody
else to blame number two they reject the
fact that we're the sinners they want
somebody else to blame number three they
reject God's right to judge because
there isn't any God because the world
evolved so therefore we don't have to
worry about judgment coming up so
therefore they're not concerned about
needing a savior end of argument about
the relevance of fossils it is
incredibly relevant to make sure that
wow this is this is cool well I know
that we've gotten a lot of testimonies
that have come in to our ministry I'm
sure you can that's not the only one you
can point to I'm sure you have others
that have come in of people saying God
uses that in my life to help me see the
truth you and that is that's what this
is all
that is the point all right more we John
I want to I want to get some more of
these other polystrate fossils and what
they could mean other than just the
fries will do that right after this
you're watching the creation today show
with Eric koban and Paul Taylor and our
special guest today John McKay all the
way from down under former evolution
geologists turn creationists and now for
more than a decade more than two decades
more than three decades now eating out
of the age of the unit has been studying
creation evolution and presenting it all
over our churches and schools and you
just got done with a trip or you're on
your trip right now you've already been
away for four weeks yes traveling to
when i started in british columbia at
minus 25 degrees goodness i think i just
about sonic boom does i got out of that
coming down here to florida is
definitely a pleasant trip tell us what
you've been doing because you were
recently involved in a debate series
that was not it was filmed and then a
post debate kind of email exchange yes
that's correct one of the professors who
got us involved in Paul you can hold
that up because we just released a DVD
called design of life this guy's just
come on board with Creation Research
creationism in general and professor at
neyland is the professor of synthetic
chemistry there and his job is to make
molecules and of course one reason is
now convinced God made the world in just
six days as if you try and make an
organic molecule to get anything close
to living things then you have to do it
real fast yeah because otherwise it
starts falling apart oh and so therefore
you know not only is it a great DVD on
the evidence in just the molecules that
God has used it's great to see a
professor taking a stand and is not
actually all that popular so pray for
professor at neyland okay yeah I can
imagine just like we've seen the movie
expelled and things like that you you
start questioning evolution and I'm sure
you face this is as enable you start
questioning it and they want to get you
out of this as I do quick that's right
while we've been looking at polystrate
fossils these are uh fossils that are
running up through several layers of
rock and according to the evolution
worldview these layers were laid down
over long periods of times you talking
hey I mean
an approximate to get you know a million
years get some in their worldview it's
how much sediment or does it well it
varies but usually they talk about you
know if you've got a strata then the
lifespan of the animal it's in it is the
least amount of time you would have
taken so if you've got a creature like a
dinosaur that lived for a hundred years
to bury it you've got to have at least
the hundred years for its life alright
and followed by how long it took to get
buried so they add up the life spans as
well as the time so they end up with
vast ages huge ages yeah and like this
three that you dug up that's 30 meters
about how many layers of rock is that
going or thousands housing goodness not
thousands of last sandy it's pretty
obvious isn't so that the tree was just
stood there slowly rotting away while
the sediment builds up over me yes Billy
except the top into the tree is just
what was the most confidence in the
millions of years long ago so really the
evidence is not the reason evolutionists
are evolutionists know their reason by
and large if you pin them to the wall is
they don't want a God who created who
therefore has a right to judge that's
what it really comes down to look we're
quite familiar with poly straits trees
and you know it's always spectacular to
find them you know and I remember you
finding one and when I lived in South
Wales and you finding one on the other
coast south southwest Wales so it's
always fascinating to see those sort of
things but of course you were telling us
before that it's not just trees that are
fossilized across layers no let me show
you some more there's geologist Bob pal
again we're in an old coal mine you can
see the vertical tree there but what was
fascinating about this coal mine was
there were polystrate everything's so
you can see the stem of a fern there and
we know it's a phone because I excavated
it you're beautiful yeah just what I
mean that's a beautifully preserved firm
and there's another one there's the
layer you can see the orange layer you
can see the fern going diagonally
there's a stem going across multiple
layers and I took you before to this
tree but you can see all the layers
there let's get closer up these are
layers in which when you pull them apart
there are leaves as well but what's
interesting is you ask what's the white
stuff in but
between the leaves and microscopically
it turns out to be Dayak diatoms
microscopic sea creatures in water
that's right and here's my most fabulous
discovery polystrate wise vertical
leaves across thousands of layers of
microscopic diatoms and you know one
thing you can't argue the diatom layers
took so long to get there because the
average evolution says it takes sort of
like a hundred years to get a teaspoon
of the things because there's millions
in a teaspoon they're so small so tiny
that's right but the bottom end of this
leaf is the same age as a top end of the
leaf so therefore that whole tree got
there really really quickly so I love to
challenge people you say millions show
it to me it's not here microscopic sea
creatures that live in the leaves of
trees yeah something's wrong day yeah or
perhaps the tree got wet they do three
get wet as it got better show you some
of the others we've got into our
collection here's one of the field trips
I run because I run these all around the
world the rocks you can break them open
you can see what looks like trilobites
that's what you're saying here we say
trilobite scalable okay there's one from
this area here and you can see there's a
three-dimensional impression here wow
it's in microscopic layers you dig even
further and you start to get really
thick trilobite sout and look at this
one he's got his eyeballs on source now
all of these are now in our creation
research collection you can see where
any of them miss the ocean research
stopping it for many of them and go to
our web museum go down the left hand
side click Museum and look at this guy
now when you go to bury a trilobite like
that it has to cross multiple layers so
because they simply need by definition
its 3d its polystrate and of course
because that's so well preserved and
it's also starting to roll up you know
it was buried frightened because the
only relatives of this guy today are the
little roly polies you need touch him
right there climb up these guys were
buried frightened their flat buried in
water and catastrophic Lee suddenly and
they from the start to the finish they
produce after their kind the rocks cry
up the praises of God who has always
been the same you
if you didn't know any better you'd
think there was a worldwide flood
exactly like the Bible said but some
people get educated beyond common sense
unfortunately man well that is our show
for today we're going to ask John to
stick around and see if we can have
another show next week so look forward
to next week what can we talk about next
week we got more stuff right yeah we got
lots more stuff I found some lovely
fossil thorns and we're going to discuss
the significance of those well talk
something like set sentria Greg Stanwick
if you have questions send them into
questions at creation today dot o RG of
course you can join us on Facebook and
Twitter yes twitter is apps creation
today that's right facebook.com forward
slash creation today so lots of great
stuff we want to thank you guys so much
for joining the creation today's show
and hope you're always learning more
that will help you further the gospel of
Jesus Christ god bless
this program is available on DVD by
visiting creation store RG or by calling
877 479 3466 to order this episode use
the item number displayed on your screen
