kay Daniels asks why in the world would
anyone suggest a Linux desktop that
looks like Windows gnome is like a
Ferrari or new Porsche compared to those
other desktop environments I'm tired of
the same windows taskbar taskbar a mess
if you keep many applications in
terminal windows open the old Windows 95
or XP type desktop starts to break down
navigating some of those menus on a
touchpad is sort of tricky too we worked
fine with track point or Mouse but not
on those new laptops I see on my
touchscreen I like the interface of like
the big buttons and things like that
even could go as far as saying that
single touch to open things makes a
little more sense but on my computer
personally I'm old-school I know but I
like the way cinnamon operates because
it does feel familiar Windows asked ya
for now there's really what it's about
maybe it's the paradigm it's that's what
I'm used to that's what I grew up with
that's what I learned on and so if I'm
going to use GUI at all I like that I
preferred I can find things I know where
they are so that's me why would someone
recommend it why would someone promote
it and I think that boils down to kind
of the exact flipside of that where we
live in a Windows world
sorry it's clean and simple okay we hate
to admit it as Linux fans but it's true
most people if you ask them what
operating system their computer has
they're going to say Microsoft Windows
so because of that as we're promoting
Linux as an alternative to any other
operating system and saying this is free
and they say well why would I want that
and you can start to share why they
might want that for the freedom for the
application suite for the fact that it's
low cost and you know it's upgradable
and and keeps going for them but the
fact is is that if the paradigm changes
it's too difficult you remember when 8.1
came out remember when Windows 8.1 came
out and Microsoft said oh we're going to
get do away with the Start menu and
we're going to throw out this stupid
Metro crap job what happened backlash
right so if I present to you Linux and I
say try this you gotta try it it's
awesome and
the paradigm is completely different
than I as a user the user that you're
trying to promote it to is going to have
a real hard time getting their head
around it and it just makes it
uncomfortable it makes them want to go
back so if I can make it feel a little
more comfortable for them then they're
more likely to get into it they're more
likely to try it out learn how it works
and then get to the point where now
they're no longer a noob they're no
longer a novice user they can start
playing around and trying the other
things chance when it gets exciting and
for myself from a practical standpoint
my kids I'm trying to get them into
Linux because they've been dealing with
Windows through the computers at school
and trying to switch them over from the
Windows interface using Linux you know
at a young age they're struggling with
that comparison so you know I to use a
you know a format like that where it
looks the same as Windows makes it much
easier for my kids to transitions like
the hey look why don't use the Linux
system and because there's dual boots on
my computer and so you know right yeah
not favors for the kids to use exactly
yeah I have to worry about the malware
getting in then that's drawing their
files that's exactly it there I mean our
oldest is now getting into more
internet-based stuff annoint use Linux
use let excuse yaks you know so very
cool for that reason I like the menu for
I think that's a good good reason there
you go there's my answer
so thank you very much for the question
perfectly valid and we appreciate it
[Music]
[Applause]
you
