welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number five 39 and
tonight oh good if your question
extravaganza we've been gathering up all
your questions putting them in a bag and
tonight we're we're dumping it on the
floor and reading every last one every
single one sokka we're gonna be looking
also at a device that we looked at a
1080p video player that connects to your
TV through HDMI optical or RCA we're
gonna answer your questions about that
we're gonna demonstrate it we're gonna
show you how it works get it a little
bit more in depth with that device
because there are a lot of questions
coming in on our youtube channel about
that one so stick around we've got lots
for you let's see in just a moment this
is category five technology TV
[Applause]
[Music]
our live recordings are trusted only to
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
cat 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 TV slash iai be welcome to category 5
technology TV so nice to have you here
this week it's episode number 539 and
over the past several weeks we have been
demonstrating different 4k cameras and
tonight is the last one
our final 4k camera and these are all
sub $2,000 cameras but tonight we're
looking at the HM no the Gy HM 170 all
these things to get through my head it's
a JVC camera it comes in a very less
retail ready pack right to the ones that
we've been looking at there it is much
larger box because it's a much larger
professional camera it's an G Y hm 170
something that you need to know about
the the HM 170 is that it is pretty much
the identical camera to the HM 200 the
difference mainly these days is the fact
that it does not have HD SDI output so
it is strictly HDMI output so and when I
say these days is because when the HM
170 first came out it did not include
the XLR mounts like the the inputs so it
actually has two XLR inputs it's a nice
pro camera but now it comes with the XLR
inputs as well so it's essentially the
same camera but it doesn't have the SDI
and it does not have the live web
streaming built into the camera through
a USB dongle that's not part of this
camera so here in the studio it's cool
for us because we're going HDMI output
into a mage well capture card anyways so
how we're doing it is an HDMI cable goes
from the hm 170 into the mage well
which is the ex I 100 de - HDMI
- 4k capture card because you've got to
have something to plug it in to if you
want to do live streaming so if you
think about you know maybe you want to
broadcast church services business
meetings maybe you want to do your own
video show on YouTube or wherever this
is a chance for you to see various 4k
cameras but from there it goes into a
Telestream Wirecast 8.2 we did find that
8.2 handles the 4k cameras very nicely
version 7.0 did not bring it in at the
full 38 40 by whatever it is the full 4k
resolution so 8.2 does it and works very
very well so why does that matter to us
here in the studio because with the 4k
camera we can do things like punch in
with zoom shots with Telestream Wirecast
I can I can hit a button that says
smooth and I can do a zoom like that I
can pan into Jeff I can pan over to
Sasha and get a nice smooth shot like
that so this is at 200% so I've zoomed
in 200% on that camera because it's 4k I
get really good quality in comparison to
like a 1080p camera so that's brilliant
so again this is an opportunity for you
if you are looking to broadcast to see
the quality difference between these
four cameras what have we looked at so
far we've looked at we've looked at a
Panasonic camera we've looked at two
Sony cameras and they're all 4k and
they're all sub 2000 dollars so it's
pretty amazing how the price point has
come down yeah
technology is just mind-bending these
days so we can do a lot with very little
budget and so if you're looking and you
have some questions make sure you get
them in to us and speaking of questions
tonight my favorites why is it your
favorite I guess I just love the viewers
yes a chance to interact and I have lots
of questions myself all the time just
running through my mind and I just love
to hear that other people who also so
when the questions come in you're like
oh yes I would like to know this as well
just so you know my name is Robbie I'm
and I'm Jeff and this is category 5
technology TV our website is category
five dot TV we've been doing this for
while we're in our 11th season there's a
lot of back episodes to enjoy 540 hours
worth of HD video well I guess not all
HD because we brought out the HD like
Season 5 6 or something like that but
you know what I mean there's a lot of
video content there it's all tech
centric we do have a Linux bias and when
we say that we mean we love open source
software we love finding alternatives so
that hey you don't have to go out and
spend a whole bunch of money if there's
a free alternative out there or
something that's available for you for a
more economical price time like the GNU
image manipulation program as opposed to
say Photoshop yes definitely a good
example so along that vein with the show
here tonight we're gonna be taking your
questions we've got a lot of them and
looking at those back episodes they're
available as BitTorrent files
yes you can download entire seasons of
category 5 TV so not to move on before I
touch on our torrent server we had a
issue this week and you may have heard
of BitTorrent and when you hear
BitTorrent you think maybe you think
illegal downloads right it's like it's
like Cody
like we're on Cody and Cody has become a
really great platform for both
legitimate broadcast like ours and
illegal content as well so they get the
rats so when you hear Cody you think oh
isn't that illegal well no no no Cody is
a brilliant player but people have been
using it for illegal purposes
same thing with BitTorrent it's a
brilliant mechanism for distributing
large amounts of data in our case
seasons upon seasons of video content
exactly but doing it you know people
people tend to use it for illegal
purposes as well as you can imagine so
yeah it's not illegal and with category
5 technology TV of course we own the
content and we want you to have it
part of our entire goal and mission here
is to create family-friendly content and
give it away it's yours take it share it
watch it on the big screen we don't need
you to pay us it's all free and
BitTorrent allows you to download
seasons 1
ten of category five technology TV plus
our other shows that's incredible it's
cool yeah webcam to 4k I know here we
are so this week as I mentioned we had
an issue yes my seed servers drive
failed no okay
I was able to recover it's cool now but
there were a few days where it was hit
or miss the file system got corrupted
because of a little error on my part in
the code that said when that happened my
my server for the torrents went down
right and that was a real wake-up call
for me when I said oh now there are
several seasons where there are zero
seeds cuz yours was the only mine was
the only one so people would download
from my server and then they would move
it onto an external hard drive and turn
off their seed or something like that
move the files on to another place and
not seed it so we've been encouraging
folks like yourself to download the show
using BitTorrent but then leave it
running seed it to other people and what
that means is that once you've
downloaded the entire season you your
computer or your device is now seeding
sharing with all the other people in the
future who want to download the season
so it helps us with the distribution
mechanism and it helps other viewers to
be able to find it it can but you can
set up things like like throttles ok so
you can tell it I only want it to use
this much of my bandwidth yeah
absolutely your program has access to
those kind of settings but it's cool
because BitTorrent if there are 10
different people with say season 5 of
category 5 technology TV and you go to
download it by BitTorrent it will
download parts of it from all 10
different people right I know one person
is sending you the season it's ten
different people breaking up the data so
you get it faster and those individual
seeds do not have to provision the
entire season it's it's broken up over
several people so it's a very cool
mechanism so check it out it's torrent
dot category five dot TV you can
download any of our seasons there it's
absolutely free it's absolutely
we legal and we authorize you to
download and share okay so we've got to
take a really quick break when we come
back we've got a viewer question
extravaganza don't go anywhere
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you you're a terrible actor
what does where acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap v dot TV slash dream host to
sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host welcome back to category five
technology TV it is viewer question
extravaganza so the whole point of
tonight is that we are going to be
answering viewer question you get a lot
of them dealing with viewer comments get
a lot of those it's pretty much the way
we do this show it's very interactive
and most nights we're just talking to
you but tonight you get to talk to us
nice can I just explain a little bit
about how this works because sometimes
we've got interviews we've got yes we
got all kinds of crazy stuff going on
here on the show and we don't always get
a chance to dive into the chatroom dive
into the mailbag dive into a youtube
comment yeah it's live at category 5 TV
yeah you can email you can send a snail
mail we've got an address right on our
website right at the bottom you can
actually send us a postcard this week to
send up some what you bought stamps
that's so
I know wow because look would you like a
roll of ten or a hundred only person who
email who sends me snail mail anymore is
Amazon and the bank you know yeah here's
your credit card bill Robbie for all the
Amazon purchases before we get into
viewer questions we've got to mention
Lubuntu 17 point oh four has reached
end-of-life that means if you're running
17 point oh four it's time to upgrade my
baby pull the plug you got to go to 17
point ten or if you want to hang tight
just a little bit longer
April is around the corner and then
we've got a new LTS long term support
release with boom - eighteen point oh
four come on April I know right
April is really close like 13 weeks boy
you know what I'm so glad that they use
years and months as the designations for
the because it sounds like I know my
numbers I know right know 18 point oh
four means 2018 April that's when it's
coming out it's always April in October
so that's how you figure out the Ubuntu
release cycle but the next one eighteen
point oh four is the next LTS shall we
get into some viewer questions and the
way this works is you go onto our
website category five dot TV click on
contact us you can submit your questions
for the show when we when we have a
break like this like tonight is awesome
because we don't have to do an interview
we don't have to do feature or a
particular review other than hey you're
watching us on a 4k camera from JVC
that's cool you look very good by the
follicles you can for okay but all you
have this this is you know all you have
to do send us your questions or comments
and this is that opportunity and we do
have your question extravaganza becomes
your shop that's it and we do our best
to help you out all right who's gonna
take the first one all right okay ternal
what do you guys think about banana pie
m3 I want to build a media server that
runs a boon to with Plex Media Server
and air sonic so JRE - War - Tomcat and
possibly Nass so what do you think about
that I
love that there are all different kinds
of SBC's out there single board
computers these are like raspberry pies
banana pies we've looked at the Odroid
xu4 in brief the banana pie m3 I just
want to bring it up on my computer like
just with a quick Google search banana -
pi org
how sweet is this so they've brought out
another board that is this one is much
more powerful what do we got we've got
emmc support two gigs of RAM we've got
gigabit ethernet so this is pretty
smashed and now it is USB - I believe
here's what I need to look at so we've
got an octa-core 1.8 gigahertz powerful
CPU I don't really have my it's so tough
to get your head around and I don't have
my head around G MEPs and the speed and
how a 1.8 gigahertz octa-core on the
banana pie compares to a Raspberry Pi
compares to an xu 4 it's a tough thing
but you know who really gets it who
there is somebody in the Odroid forum
named maverick and maverick gets it and
understands how this kind of stuff works
ok so I was looking at the banana pie
this m3 and it has a cortex a7 chip so
we know that it's 1.8 gigahertz but we
also know because of that chip it's 1.9
D MIPS per megahertz that's basically a
speed that can be compared to other
boards when we look at D Maps we know
that this is something we can compare
one to one to other boards as long as
we're looking at that because you can't
look at a two gigahertz computer and
think oh that's faster than a 1.8
gigahertz computer because it's probably
not true but most people would think
that yes because they're like oh the
bigger number must be faster right so
the banana pie m3 has 1.9 D MIPS per
megahertz per core and we know that it's
got eight cores nice so we think that
sounds great it's got you know it's an
octa-core it's brilliant right and it
does sound really smashing it sounds
pretty fantastic I love that it's got
emmc I also love that it does have
built-in Wi-Fi and Bluetooth although I
hate the the Wi-Fi and bluetooth on the
Raspberry Pi 3
why it's really poor we had that issue
with the PlayStation controllers or
sweet tooth yeah well the early version
the firmware did have some major issues
so updating the firmware did fix it
you've encountered that your Raspberry
Pi retropie it works really well now yes
but out of the box when it first came
out it was bad but the Wi-Fi I have it
directly one floor above where my router
is and I've got a very good router where
with my phone at g3 I can be anywhere in
the house and I've got a good signal I
lose signal up there and so watching a
youtube video even in 720p it will
buffer we need to turn it down sometimes
to 144p useless so saying that I don't
really like built-in Wi-Fi I think it's
you're spending money on it I like the
Odroid xu4 that it does not have those
things because I can always add a USB
version and I can add a better one so I
don't use that as a selling point what I
look at is the processor the RAM and in
this case we've got two gigs of LD LP
ddr3 RAM that's cool looking at the
processor though looking back at
Mavericks knowledge and understanding
howdy Maps per megahertz it allows us to
compare other processors the Raspberry
Pi 3 has a cortex a53 and that processor
per core is in fact faster than the
banana pie m3o and it's two point 3d
maps per megahertz so when you look at
that per megahertz it is faster than per
megahertz the banana pie right so then
we look at the Odroid xu4 and we say
holy cow it's 4.0 1d maps per second per
per megabyte megabit per second it's
saying 4.0 one on the xu4 versus 2.3 on
the Raspberry Pi 3 versus stepping it
down to 1.9 on the banana pi + 3 so we
know then per megahertz the banana pi/3
is the slowest correct of those 3 the
raspberry pi 3 per megahertz per core is
in fact faster now the banana pi has
more cores
so really it's tough to gauge
till we have all three of them all lined
up and do stuff with them right because
how do those extra cores impact the
performance probably a lot so even
though it is a little bit slower as far
as the per core speed goes it may be
perceptively faster because there are
more cores to work with so perhaps a
good idea for a future episode of a
compare and contrast yes I love the idea
what do you think so thinking back to
your question about you know using this
for things like Plex and and all that
kind stuff I really think that you want
to go where the power is right but
that's that raspberry pi 3 does do a
pretty good job for a plex media server
so I would think that the banana pie m3
would do very well and if in doubt and
you just don't understand the whole be
mips thing D Maps daemon see you don't
yeah you don't say it right I don't say
all right we don't even know what do you
like better raspberry banana personally
I'm what's your flavor I like if there
was a chocolate why go for the jamuna
it's tough it's really tough you really
got these are low-priced boards
absolutely buy a bunch of them yes leh
tinker that's what they call it Pinker
so we did the episode about the old road
and we talked about the Raspberry Pi
killer did we so could we turn killer
more people I see as far as names go I
kind of like the banana pie name better
because I feel like there's so many
things you could do with it like you
could do a banana split in which you
liked it a partition you could put it in
a little sling and have a banana hammock
like you just there's I said I didn't
get it she real I'm just more like about
the puniness of it all
thank you for the question
appreciate that and thanks also against
a maverick and and if you want to chat
with metric or other people you know get
into the forums for these boards I'm
speaking particularly of the Odroid xu4
forum because maverick really helped me
to kind of at least get my head around
it a little bit so that I could
understand why the xu4 is in fact a lot
faster than the pi3 right so so I say
that maybe the xu4 is gonna be a lot
more powerful so maybe that's the one
you want to try and it is only fifty
four dollars regardless of what YouTube
says it is it is only fifty four dollars
it's not a thousand dollars now speaking
of the aw dried we did have a question
from Nigel George hi Nigel George says
hi I saw the video about the Odroid xu4
q yeah and was quite impressed I'm
tempted to use one for a to hard drive
Nash for Plex yeah but you reference
that you use a fifteen volt supply in
the video yet the website only lists
five hour 5 volts 6 amps as their
maximum yeah can you help you understand
the power requirements for such a system
as demonstrate I'm gonna see if I can
actually do I have it with me yeah I
know Robert just walked off set I just
walked off set and left it all to Jeff
and that's okay I don't have the power
supply handy but I do have the Odroid
xu4 in the chassis that we built it in
ok so when I did that demonstration I
want to show you here is the Odroid xu4
okay that's the board we showed you that
on on a previous episode and you'll
notice that the power input for that is
completely blocked off by the case
that's because the case actually powers
the Odroid xu4 right that said it also
powers two hard drives a 3-inch screen
and a backplane and a fan right so
that's where the higher so it's the case
itself that will give you the 15 volts
no it's the case that needs it right
right that's where you that's where the
input is so you plug in the 15 volt
cable there and it powers all this stuff
however if you are only going to be
working with an X you for in a stand
xu4 case which looks more like a
Raspberry Pi and in that regard because
it's just a tiny SPC then you would use
the 5 volt input right and that's just 5
volts so there you have it so that you
know I hope that explains a little bit
about the differentiation again it falls
down to this is the case that we chose
to build it in the case needs more power
because it's got a bunch of more stuff
and that's what I was gonna say I've
noticed ever since we've done that
episode that many people seem to confuse
the case with the actual with the
circuit I know if you're watching this
and you're like oh my gosh
listen not so much that is the case the
board itself is small a little even
reviewed it did another comparison a few
weeks ago it has a slightly smaller
footprint than the Raspberry Pi except
for the heatsink fins which do sit on
the q model right yeah now the non Q
model has a little low low profile yeah
so really the unit itself is quite small
do not get confused by the big case
because it needs to fit those knives
yeah so all right
that's Cydia good times do we have any
more questions
Oh water - who's taking it you ok Sasha
ok all right so Brian with age Brian
Brian Brian with age hey Brian hi Robby
I'm so happy to share this with you
earlier this year we spent part of our
holidays in Trinidad nice oh very warm
could you bring me some tamarind my
friend what best sauce best sauce not
the best sauce also sorry well we were
there we met a young girl who was
hearing impaired she's been using
hearing aids but what they were in need
of repair and her family could not
afford to repair or get her new hearing
aids Wow so I remembered the ear buds
from your show and suggested that we try
them long story short she now has a pair
of these ear buds thanks and my
brother-in-law and his wife and they're
working fantastic thank you to both
yourself and Jeff for highlighting this
product
your program so that was the jeebies
earbuds let's get on to our website
category five dot TV and i'll show you
our website and how it's really cool if
you want to find stuff on our website
just hit Search oh nice shot there Jeffy
is your face just your face it changes
every four minutes there's one cool
feature of our website I think I say
don't pick your nose on the air well the
studio just to let us know it's about to
be updated about to be updated you know
it's like okay now when I click on
search up at the top did you see how I
did that there's a little search icon
now if I do a search for Chubby's and
hearing aid let's see if that brings it
up for us it's really great search
powered by algo Leah and algo Leah does
a phenomenal job of parsing all of the
data of our many many years of episodes
now our internet connection here is a
little slow so Nora you know our website
itself does not run slowly for for
general users I think it's just that we
really wanted to see that that image for
a little while there Jeff yeah I was
really waiting for you to switch the
screen in I may have lost my connection
here
LTE internet for broadcasting can be
really rough yes and it is yeah
let's see oh it just it just skipped too
you're you're not connected all right
let's try that again now we're connected
okay there we go the first result is amp
sound the Bluetooth earbuds that help
you hear better and I love japaese
product line we've looked at their stuff
and what's cool about the amp sound is
that it is their Bluetooth earbuds for
listening to music for taking phone
calls with your phone those kinds of
things but it also enhances your hearing
yes I love it so and they also came with
the charge pack yeah Jimmy's is
notorious for that
where
when you put them in their case they're
charging yeah I still have them sitting
at home use them regularly yeah it's
awesome and that was that was a while
ago very cool and I want to say thank
you 64 464 yeah but just get on to our
website if you want to learn more about
those the neat thing about it hearing
aids are very expensive and here you
know that's that's maybe the the story
here is that this is a case where these
are very economical in comparison
they're there borderline cheap yeah as
far as that goes
cost wise so quality wise definitely not
they're excellent but I I really
appreciate you sharing that story with
us that's cool how you know something
that we reviewed way back 464 was the
episode so we're going back to 2016
August and that's still having an impact
today in Trinidad of all places so thank
you very much for sharing that's great
Jeff you want to take the next one for
us sure okay Janet 757 redneck short one
all right how can I tell what file
system my Linux distro uses for example
if it's ext4 or ext3 so at this I would
presume this is for a an already
installed Linux distro so what I'm gonna
do is you know quick and simple cheap
and dirty way I'm gonna get into our
terminal and I love using the Linux
terminal there is a command called LS BK
LS or BLK so LS block basically and when
you type that it shows you all of your
hard drives and peripherals that are
storage devices and you'll notice that
it doesn't tell you much about them
other than I can see I'm using an l vm
and and so forth and I can see the
designation like s da v s da - I can see
that that's my swap and those kinds of
things what's nice about LS blk is that
you can give it command-line options
such as - F for filesystem and when you
do that all of a sudden you get an
Enhanced Edition that shows the FS type
and so we can see now our SD a 5 is an L
VM and it has ext for and I've got an SD
a 1 with ext 2 and I can also see the
mount points so that's my slash
see that my main drive is ext4 so that's
cool
thank you for the question I hope you
guys can see that okay if not because it
is pretty tiny on your screen just bring
up your terminal on Linux and type LS
blk space - f that'll answer your
question thank you so for simple
Sasha yes are you going out of order
because the old droid question was
coming up later but we were right on
topic so I'm like oh there you go yeah
yeah no that's great
no I just was like who's next what I
don't even know I don't know these
things if you don't tell me should we go
back to the beginning no just keep going
here we go from old salts hey old salt I
told you I got a new notebook well it's
an Acer Aspire e15 5-5 575 it's a bunch
of numbers anyways we got that much
great so it has an Intel Core i3 - 7100
you which is 2.4 gigahertz 3 megabytes 3
L or l3 the cache yes explain the l3
cache not everybody knows I'll figure
you explain it no yeah because I don't
put me on the spot like your processor
has a cache so that when it's doing
stuff it can it can store it temporarily
in in a space right and then do more
operations faster so then there's more
old so upgrade it to a 12 gigabyte ddr4
Ram ok
as far as I know this thing should be
pretty fast but it's not ok so let's
just summarize here for those who are
going what are all these numbers ok
we've got a laptop that is an i3 so it's
a fairly modern Intel processor that's
pretty decent it's it's not super super
super it doesn't have hyper threading
and virtualization technology but it's a
good laptop and he's added 12 gigabytes
of RAM so that should be pretty good but
it's still slower than a slug going
across hot pavement how was it before
you upgrade at the ramp my first thought
is what
Ram okay so the RAM is the 12 gigabytes
DV is the size of it doesn't tell us
anything about the performance of it oh
right okay so no matter what I have
tried I can't seem to get any speed out
of it I've even formatted and
reinstalled the OS without any increase
in performance yes
loading a program can take it's variable
like one second to three minutes ok so
right now I'm running Windows 10 because
it will not read any Linux I try to
install any suggestions I'm at a loss my
first thought is that maybe maybe maybe
we've got some RAM issues with that
computer and that would be my thought
even if you hadn't upgraded the RAM
what I want you to try old salt is grab
what's called mem test 86 plus and I
believe that it comes with most Linux
distros when you boot the disk but let's
do a quick search any six plus live CD
that's what I want okay
mem test 86 dot-com slash download what
does this tell us purchase no we don't
want to do that for free software
windows downloads Linux Mac downloads
image for creating a bootable CD no that
sounds all did say running on Windows 10
so well he's running Windows 10 because
he's tried to install Linux and it's
having trouble right so is it a linux
problem no probably not but is it a
hardware problem yeah quite likely yeah
and Windows may just not be exploiting
that problem where Linux for some reason
or another is so with mem test 86 plus
you build the the live ISO onto a USB
flash drive I would suggest using etcher
etcher is a tool that allows you to burn
that iso file to a USB flash drive and
boot from that USB flash drive and let
it run for three or four iterations it
will probably take overnight so started
at 6:00 p.m. let it run until you get up
in the morning and see if it tells you
anything about your ram being
problematic right because if that Ram
and maybe it's the RAM that you put in
maybe it's not compatible for some
reason maybe there's a problem with it
mem test 86 plus will tell you well on
that I mean as sasha was reading this I
was thinking the exact same thing a lot
of people when they buy the RAM they
don't actually look at the speed of it
there's like all the Duty for well true
yeah and and if you don't get the right
speed you could have problems just like
this or if they're not if you've got two
modules and they're different speeds
between them and just a quick mention
the foo mentions in the chatroom that
the that particular i3 does have the
virtualization technology just to
correct myself oh thank you good to know
yeah but one of the other things that
I'm noticing about this is that it will
not even read the Linux I'm assuming
it's from a disk I'm guessing but it's
running Windows 10 because it will not
read my Linux when I try to install so
is that an ISO issue possibly like if
maybe it's on a USB and the ISO is not
running properly that could be a that's
good good point Jeff is that there's a
couple issues in it could be a bad USB
Drive and you maybe you keep flashing to
the same USB Drive if you checked your
boot sequence just to make sure that
wherever you're getting your lytx from
that your boot sequence pays for that
before load in the OS check that - yeah
but I think he's gotten that far because
he is mentioning that it's slow yeah and
he's getting to loading applications and
it's slow yeah so old salt I hope that
we've hit on some stuff that helps
I would suggest checking the memory to
try a different USB flash drive as Jeff
suggests maybe that flash drive is
problematic and maybe that's part of the
problem it could be so you're installing
Linux from a damaged flash drive yeah I
mean also the fact that it's an you've
purchased this new I'm gonna assume by
new you mean still under the warranty
period so maybe there's just something
wonky with the system itself and you
need to get it replaced I don't know I
mean many tests 86 will tell you yeah
about the RAM right and if and he put
the RAM in so we know that that is not
the stock Ram that came with it
correct so we already can you know if we
if if it is the RAM put back in the
original Ram and see if that fixes it
and if it does then you
that it's bat Ram right hmm or hippies
all around
could be good luck yeah good luck lots
of variables there my friend let us know
what you find out yes though if this I
love to know because it's good for us to
report I could say hey remember we
talked about old salt we fixed it for
you fix I hope to hear that yeah good
luck my friend
Sachin okay you have another one for us
sure the Albuquerque turkey Happy New
Year Ravi and family and category-five
crew cheers you too man I've been
struggling with a new Roku gizmo for
months and I'm in the midst of the
content of the continuing struggle they
asked me to try some oh is this gonna be
around I guess is this gonna turn into a
wrap oh so fine it's not like today's a
holiday or anything okay so this must
have been written on January 1st
connected to a TV I don't intend to use
the new Roku with it actually stirred it
up and seems to operate getting it out
of 720p mode and into 1080p mode is what
I've been struggling with mostly so it
came up on my older TV which is 720 only
I gathered all the data and Roku wizard
to ask all the data were cool the roku
wizards asked for and then tested a few
streams same stuff I use on my older
Roku gizmos and it was just fine then I
noticed cat 5 on my Roku home screen
brought I brought up the 27 of December
yes we're on roku if you have a Roku
quick search for category 5 so I brought
up the 27th of December episode ok Wow
I always watching my computer monitor
but on roku it looks great nice yes I'm
amazed I wonder what it might look like
on my other TV I wondered how that
Panasonic 4k camera with the little leek
a lens like I like what I say any man
could make such a difference
lishka then I realized the watch now
stream might not be 1080p my computer
monitor is
but the video is less than half the
screen and you never you never know when
there's an opportunity to chime in on
the chatroom
I have no idea whether Roku somehow
knows what my output device is capable
of might they just adjust the download
speed automatically if so do I see why
do I see such a fantastic high
resolution hmm I could have seen the
individual hairs on your head well I
didn't but in theory I could have I
think get out of here you jerk all that
to say this has really just come down to
why is one TV different than the other
and roku versus web and and and and I
heard something there about when you've
watched it on roku it was high-res does
it detect system and yes you've heard us
say on the show HLS you've heard that a
couple times what it is is it's called
an adaptive bitrate so as you connect
two different devices with different
internet connections and if whatever is
supported HLS will stream to you the
best possible quality
now our roku channel unlike our now our
plex channel we did upgrade it to HLS as
well but the old version of Plex you had
to select whether it be HD or SD and it
is what it is with Roku it will give you
the adaptive bitrate the best possible
quality that your system is capable of
so if you have a 1080p TV with a good
internet connection it will give you a
full 1080p source and it's automatic if
you plug it into a 720p TV it will
automatically scale down to the 720p
source so that you're actually
downloading from our server or streaming
from our server the 720p file and then
the instant you switch over to a 1080p
camera TV it will automatically stream
the 1080p everything yeah or if your
internet goes slow it will scale down to
320 P automatically and this happens on
the fly that's part of our roku channel
it's a cool feature now okay so when it
comes to the roku because i have a
reactor at home i wanted to test
just how adaptive is this yeah and we
have a receiver at home for our sound
system to run through we could run our
nice on all of our cables into it and
then everything attached the TV it
crapped out on us
your receiver yes so no audio no no
audio
nice so we've moved it from that but it
was only 720p and we moved directly now
it's your receiver it was going through
the receiver and the receiver was 720p
so it was downscaling that's right moved
it into the back of our TV now through
1080p interested in you had a similar
issue and just switching the cables I'm
going wow it's the same Roku device yeah
it's the same TV but because we're not
bypassing the 720 when you go up to that
1080 it really does make a difference do
you remember when I came over to help
set up the gaming system yes her gaming
system was set up for 4k output but it
was going through the receiver and we
didn't realize but it was plugged into
do you remember I can't remember what
was DVD DVD CD and DVD is 480p exactly
so it was down scaling to 480p so that
we get from DVD and put over to 4k input
and bam yeah so that's like when it's
going through other devices it has an
impact on the quality because it will
detect the resolution of those devices
and this computer why is the icon this
big we've got to take a really quick
break and when we come back we've got
more of your viewer questions comments
to ground
you've got mad skills
now Honam learn new skills or improve
your existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from lynda.com
through our special link at cat 5 dot TV
slash Linda learned software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today
to help you achieve your professional
goals join today and start learning
we'll give you this chance to try it
absolutely free with unlimited access to
all of the courses sign up now for free
cat 5 dot TV slash Linda welcome back
this is category five technology TV and
it's episode number five thirty nine our
viewer question extravaganza if you
haven't had a chance to get your
questions in head on over to our website
category five dot TV and click on
contact us that's how you do it Jeff
you've got more for me buddy I do okay
so a while ago we review the a GP tech
mini HD media player yes define it at
cat five dot TV slash a GP tech DJ not
te CH okay so we had a couple of
comments questions about it so I'm gonna
run through a few of them quickly feel
that very cool very cool indeed it's
cold cuz it's got a metal body very cool
throwing that out there okay what's our
what's right so this is a cool device
check out that video again go on to our
website category five TV do a search for
AGP Tek and that will bring up that or
go to cat five TV slash AGP Tech alright
so Edward hey Edward how long does it
take for the devices to boot to the home
screen once powered on there's only one
way to answer that powered on I can't
give a smart-aleck response
for some reason it matters to a lot of
folks including Edward and that's valid
I guess how long does this device take
the boot up
that's the question so if I switch over
to this source here you see nothing
because I haven't got it plugged in so
that's exactly what I'm gonna do I'm
gonna plug in HDMI here to our broadcast
rig and you see that the only other
cable that I have is power the which
comes with the AGP tech device so I'm
gonna switch screens there I'm gonna
tell you as soon as I plug it in are you
ready three two one plugged and it's in
and boot up time is seconds yeah yeah I
think four seconds yeah yeah
so very very quick mm-hmm thanks for the
very very random question joven 2040 hey
yeah has a comment it's not compatible
to all televisions not 720p TVs
apparently in fact it is yeah but you do
see here's the thing if you configure it
to be 1080p or 1080i and then unplug it
and plug it into a 720p TV that makes
sense it's not gonna work because it's
running in 1080p and your computer your
TV's not going to be able to handle it
so first of all the best thing to do is
plug it into a 1080p computer or screen
of some sort TV going to setting is
sorry quick questions the 1080p is that
the default setting no I you know I
can't recall because I've messed with it
so much I think the 720p was the default
but it's possible I guess I mean who
really you know there's no just thinking
if your TVs if you're trying to load it
if you if that's the first device you
plug it yes yeah yeah so if you're not
able to do it plugging it into a 720p TV
then this would probably be why so you
go down to video output mode using and
I'm just using a wireless controller
that comes with it okay and and
here you'll see that it's got pal ntsc
and then we've got 720p at 60 Hertz 720p
at 50 Hertz so that would be like the UK
the United States and Canada UK at 1080p
and 1080p for United States and Canada
at 60 Hertz that has to do with the
power rating of our of our power so
that's why PB P are different spec what
I want is that's that's the because it's
got optical output it's got its got the
RCA output so and then it's got HDMI now
we're using HDMI so I want to actually
scroll down to the HDMI output options
currently I've got it set to 60 Hertz at
720p and I can go up to 1080 P 24 50 or
60 Hertz so the options are there but if
you have it currently set to 1080p 60
Hertz and you plug it into a 720p 60
Hertz TV or 50 Hertz TV it's not gonna
work so you need to first configure that
on it probably a 1080p TV and then plug
it into that lesser device that would
fix it for you okay
so another question from Santiago
Benitez hey Santiago says yes yes nailed
it will it play the latest h.265
file-type will it play H dot 264 that
you're prepared well this is my little
micro SD 2 SD card adapter I'm gonna
just plug in my SD card here which just
goes into the side and boom and then on
my navigation here I'm going to go back
to the main menu and you'll notice that
if I go into movie and then smart card
and then into that drive I have three
files my original file I've got a short
one for loop and h.265 in three two one
no unfortunately h.265 is as we see here
not supported h.264 though brilliant
well let's go yeah no could that just be
a simple software update in the future
or I don't know if the company ever
brings out firmware updates maybe but
h.265 would do better with a hardware
coder so right I think it would probably
be a no-go for h.265 that said much of
our content is h.264 if that works for
you great now we know the answer cool
next that's it for the AGP questions
that's it there's more did you notice I
got other files what do you got okay so
vanessa has a question hi Vanessa I knew
you had a question for me ordered one
and wants to know how do you make the
film loop I press the loop button but a
Red Cross shows and then it plays the
film once and then it says it can't play
the file basically it's just not looping
that's the main thing and Vanessa needs
it for an art exhibition oh we've got to
get this thing loopy let's get this loop
before you Vinnie alright let's jump
over here notice once again I am
prepared and I think what's happening so
you have this great remote control and
on this button is the repeat but on
there is a button called repeat and when
I push it I think that's what you're
seeing right see that oh well I'm
pushing repeat and it's not it's not
working and then I'm gonna push okay to
play and it's just going to play once
and then halt so it's just the
methodology behind it
push ok first to play the video Sasha
back on Episode five time you'll
remember now was at this point can you
guys hear me okay over that you know oh
and my suggestion I can write it down
turn it down okay don't worry about that
can't play that's cuz it jumped over to
the h.265 okay it's adding a sound back
on Episode five ten you'll remember was
asking about what she should do for
display at the web so now that it's my
suggestion now I push that button
Sasha back on episode push it again
you'll remember push it again white each
one that means this one video repeatedly
so let's see that it happens this is a
ten-second file that I created just for
you Vanessa
let's let apply be steampunked out and
it'll be amazing but really when it
comes to your special day I'm like just
simplify been there done that I've
filmed some weddings and one of the big
maybe you cannot count I was playing the
original file remember he was asking
about repeat once repeat we're on
display every week and my suggestion was
you know Sasha was asking about it what
she doesn't do it more than what not for
a display away and my suggestion was you
know 10 seconds of my life just keep
playing over and over and over again so
if you're gonna loop the videos and
given that it is for an art exhibit you
may want to just if you saw there was a
little bit of a flash the way that it
reset have your video fade out and fade
in for a nice smooth transition yeah
that may help ya just so it looks more
polished something to think about right
but it does work so the elastic you know
so just don't do it on the menu do it on
the video itself would it be
advantageous to rip DVD's at a higher
res or will it show 1080 automatically
once you plug it in asks Kristine well
if it is a higher resolution file
Kristine then the device is going to
have to downscale that's going to take
more processor power and therefore it's
more likely to have something like
buffering or skipping or mouths being
out of sync
it can happen and that's not the fault
of this device that's just the nature of
of players in general so because we know
it's a 1080p device I would say just rip
too directly to 1080p that would be
perfect if you go any higher than that
then you run the risk of hey it's down
sampling from a 4k file I don't have a
4k file to test with unfortunately
tonight was not prepared and but that's
what I would do I would stick with 1080p
okay
all right it feels like you know I know
that there are more questions I know but
it feels like with the time that it is
that we really have to pay a little bit
of homage to our biggest fans on YouTube
biggest pants YouTube we know there are
biggest fans because they thank you for
your comments indeed horst slammer says
20 times the size of a Raspberry Pi 3
dot dot dot go home carrot carrot love
those carrots so I'm I'm a little bit
off on my size and currency measurements
is sice a measurement of size horas ice
a currency nobody knows ok see Wozniak
says a real Raspberry Pi killer in terms
of spec over it price will be orange pie
but it's still the fact that it's lag of
support that makes them die of really
quickly thank you for the comments that
was Google Translate Timah town Unga
what an annoying video stereotypes women
factually incorrect and blatant lies if
you know what you are talking about
stupid hype music dot dot dot dot just
vomit vomit vomit rename the video eight
ways to kill a human soul you know I
kind of feel like you missed the point I
give up
that's it I'm quitting YouTube gender
stereotypes of women how that was the
show where we dressed really dress you
up like a Barbie doll oh that's right I
remember now nothing yes the show you're
just bringing us like cookies and
everything and sweeping behind us and
serious deca mess paper we're under bus
Braham de Klerk says what kind of cringy
video is this gave me the creeps
sorry about your creeps there buddy
thank you for to all of our biggest fans
on YouTube we appreciate you taking the
time to comment and we know that you do
it with the best intent because you love
us and we love you too
vomit vomit except eight ways to kill
the human soul that's next
a five that's awesome alright it's all
you buddy
it's all me right here are the stories
recovering this week in the category 5
TV newsroom oneplus has admitted that
the clipboard app and a beta build of
its Android OS was beaming back mistery
data to a cloud service in China
officials of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation are continuing to voice
their displeasure with Apple's approach
to iPhone security with one FBI official
reportedly calling the company jerks and
an evil genius
Tesla's solar roof tiles are going ahead
with installations following their staff
only trial period and Apple is handing
off Chinese iCloud iCloud operations to
a local firm in February these stories
are coming right up
don't go anywhere whether you shop on
ThinkGeek gearbest B&amp;H photo video eBay
or Amazon or even if you want a free
trial of audible you'll find the best
deals and support the shows we produce
by simply visiting the shopping sites
you already frequent by using the links
on our website visit category 5 TV slash
partners for the full and ever-growing
list and help us create more free
content like this show thank you for
shopping with our partners and thank you
for watching
this is the category 5 TV newsroom
covering the week's top tech stories
with a slight linux bias I'm Sacha
Rickman and here the top stories were
following this week someone calling
themselves v1 NC running the latest test
version of oneplus Osorio based
operating system revealed in its Support
Forums that unusual activity from the
built-in clipboard manager had been
detected by their firewall of a firewall
tool upon closer inspection it was found
that the app had been transmitting
information to a block of IP addresses
registered to Ali Baba the Chinese
e-commerce and cloud hosting Giants
while extra logging and telemetry are to
be expected from beta software the fact
that data was being siphoned off without
a warning from clipboard managed the
clipboard manager has raised eyebrows
leading some to fear that their
copy/paste actions were being snooped on
and to question the privacy protections
on their oneplus handsets a rep for
oneplus told Android police our 1 plus
beta program is designed to test new
features with a selection of of our
community this particular feature was
intended for hydrogen OS our operating
system for the China market we will be
updating our global oxygen OS beta to
remove this feature this should not come
as much of a shock to those who follow
the China based oneplus in October last
year researchers discovered that oneplus
handsets were collecting unusually
detailed reports on user activities
though the manufacturer said at the time
that it was only ordering the data for
internal analytics
one month later however it was
discovered that some iPhones had been
shipped with a Developer Kit left active
resulting in phone sporting a hidden
backdoor today's desktop and mobile
operating systems are gung-ho and
phoning home information about their
users with Microsoft catching flack for
Windows 10 telemetry in particular
oneplus later expanded on their response
saying the experimental hydrogen OS
feature is designed
typically for the China Chinese market
we're a unique competitive situation
between two major web server service
providers had led some ecommerce web
links being blocked a workaround
developed by one of the parties involved
sending a token so link sharing would
function fully we were testing a similar
feature in the hydrogen OS beta can I
just say yes when you are found out that
there is something sending private
information to servers in China the best
answer is probably not
oh that feature is for the Chinese
market right right oh yeah the spying on
you
that's for Chinese merchants yeah yeah
so does that mean there's two versions
they've got like a an international
version plus Chinese China great feature
included with that one not so much
and a cinematic China well you would
think yeah clipboard is one of those
things what do you use your clipboard
for I often maybe this is a bad thing if
you're gonna say what I'm gonna say why
are you about to say I will email myself
private stuff because I can't be
bothered to type it into my phone so
I'll email it copy it to my clipboard
and then paste it into whatever form I
was supposed to be using me too okay go
team
I don't know that I really wanted to
high-five I can't high-five that one
imagine though if you were because I use
massively long ridiculous passwords so
to type it in on my phone would be
stupid maybe I need to look at an app
that would help me with that kind of
thing because what if my clipboard was
being monitored and sent to some Chinese
server using China as the example
because it's reality
but it could be anywhere that's why I
used Ashley and for all my passwords and
it syncs across platforms I use LastPass
and I could put it on my phone even just
having the fact that the developer
version was being sent out with that bad
hidden backdoor that makes me think ok
well that could actually theoretically
happen to any you gotta disclose this
though I mean it sure it's a cop-out
that's a better version it's a developer
version you guys are our betta testers
you're trying out pre-release software
well let's disclose the fact that by the
way if you run this all your private
stuff is not private that's important
don't don't tell us that after the fact
but you know who's great at keeping
things private hmmm repeatedly made it
more difficult to access data on
encrypted iPhones making Apple customers
safer from hackers but also preventing
the FBI from breaking into phones used
by suspected criminals FBI forensics
expert Steven flatly posed the question
last last week at what point is it just
trying to one-up things and at what
point is it trying to thwart law
enforcement
he also said Apple is pretty good at
evil genius stuff and described Apple as
jerks with regard to its approach to
iPhone security for example flatly
complained that Apple recently made
password guesses slower changing the
hash iterations from ten thousand to ten
million that means he explained that
password attempts speed went from 45
passwords a second to 1 every 18 seconds
referring to the difficulty of cracking
a password using the brute force method
in which every possible permutation is
tried there are tools that can input
thousands of passwords in a very short
period of time but if the attempts per
minute are limited it becomes much
harder and slower to crack well Apple
has assisted the FBI in some cases the
company has held firm in its stance that
strong encryption is vital for keeping
its customers safe flat Lee's comments
came one day after FBI director
Christopher ray called phone encryption
and urgent public safety issues saying
in fiscal year 2017 we were unable to
access the contents of 7775 devices
using appropriate and available
technical tools even though we had the
legal authority to do so
he went on to explain each one of those
nearly 7800 devices is tied to a
specific subject a specific defendant a
specific victim a specific threat he
said the problem makes it harder for the
FBI and investigations related to human
trafficking counterterrorism
counterintelligence gangs organized
crime and child exploitation rousers
valid points reality but this is the FBI
M so take a different spin here though
take a different look at this and say
you guys are making it so secure that we
can't access your private data and it
goes back to private data shouldn't your
private data be private private I don't
like that bad people are using good
services any more than the next person
but bad people are gonna do bad things
so if the FBI were to actually have a
court order right then that would be a
different situation right
what is unencrypted devices what it has
done in this like they've had quarters
in the past and it's become a legal
battle apples fought back and that's
where a lot of this really came to a
head on how secure Apple's encryption
was I mean I think it was like 2015 that
this is really a big issue and and it
became a challenge in the courts so
here's here's what I find interesting
about this story we've we've come into a
post-snowden area era where it's been
revealed that hey big brother really is
watching you in ways that you could
never imagine
and so you've got everybody screaming
about it going you can't do that and now
you've everybody has stepped up their
encryption game they've made things more
secure and you've got law enforcement
going hey now we can't get in well this
is what happens when you go too far and
I'm not saying was the FBI's issue but
are you thinking that it's their fault
no no no let's feel like we need
encryption no it's it's a whole swinging
pendulum so if too much happens to a
certain
topic then people start swinging the
pendulum the other way and going you we
need to correct this and we've gone so
far in the area that the ability for law
enforcement to do their job
appropriately and in appropriate
circumstances is hindered in certain
ways now from personal opinion from some
of the stuff that I've read online and I
don't just read the basic frontline news
I do dig in further there's a lot of
cases where I think the police are
taking or the FBI sorry are taking the
easy way out going we just need into
this phone no you can get that
information through other means there's
other ways to get it in truth to be
honest with you the encryption keeps
good people safe from being spied upon
sure yes if I had people right there is
more good than bad so why are they
fear-mongering saying it's helping these
criminals with their crimes when really
it's more helping the masses of people
who aren't criminals keep from being
exploited so then to wrap up the story
should the question become should and
this is a question for you viewers
should the FBI and other agencies of
governing bodies that are in authority
should they have backdoor access to that
data
right good question Tesla began
manufacturing solar tiles for solar roof
installations in December at the Buffalo
New York factory that it acquired when
it purchased Solar City in 2016 the
electric vehicle and energy company said
it will start installing the tiles on
the homes of reservation holders
immediately up until now Tesla's solar
roof installations have only been
available for their employees in an
email Tesla said that it had completed
its pilot installation program which
helped to validate reliability and
weatherization testing Tesla opened up
reservations to the general public last
May which required a one thousand dollar
deposit the company says it will survey
design and identify permits permit
issues for each customer individually
thus roof costs are going to vie
very the idea behind the solar roof was
to offer a visually attractive
alternative to solar panels Tesla
sighted homes that are part of the
homeowners association which might not
be able to put solar panels on due to
aesthetic restrictions but the company
also stressed that their product would
make sense for non-restricted homeowners
as well particularly due to the superior
durability and attractive payback period
that an inactive regular roof doesn't
have Tesla plans to work both of the
solar roof markets though saying that
they started making traditional solar
panels at the buffalo factory last
summer and have so far hired 500 people
to keep the process moving I love the
idea of having solar panel tiles I love
it I bet you that they're not super
affordable for me but great actually if
I recall correctly when Tesla first
announced that they had them they said
it would be about the same price as
redoing your roof or slightly cheaper
right except that's changed it's light
right because actually ten times that
but by papapapa by centering you maybe
will get longer life out of them but
that's yet to be discovered yes it's a
claim that we're waiting to find out
because it hasn't been in testing long
enough to know will these last longer
than traditional shingles or what I want
to know is how is this gonna play and
with Canada and extreme weather
situations sure yeah doing it up here
just yet I would honestly say remember
how that in Toronto they're doing the
Google neighborhood is it I think that
they should probably put these solar
tiles although there's a flat row not in
this community in my mind they're like
mushrooms in extreme climates I'd like
to see it maybe test in either Russia
extreme climates like Toronto Chinese
iCloud customers have been notified that
Apple will transfer operations of its
cloud storage services to the local firm
Gesu on the cloud big data g CBD
starting next month
Apple announced the partnership with G
CBD last year in claims the new iCloud
operations will help the company comply
with Chinese regulations as of February
28th Apple will start the transfer of
Chinese iCloud data to its new data
center in Gesu where it will be managed
by GC BD this means that the fizzle
physical location of the Chinese iCloud
customer's data will change but
customers shouldn't see any differences
on their end of their iCloud accounts in
Apple's message sent to mainland Chinese
customers the company says the new
operations setup will enable us to
continue improving the speed and
reliability of iCloud and to comply with
the Chinese regulations Chinese
customers may be concerned about the
safety of their photos documents and
other iCloud data because gcpd is owned
by Gesu provincial governments apple's
partnership with Jie CBD is also another
means for China's governments to control
data accessible within its territory
customers are urged to consider the new
terms and conditions of iCloud operated
by GC BD and customers who are not
comfortable with Jie CBD partnerships
can terminate their accounts so China is
now just that rooms going nuts
so Jeff and I are the ones over here
doing this so China is just upping the
ante and controlling more information in
the fact that now Apple is giving in to
China's control yes and say because
otherwise whatsapp what's China going to
do but pull Apple products from that
exactly that's just a little market in
China slightly so it's just kind of the
cost of progress in the facts that we
need but by we I am NOT Apple but Apple
needs to stay in China so like anyone
they want to be everywhere right
everywhere and China is a massive
massive market so there's no you know if
the government says bend over you say
okay here we go okay so but take for
instance this show
we have a lot of viewers in China so say
they said hey look in order to play on
web you need to acknowledge that we're
being viewed in China or else you can't
be played would we not say hey you can
watch us for all over the world maybe
it's a little different though when they
say okay but you have to also give us
all of your users personal information
that you yes yeah I get that but I mean
I'm scaling it down we would say hey
that like in order to stay in the market
this is a little thing and an apple from
a business standpoint is probably
looking at it going
same deal but from the consumer end are
they is this a little thing to them know
if you're watching in China or any of
the affected areas then please do
comment and let us know I know it's
difficult for you to do so because our
YouTube channels blocked category 5 TV
is open to mainland China so we do have
colocation there so that you can
actually tune in and so you can comment
there on our website or send us an email
live at category 5 TV that'd be kind of
cool to hear from you how it affects you
awesome
big thanks to Roy W Nash and our
community of yours for submitting
stories to us this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our website from the
category-five TV newsroom I am Sasha
rickman Sasha
well done thank you my friend oh thank
you thank you and can you believe that
that's all the time that we have I mean
it just flies by your question
extravaganza is like this I hope that
we've answered some questions tonight I
would love for you to get onto our
website category 5 TV submit yours
comment below send us emails get your
questions in your comments and see if
you make it onto the air and also you
can join our live chat while we're doing
our live show tonight the chat room is
gone nuts with some of these topics it's
been really really entertaining I almost
don't want to do the show I read the
news and then I have to go back in the
chatroom and see everything I've missed
yes yeah
I can't be in the chat room yeah and if
you want to know what those live
discussions are like because you may be
watching this on demand you may be
watching this on cable TV you can go to
our website category 5 TV I always
mention the episode number this is
episode 539 so go to episode number 539
and click the button that says chat logs
and actually read back to the old like
what what was said during the live show
it's slightly embarrassing cause more
often than not it's me talking about but
that is indeed all the time that we have
folks thank you so much for
participating in tonight's show and we
look forward to seeing you again next
week so take care good night a great
week
bye
