here are the stories we're covering this
week in the category 5 TV news room
thieves are using radio jammers to leave
your car unlocked when you use the key
fob to lock it the evolution of the
grocery store is coming from amazon from
the creepy toy files you might want to
think twice about placing an IQ or Kayla
smart toy under the tree this season and
are you a daily a daily motion user
change your passwords immediately these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere Jeff Weston Yemen you're
building a brand new beautiful website
what are you alright you're terrible
actor what this we're acting comes into
play I don't know where I think you're
supposed to act okay I'm building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website it's true how much hard
drive space you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cat five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roots are your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
just don't put out of the papers are
just don't do it but hey it's a great
deal folks best deal you're gonna find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV / dreamhost I'm Sasha
the radisson here at the top stories for
the week of December 7 2016 police in
England are warning that thieves are
using radio jammers to steal items cars
parts boys service stations the police
said the transmitters could be used to
interrupt signals from remote keys
preventing vehicles from being locked
properly the force said 14 recent thefts
from vehicles with no obvious sign of a
break-in had been reported it advised
motorists to check vehicles before
leaving them unattended remote keys have
a unique signal which is transmitted via
radio waves from the fob to the car
jammers overpower these signals from the
owners key and interfere with this
communication the devices can be used
over a large area in theory allowing
thieves to cover an entire car park
would-be thieves rely on drivers
pressing the lock button on their fob
and forgetting to double check whether
the vehicle is secured leaving it open
and allowing for easy entry more modern
vehicles which use keyless entry could
also be vulnerable this is an
interesting point because everybody
seems to rely on their key fobs now and
as long as I hear the beep I just assume
all as well but really if they're
jamming it you probably still hear the
beep right I don't know if you would I
think it would just like cut off the
signal completely but you you're at a
busy parking lot at a mall and you've
got the kids running around or whatever
have you right I suppose they could get
sophisticated enough that when it jams
the signal it could be pan other horn or
something like that or you know
something to throw you off but see and I
know that a lot of vehicles more so on
the higher end ones that I can't afford
they've got the the keys where when you
get close enough it automatically
unlocks and when you walk away it
automatically locks it but it's like
within a proximity of 5 10 feet or
something okay so makes you wonder if
this would prevent those from working as
well I suppose it depends on how that
technology works i'm not familiar with
the inner workings of that if it's
looking sounds to me like that type of
locking mechanism is looking for a
signal row when you get too far for the
signal to reach the car
it locks so you would think in that case
if they jammed your signal the door
would lock right so it would be the
opposite effect but what they're doing
is actually basically blocking your cars
ability to receive the locking code that
is coming from the way to jam the
jammers jam the jammers it sounds like a
hip-hop track from the 1980s see I
immediately go to raspberry raspberry
only one person uses raspberry
spaceballs I jammed jam nice yeah damn
that's all hunting no no it's a space
jam Rick Moranis yeah Spaceballs Oh No
tastic a totally unrelated but
completely related spaceballs reference
was unrelated that's right i was
thinking more so about the key fob thing
did you know that your head can be used
to extend the signal of your remote for
your car this is where we realize that
Jeff Weston is actually bonkers no no
that's true that's true my dad show this
to me cuz somebody showed a Tim about 15
years ago to use it all the time so
we're at a car lot looking for a sticker
knows the button that he was he's trying
to find the car that we were looking
looking to get and it wasn't working so
that I see me go like this and then way
on the other side of a lot I hear the
cars alarm go off and then he turns it
off and I'm like what it he's like I was
a little trick that was talk to me so I
looked it up apparently your head works
as some sort of like extension to the
signal so is that how we Jam the jammers
is to hold it to our chin when we lock
our cars I don't know maybe a lot of
crazy people walking around with fog
fabulous people look at her bum bum Wow
amazon has revealed plans for a
brick-and-mortar grocery store chain
without a checkout process where
customers will instead pay for the goods
they have selected via an app the just
walk out shopping experience uses the
same types of technologies found in
self-driving cars customers will swipe
into the store you
using the Go app it will use computer
vision sensors and deep learning
algorithms to keep track of what
customers are picking up off the shelves
amazon has spent four years developing
the shop the shop will offer ready to
eat breakfast lunch dinner and snack
options made fresh every day by on-site
chefs or by local kitchens and bakeries
grocery essentials such as bread and
milk will also be on sale alongside
amazon meal kits with all the
ingredients needed to make a meal for
two in about 30 minutes once the shopper
leaves the store there amazon account
will be charged and receipt sent to them
the first shop is expected to open to
the public in seattle in the u.s. in
early 2017 questions comments thoughts
concerns it's a dangerous precedent to
set up a store where you just grab
something off the shelf and walk out the
door because won't it eventually happen
where that will become the norm to the
point where if I go into a craft shop or
something I might forget that oh I have
to go to a cashier and walk out with
something that I haven't paid for that
seems like a shaky defense though I
don't have to login actively she odd
sort of yeah I mean yeah I guess you do
hey so it's more like a digital shopping
without a cashier on steroids kind of
idea but what happened not that the
cashiers on steroids now what will
happen if I walk in hey Dave and I go to
one of these stores yes because he's
like really anti robot but you know I
still go I don't go to ATMs when I don't
have to and I don't go to two robotic
cashiers and that's not because I'm anti
anti robot it's because I support the
employment of I said people and so I
don't so I so just to interject that you
know I I go to the teller because I want
to support the teller and I go put the
robot even though I love people this is
about anti person I'm just pro robot um
however if Dave and I walk into this
Amazon shop right and are both walking
around logged in how will it be able to
discern who gets charged for what when
we're side by each yeah it's just double
dipping maybe need to take two of
everything right but yeah take 2 Cinco
what happens if you walk in and you
don't have your phone or you're not
logged while they assume that everyone
has their phone at all times you assume
but they assume yes absolutely cold eyes
halfway through them what if yeah you
can't you can't leave the store but oh
my gosh I hope you don't have a 5th gen
iphone but with that I mean if there's
anybody even in the store because the
fact that now the store is completely
robotic I mean you could walk in without
a phone and be like oh I'm just going to
take the fruit salad here and I don't
know guaranteed they have security
guarantee you have in store chefs so the
shafts will come at you with a butcher
knife that's right kutta yo you didn't
pay yeah look out chef's knives flying
at you it's right miles mari billion yes
oh yeah the chef's knife sir we we can
turn anything into an advertisement
something like last week our accidental
add about their coffee cups that was
amazing if you haven't seen it make sure
you get on to our YouTube channel Linux
tech show com that was not an ad for
linux tech show calm it was a good at it
was it put it up but I enjoyed it here's
something not to buy on Amazon the
makers of the IQ and Kayla smart toys
have been accused of subjecting children
to ongoing surveillance and posing an
imminent and immediate threat to their
safety and security the accusations come
via a formal complaint in the US by
consumer groups they along with several
several EU bodies are calling for
investigations into the manufacturers
Genesis toys which makes the product has
not responded to a request for comment
nor has nuance communications the firm
that provides speech recognition
software for the products it is also a
subjective
us complaint filed with the federal
trade commission the neuro Egypt
customer or the Norwegian consumer
council also assests the toys and their
terms and conditions they found the
products lacking and potentially in
breach of advertising regulations it's
quite disturbing because the company
reserves the right to direct marketing
towards kids said fin mere sad technical
director of digital services at the
council in January 2015 the BBC and
security researcher Ken Monroe at Penn
test partners revealed the vulnerability
in Kayla software that allowed the doll
to be hacked and mr. Muir stead said
that it appeared the problem had not yet
been fixed nearly two years later wow
crazy according to the US complaint the
doll prompts children to provide
personal data verbally including their
parents names the names of their school
and the place where they live Rik
Ferguson researcher at security firm
Trend Micro says how the data is
collected and stored and shared all of
that appears to be almost entirely
unregulated and the parents are
certainly not made aware of and in any
comprehensible fashion of the extent of
the data that's collected or how it may
be used in the future it also says the
toys allowed unauthorized bluetooth
connections from any phone or tablet
within 50 feet or 15 meters the
Norwegian consumer capital has now filed
its own complaint to three authorities
in Norway including the consumer
protection on bond buds Minh further
complaints from other bodies are to be
filed in France Sweden Greece Belgium
Ireland and the Netherlands that's a
creepy toy that's a super insanely
creepy toy yeah I feel like I would
knock that way as a spy cam more than
you've been as an actual white knight
but in this instance this company is the
spy this company is storing the data who
knows where and who knows how
and how secure that data is now I
realize you know that it's a news story
but I feel like there's some bits of
pieces of information that are missing I
mean it talks about Bluetooth connection
within 15 to 30 feet but what is that
Bluetooth connection for and does that
give you full access to the hard drive
is it based on an app and does this
stuff transmitted over the Internet I'd
say yeah its cloud driven I saw this
story it is cloud driven maybe maybe I
missed that in the news I was trying to
read listen but I could have missed it
but so does it automatically update with
this is the thing we nobody really knows
they they haven't received word from the
company you know where where's this
being stored where is this data being
stored so how is it being secured how
are you protecting these children like
it really directly hits us in like a
very vulnerable spot because you can't
you want to teach children you know self
play you want them to entertain
themselves you don't want to be there
all of the time you give them this doll
that's supposed to interact and be fun
and this doll is creepily spying on your
family it's kind of like yeah okay so
it'd be if someone hacked it and turned
it into one sorry could I what why do I
always have to fight with you Sasha I
just don't just remember not all robots
at me like to be wrong I maybe I do
maybe idea but there's a part of me
that's sitting here going is this such a
huge shock like we you've got online
presence you've got apps that are geared
for kids that are all internet based
this doesn't stop no matter what you do
I mean it's sure this is a doll and you
know this robot thing that maybe the
company can update but it's no different
than any other online interaction that
kids have I mean I think of all the apps
that I've downloaded for my kids to
their phones and you could do suggestive
advertising you could store all that
information anyway I mean how many apps
to parents download and they don't look
at the fact that oh this calendar app
has access to your phone your microphone
your camera exactly it so I I get why
people are like oh my gosh this tall
it's gonna you know but we've got apps
that do that why is this such a shock
that we live in a world of internet of
finding that was good life I think it's
because the apps are actually for adults
you give your adult phone to you child
don't you soon it's the parents consent
to do that whereas you're giving the
child oh yeah but my five year olds not
going to buy that toy from Toys R Us
herself I'm going to buy it and give it
to her it's no different than
downloading an app for my kids I need to
clarify looking at IQ robot do I need an
internet connection to play with IQ this
is on their web site an internet
connection will be required to download
the free app which unlocks all of the
fun things which IQ can do some
functions such as searching for
information on the internet famous
people places etc require an internet
connection right of course Wi-Fi is
recommended many of IQs features do not
require an internet connection such as
this games brain teasers and trivia so
they are not exposing their what it
actually does what has happened is
somebody's looked at the terms and
conditions and realize that they have
rights that that they can do things with
data that is collected by these robots
right and they can do target marketing
and do things like that so it becomes
it's not a toy it's it's a marketing
thing but so is the rest of everything
that's connected that doesn't make it
okay no I completely hurry here we are I
told lying on the innocence of children
and and trusting putting trust in these
kinds of things like we had Teddy Ruxpin
he was pretty benign I had such I had
bingo the bear who pretty much just said
things when you clicked his mouth she I
at Alfea where you Bella leave yeah you
put the little cards in there then you
play the game oh yes and there was
Robbie the robot I do not last LT the
robots right now I I knew of these
things I wanted them I
none sure you go probably still good
Speak &amp; Spell and speakin math that
those are cool yeah I really wanted one
of those children sized cars that you
could actually drive the electric cars
right and when when they when they came
out was I was like the i was on a one
year older than the maximum age and it
still hurts me to this day so uh we've
got one that our kids right and I just
like to point out I can get on that
drive it not recommended but I guess
when you need a selfie stick no yeah I
don't need a selfie stick cuz I give the
fans on the wheel really when I Drive a
kids car that's it alright safa details
of more than 85 million users of video
sharing site dailymotion have been
hacked according to leaked source not
another one another one the breach
detection company said that eighty five
point two million user names and email
addresses and 18 million scrambled
passwords had been stolen on the
twentieth of October but the passwords
were protected with the bcrypt hashing
algorithm which should make it hard for
hackers to access accounts in a blog
post the only motion advised all its
users to change their passwords it said
it has come to our attention that a
potential security risk coming from
outside dailymotion may have compromised
the passwords for a certain number of
accounts it also passed on advice about
how to come up with a hard to guess
password and said users should not use a
simple pass a word and number
combination such as password 1234
commenting on the hack attack markjames
a security specialist at ESET said check
and change your passwords on this site
if you have used that same password on
any other site then check those then
change those immediately and possibly
consider a password manager if you're
not already using one without further
information about what was or what was
not stolen we won't know the extent of
the damage but needless to say more data
being added to your already overflow
an online profile floating around the
web is not good for any of us based in
Paris dailymotion is ranked as the 113th
most popular website in the world
according to alexa rankings this year
has seen a series of masa data breaches
with experts saying that there are now
1.5 billion stolen credentials available
to hackers and attackers online the one
thing I have to say is I really like the
way they released the information and
said okay listen not only have I told
you that this there has been this breach
but I would like you to change your
password for this your password for you
know other accounts I want to let you
know that there is some encryption so
maybe your stuff might be a little bit
safe makes me feel more comfortable with
them hmm see I'm again I'm not surprised
that we have another password hack store
it seems like a weekly thing now doesn't
it it does but what seems to surprise me
is the fact that the saying please don't
make your password password 123 but it's
like the number one password like what
am I supposed to do password four three
two one in the world of time not making
fun of you just because that's your
password what it means one i watch hurry
I worry because I am NOT a great strong
password maker like I do sometimes use a
password generator and then I use
password a password manager to store
that but what I'm coming up with a
password I literally look around the
room a find out it's not find something
and then spell it out in numbers and
letters do a little search on our
website category 5 TV for password
recipe and it's a great way to create
stronger passwords while doing exactly
that same thing by associating and you
can even write them down and people
won't be able to get your password from
having written it down because like my
coffee for example could be part of my
password so coffee could be the word but
mug is what I write down what I
number right and so we ain't watch that
episode it goes into great detail about
password recipes yeah for example if you
if you if coffee was part of your
password but they EES were threes and
the seed was a five you're getting elite
right well that's exactly what I was
over yet now we're getting fish to Cape
take all of our ones were actually ! I
kind of like ice I spelt my feet out
correctly but with symbols instead of
letters my path was just seven hyphens
nobody will ever guess it all right both
folks oh yeah we've got to wrap up gonna
wrap up thanks for watching the category
5 TV news room don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category 5 TV news room I'm
stashes or made us
[Music]
