I
the evening is gonna be fresh you're
gonna go downstairs cut up read the news
got a double check my keys setting up
everything let's get going cameras on
lights on everybody's raising time to
get things set up gotta watch the clock
for the win now it's time to it's
Tuesday Tuesday wish I want you to stay
yesterday was Monday
two day is Tuesday it's gonna be
fantastic so fantastic we're gonna have
a good time
tomorrow is Wednesday and Thursday comes
afterward
is gonna be ruined
it's to the stage
Judy we sure weren't you
dang show texture Tuesday
I'm too
tech show
welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 by TV
or email us at live at category 5
and now let's get here's your host
Robbie Ferguson and welcome back one of
my 186 category five technology TV yeah
it's been largest engine yet had
everybody here everybody's clapping in
the chat room thank you thank you you're
crazy around here people episode number
186 marks the sixth episode of our web
development series check out cat5 TV /
web dev and we've got lots lots to cover
tonight we're going to be looking at
finishing off the the kind of the main
layout of that website and then we're
going to be moving on to coding it in
PHP it's an exciting time because
everybody on to some even more fun stuff
everything's fine yeah somebody's
mention of my mic is happens to trouble
here I'll just double check here it is
indeed on check check okay it just means
i get to listen to me tonight you get to
listen to her check there we go I did I
might have been a loose connects i
jiggled the wire when in doubt jiggle
the wire hopefully that's not gonna be a
problem throughout the show cool nice to
see everybody joining us in chat room if
this is your first time here it's nice
to see ya it's nice to see if you've
been here a lot of times but certainly
it's nice to have some new viewers
tonight do you know once you've watched
the show a couple times get onto our
website category 5 TV and that click on
interact and you'll see the viewer
testimonials there where you can tell us
what you think about the show we'd love
to be able to get those and tell our
viewers what you think cool
alright we've got so much to cover
tonight yeah I'm kind of watching the
chat room there and see what's going on
I've got to Eric is off tonight and
actually Becca is filling in in the in
the newsroom and so we'll just find out
what's what's coming up in the news as
well coming up in the newsroom free
Ubuntu CDs will no longer be shipping
from canonical virgin oceanic planes to
dive to the deepest points in the ocean
today we celebrate the 50th anniversary
of the first human in space and did you
know that with every photo you upload or
share from your smartphone you could be
sharing hidden private information which
you'd rather be kept secret I'll tell
you all about it so stick around and
these stories are coming up in about 30
minutes thanks Becca uh yeah all right
so I've got some viewer questions here
that I'm going to cover let's see
certain things off I've got an email
here from two red line who says I've got
two items that I'd like to know more
about number one how do i set up a
windows 7 box to be able to receive
clonezilla images over a home network I
tried installing the ssh server and
could not connect looking for the
simplest setup on your Windows system
you've got you've got built-in network
sharing so if you create a folder you
can actually right click on that folder
and you'll have the ability to go
properties and then you'll see a tab on
the properties tab and I don't have a
windows 7 system that i can show you but
on that tab you'll see a sharing tab in
properties from there you can share that
folder and that's going to show you
actually the network path to that
computer right in in that dialogue so so
then from your clonezilla system you
remember how how we did that in a
previous episode of the show you can
refer back to that i'll put a link to it
in the show notes for episode number 186
and then you'll be able to to see how
that's done as well so but basically the
sharing is already built in you don't
need to install anything you don't need
to install ssh in order to do that
however windows seven does
have some interesting firewall rules
which may need circumvention and we can
find out more about that if you run into
some trouble sometimes what you have to
do is is work around the windows
firewall by setting up exceptions that
could be something that could be a
problem if you're with if you're working
exclusively within an internal network
and you don't have outside access coming
in then you could disable that windows
seven firewall because you're protected
behind your nav road as well so you can
just reenable it when you're done doing
your your image depends on the scenario
let us know and I'd love to carry on
with that and see but that's that's
really basic networking as far as
setting up sharing as well so part two
of the question let's see how do i
connect via a map drive example my dr
appt on a windows 7 over to my free
hands pre NASA's running fine just
connectivity to access it from windows
is an issue it shouldn't be a problem in
that if you know the IP address of your
freenas box it needs to be a static IP
otherwise you reboot it could get a new
IP address from your router or wherever
your DHCP server is so if you you need
to set your freenas boxes a static IP
and then from your Windows machine when
you go to map the drive you go / / and
that's top left bottom right / / the IP
address / and then the share in order to
mount that so but yeah let us know if
that helps it's kind of like it's well
it's it it's networking kind of 101
right so you could maybe even see we
could see if there's a like a windows 7
networking tutorial or something on the
Microsoft website would probably be a
good place to check
I'll just do a quick search and then if
there is something that I can I could
throw a like a link in the in the show
notes it's gonna be quite a bit but try
a search for just I'm searching for
windows seven network sharing and coming
up with a whole bunch of stuff including
Microsoft links and the reason I suggest
that is because it's just it's really
you know it's just understanding you
need to understand IP addresses if you
already understand that then samba and
that and network sharing over windows
but it's as simple as just right
clicking on that folder with no problem
isn't that sharing sorry your audios in
it I've been asked to smack you and it's
tempting it is so tempting but as he
walks off the set yeah she's about to
hit me just insulted him and out it's
like Krista show welcome back hello
hello it's nice to see you alright let's
trash that fantastic hello yes yes
you're back I'm back back she was
smirking at me for something I just
figure was just because that's what she
does oh well someone asked me to I don't
know you can't really say no to viewers
viewers always right employee ok so I
hope you got all that next question
coming from max 999 how do you record
your show I want to know we use a
application called Wirecast from
telestream you can find out more at cat5
TV / Wirecast and we also use that to
broadcast the show to switch around the
camera angles to add these fancy little
footer graphics basically everything
that you see on the show
is powered by Wirecast cat5 TV /
Wirecast we have a copy that we're going
to be giving away and we're coming up on
your last chance your final chance to
vote for the one that you would like to
sit the person that you would like to
see win that software i go to cat5 TV /
win short for win not windows its win
like win a prize Carly are leading entry
is entry number two who says now
understand that the way that we're
giving us away is people submitted their
their comments about why they think they
should win Wirecast and here so far as
the winning entry and you can vote for
your favorite although I have only used
the demo version of wire cast and not
with multiple cameras I have become a
fan of wire cast after spending hours
poring through forums and comments I
can't find a better program for
switching live video I also appreciate
the tech support that this product
provides telestream keeps improving
Wirecast and i understand the newest
upgrade is free for current users they
are a company that cares about making a
great product and I appreciate the
thought that has been put forth in
making Wirecast every time I research
more I am amazed by all that can be done
with it I'm anxiously awaiting the day
when I can produce a live stream with it
I am looking to use wire cast for
webcasting the local churches service I
plan on running three cameras and the
desktop presenter based on all of the
reviews and support provided by
telestream Wirecast should have no
problem with the four streams the aspect
that sold me on wire cast though is that
it is a three in one program it can mix
live video it can stream different
quality streams and record to the hard
drive all simultaneously this keeps me
from running more programs and less
manpower running the software Wirecast
would suit me perfectly and be put to
good use week after week so that is our
winning entry entry number two so far
but you've got your chance to also get
into cat5 TV / win and you'll be
cast your ballot and and see who's going
to actually win that software but
everything will just said there is true
it's fantastic and and for you this is
the desktop presenter which allows us to
stream our desktop imagine say in a
church environment how handy that could
be for so many different reasons posting
lyrics and things like that switching
from camera to camera and doing the
captions and things putting vs. at the
bottom and references how cool is that
all this stuff is all done through wire
cast so definitely think abuse for for
sure and the other thing about you
mention about Telestream being really
supportive of their community I also
appreciate that they're supportive of
their staff there's something to be said
about of a working for a good company
and from all that I've heard knowing
some of the people at Telestream there
they're really good to their people and
I think that that also kind of puts them
up not okay yeah you know it's just like
if you treat your people well and and
care about the people who work for you
then of course they're gonna you're
gonna get yeah it usually shows in the
end yeah really so the onions are
benefits from that for sure alright i
guess i could put this on my belt no you
guys can hear me now great lucky yeah
you know check check check check it's a
little quiet there we go it's a little
bit better alright we miss Eric but we
appreciate the use of his microphone
some reason why it's not here that's
meant for it would be the reason yeah
alright so we're going to jump right
into our web development series this is
number six which you'll be able to get
over to cat five dot TV / web dev and
from that website you'll see we've got a
very exciting announcement to make in
that if you are looking for web hosting
so you need a place to actually put your
website cool thing is we've got we've
got a hosting company that is partnering
with category 5 to provide you with the
best possible deal we have one year of
web hosting a
domain registration that's like you're
your own com you've got a two week trial
and everything so you're hosting free
domain registration all that for seventy
dollars us wow so pretty fast a good
what you can do is go to cat five dot TV
/ dreamhost and use the coupon code cat5
TV it's all uppercase and that
information is also at the top of the
page of the web development series cat5
Don TV / web dev that coupon as far as I
understand it is never going to expire
so you can use that as far as i
understand it for the longevity of this
this series that should that it should
still work for you so even if you're
watching this in 2014 deep into the
future you should be able to use that
coupon home all uppercase cat5 TV and
it's cat5 TV / dream host that'll get
you there all right so that is the
hosting package we've got set up for you
in the meantime get over to that website
cat5 TV / web dev in order to download
this week's files we are starting off
with episode 185 files so that is our
image files and our index PHP all that
stuff so I'm going to load up everything
that I need to get started and krista's
loading up her stuff as well we're going
to see what we can do with this here
website this is category 5 technology TV
i'm your host Robbie Ferguson christos
joining us a game tonight we are
proceeding with that developing a
website right from scratch and we're
going to see this thing right to the end
and we're going to see that exactly you
know how we can create this website
right through all the way to search
engine optimization and submission we're
going to cover that at the end of the
series as well so all very important
stuff and I am happy to hear that a lot
of people are getting a lot of the
series as well okay I get a lot of email
and jaw as is thrilled
what more naps the happy nappy but for
the most part I mean a lot of people are
really getting a lot from the series and
understanding that you know sometimes
there it's necessary to do a multi-part
series in order to really accomplish
what we're setting out to do and at the
end of this will be moving on to two
other tutorials and lessons as well but
we're trying to keep our focus for the
next few weeks at least and be able to
work right through this for you so I've
got my files up here Krista you've got
your files that I do Oh told me to
disconnect this as your fault I know
just plan okay that's for mac there it
is okay perfect okay so we've got a wire
casts remote desk remote / me desktop
presenter running on my linux computer
there right and then it's running over
on the mac over here you can see how
versatile it is just because we were
just previously talking about Wirecast
okay so we left off last week at cat
demo cat5 TV / 003 our website currently
looks like this so we've just placed
this image here the wood grain and we're
getting we're getting rocking on the
actual layout of our website so back to
our code here let's bring up our style
dot CSS we've got lots of people
following along if you haven't yet got
the files you can grab those from cat5
TV / web dev and you'll be able to
actually follow along with us live and
ask your questions in the chat room at
category five dot TV this is my style
sheet and this is my actual website so
let's find where we left off here we've
got the wood grain in our header area
okay
let's bring up our mock-up so we can see
where we're going
there we are okay so we've got we make
great things happen that's got to go
over top of that wood grain and we've
got aspire to be great a little bit of
photo kind of thing going on there so a
couple of things that we're going to
need to do we need to have we've talked
about floats in previous episode we're
going to have items that are floating
left which is going to be our text where
I have items that are floating right
which is going to be the image there so
over here i'm going to create a new
let's go back here and go to our header
element here where we've got just a
non-breaking space and i'll just put in
here for example going to put the word
hello which is just a test test text so
that we can actually see where that's
going to lie now we know that that's
going to be in the top left corner of
that element let's get connected over to
our demo server here and get that
uploaded so demo doc appt five dot TV /
004 it's going to be our folder our
working folder for tonight I noticed in
the chat room last week Krista some
people were mentioned well why don't you
just work on it live on this on the
server and then just it will
automatically update and I should just
clarify and normally that's that is one
of the ways that i would work but I want
to make I want to make this so that
people understand the relation between
our files the ftp site the web host
Versailles you have to do in the back
because if I'm just opening it remotely
for those of you who know what that
means whether it be through ssh or just
through an ftp client that can mount the
drive the next person who's trying this
tutorial may not be able to do that and
so we want to keep this as universal as
possible those who have access to be
able to do something like that and know
how to do it and they can follow along
in that way but we don't want to
restrict this to those those people we
want to keep it as open as possible
that's kind of my thinking so now on our
website which is demo cat5 TV / 0 0 for
you see on the wood grain we have black
text that says hello so we know that if
we put our text in there what was it
that you're clever wording we make great
things happen let's do it all right
remember what font that was uh that one
is Joseph in slab I think and I didn't
go to bonds API ok so we need to
understand what a web safe font is
versus any font on your system as you go
through you know if you're using your
graphic editor or your word processor
you'll see that you've got possibly
hundreds of different fonts to choose
from but not all of those fonts and in
fact very few of those fonts are going
to be what's called web safe that means
that basically if you put it on your
website it's going to appear the same
for every person's computer reason for
that is they may have come with other
applications they may be operating
system specific they may be non-free you
know so you may you may not be able to
get them cross-platform if you use Linux
you may not have them on on Linux in it
and similarly if you've got some open
fonts on Linux they may not come with
windows so it becomes this mess so if
you if you don't know what our website
fonts and what ones are not then you may
end up using fonts that are not going to
display correctly so basically I mean
you've got a very limited selection
arial helvetica and I don't even know
that helveticus truly web safe verdana
so most of the microsoft core fonts are
going to be found on pretty much most
systems any other ones that you would go
with uh Comic Sans no don't have that
even if it works don'tdon't was created
as a joke yeah but you know was it has
ms at the end microsoft you and your
font ok so I've got the text in there we
make great things happen but what ok so
what we're talking about with website
fonts
there's a something that can help us
it's called the google font API all
links that we display in in the show
tonight are going to be available in the
show notes category 5 TV this is episode
number 186 and of course it will also
appear cat5 TV / web dev for the series
there's the link for you this is the
google web font API this circumvents the
limitation of the web font and gives us
some truly awesome wants to work with
you can see that these fonts would
definitely not be fonts that are
considered web safe but through Google's
API we're now able to utilize and
utilize a lot of these fonts any of
these fonts that are listed here okay
google.com / web fonts is what I'm
looking at right now and you knew the
name of that of that farm Josephine slab
I believe there's Joseph in Sam's pretty
sure there's two
joseph and slab look at you go good
memory and you're good you're good yeah
okay so I'm going to click on that font
and you'll see there's a couple of
things you can do you launch it in the
font previewer which is a cool tool if
you're just looking for that perfect
font you can enter your text up here and
you can actually then say okay I'm not
too happy with that one let's try
changing our font family to something
else and it is going to change it for
you to one of these google api fonts in
this case we know that it's joseph and
slab so all we need to do is we don't
need to download it we don't need to do
anything like that we just go use this
font and you'll see that it's going to
provide us with a couple of different
things here first of all the header
reference tag to a Joseph in slab
stylesheet so all I've done is that
triple clicked on that or highlighted it
just with a drag operation copy that to
my clipboard and now back in my index
dot PHP I'll paste that just below the
existing style dot CSS there we go so
now we've got our style sheet style that
CSS being loaded and then this google
api joseph and slab style sheet as well
so now back at there's still one one
more thing that we need to do in order
to utilize this font and it shows here
as an example placing it within the h1
tag now that's not nice
and they're back
that my friends was a serious handles
crash welcome back we're going to give
it just a second to trickle in and see
if we've got stability John have you got
any screen no welcome back and this is
why we love windows 7 no wow welcome
back everybody I see that people are
starting to come around there we go okay
where did we leave off chat room where
did we lose you had we copied the style
sheet to the header yet had we gotten
there okay we got to the point where we
copied the text and then windows crashed
dramatically too many funds too many
fonts it heard that we were trying to
bypass the font limitations all right
let's let's pick it up as best we can
where we left off going to undo a couple
of things that I did there before we
lost ourselves ok Google font API we
understand that what that is what we
need to do is we need to get access to
the stylesheet that Google provides I
can do that by triple clicking here
we've this is the Joseph and slab font
that we're looking at and this is a
reference to the CSS file for that
particular font in order to give us
access to that as if it were an actual
website fun we're going to be able to
tap into that so with that I'm going to
go over to my index PHP and just below
where i currently have my existing style
sheet i'm actually going to paste in
that google api style sheet for
josephines lab ok now Google is by
default showing us that here's what the
font would look like in the CSS for an
h1 tag that is a header and we don't
necessarily have to include that in the
header it can be in a class or an ID
wherever you want to put it so what I'm
going to do is instead of copying that
whole line i'm just going to copy the
CSS to get joseph and slab
on my on my CSS so go back to here and
bring up my style dot CSS and we're
going to go to header which already
exists and i'm going to paste that
because that's where we want color
number FFF for white I expect that was
yday I yeah I am sure yes wait okay good
I am going to upload
are you serious yeah I was saying in the
chat room there during our second crash
of the evening this has never happened
before there's a first time for
everything we've had some crashes before
but what a weird night next week we're
gonna be talking about Windows 7
stability on category five maybe skip
over a future yeah imma we should talk
about it this week we have had you been
out 20 minutes for 20 minutes I've lost
all track because how much time we lost
due to system crashes if you're watching
this in the RSS feeds and you're
wondering why we keep stopping and all
of a sudden talking about other things
people in the chat room have theories
that is not my fault well windows 7 has
some form of I don't know if it's a
sensor or some form of software that is
able to detect emaki in its vicinity
yeah it shuts down on her but then I
would think it would be the other way
around like Mac would have that that
crashes windows so that everyone who has
a mac can sit there and go ah mine
didn't crash how come yours always
crashes when I come and into the room
astic other theories in the chat room is
the windows itself is a virus hmm that
makes sense John my friend do you have
screen yet fan tabulous have my work cut
out for me this evening okay do we do we
brave it and hit the news ah good as
time as any chatroom and viewers you are
the best for sticking it out with us
tonight as we completely you know what
can you do when when something good yeah
I meltdown it's like and and this is me
angry
at windows 7 that's scary yeah my ears
getting ready yeah that's actually the
heat of the lamps John all right well
Becca I will hand it over to you as we
sit here and talk amongst ourselves
about the joys of Windows chat room
let's let's have a little talk shall we
from a category five dot TV newsrooms
nautical the nature of adventure has
announced a baby terminating the
shipping program which sent free CD
nautical says it is shipped millions of
CDs to every country in the world but it
has been easing back the program over
the last two years and limiting the
number of CDs and applications for CDs
per person per ubuntu 11.04 users will
no longer be able to apply for a free CD
konata khals gary carr said recently
technology moves on a CD distribution
program especially one of that size and
delivered in that way makes little sense
car is no doubt referring to the fact
that you boon to is easily downloaded
from their website making traditional CD
distribution a thing of the past and
frankly and unnecessary but substantial
expense the program started in 2005 to
address the lack of availability of
high-speed internet but since then for
many countries faster internet
connections have meant that iso images
at Lubuntu could be downloaded quickly
and then burnt CD are so those who still
want canonical produced discs will find
CD pack still available to purchase
through the canonical store ubuntu is
still free and will remain freely
downloadable from ubuntu com billionaire
Richard Branson is well on his way to
space now he plans to explore the
deepest parts of the ocean as well
Branson announced his undersea
exploration venture virgin oceanic last
week and unlike a suborbital spaceflight
company Virgin Galactic the new venture
is not accepting paying passengers
instead it will comprise only five
deep-sea dive each one carrying just one
person to the deepest points in each of
the five oceans to make the dives virgin
has built a custom submarine the subs
cockpit has a bubble-like dome made of
quartz which can withstand 13 million
pounds of pressure across its surface
and a life-support system designed to
allow for 24-hour dives in addition to
its one human the sub will have a water
sampling system that can filter microbes
and viruses from the water for later
study it will also be able to deploy
unmanned probes virgin has confirmed
that scientists are in line to make the
most of these dives for their research
into bottom-dwelling microbes
bioluminescence and ce4 geology today
marks the 50th anniversary of the first
human in space on April 12 1961 27 year
old Soviet pilot and cosmonaut yuri
gagarin completed an orbit of the earth
in his Vostok spacecraft during the
historic 108 minute flight of his vostok
1 spacecraft Gagarin passed over the
Soviet Union and the specific skimmed
over the Straits of Magdalene before
crossing the Atlantic Africa in the
Middle East the mission nearly ended in
disaster when the descent capsule and
service module failed to separate
cleanly due to a bundle of connecting
cables which were burnt by the heat of
reentry to end the first spaceflight
Gagarin parachuted down in Russia's
central saratov region to be met by an
amazed farm worker who offered the
cosmonaut bread and milk for more
information about the flight you can
visit you can go to Wikipedia and our
quick link article or click link to the
article is a cat5 dot TV / first in
space what is meant to be a really cool
feature of the modern camera and
smartphone device is turning into a
creepy and frightening way for stalkers
to track the very movements and
locations of people they stalk
throughout the internet did you know
that if your device supports geo-tagging
pictures you've emailed or uploaded from
your smartphone could be leaking
location information threatening your
safety or that of your children NBC
recently combed Twitter and sites like
Facebook craigslist and photobucket they
found they could easily identify the
home addresses and play areas of
children whose pictures were posted by
their parents this hidden smartphone
location information is saved with every
picture you take police officer mark
judith was able to to use a freely
available browser plug-in to click on
pictures of a four-year-old test subject
he not only found her home when he
clicked on a picture which was taken in
her bedroom but also located her daycare
favorite fast food shop in the specific
part of the park where she plays you can
protect yourself and your family
somewhat by removing these hidden tags
from your existing photos using freely
available software but it
also be an option to disable the
location sharing features of your device
will include these few ideas in the show
notes for episode 186 which will be
available shortly after this broadcast
at category 5 TV get the full stories at
category 5 TV / newsroom the category 5
TV news room is researched by roy w Nash
with contributions this week by John
grab if you have a new story you think
is worthy of honor mention email
newsroom at category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room I'm Becca
Ferguson thanks Becca this is category 5
technology TV and you find us online
triple w category five dot TV and this
episode is brought to you in part by
pogoplug at cat five TV / pogoplug and
also by planet calypso cat5 TV / calypso
we encourage you to click on our
sponsors because we need to buy a new
server you broadcast system or something
what a night we have had we're gonna get
through this tutorial people you know
what it is is the people who aren't into
the web dev stuff and they're like ah
I'm gonna hack into a server that might
be it crashing I don't think it's that
at all I don't think it's not at all do
we do we pick up where we left off its
tov a because it's like okay well how
much do we keep losing every time that
the system crash but I think we can I
think we can pick up where we were what
do you what do you think okay that's
probably a safe bet that's good I think
that's good so we have imported the CSS
added that style sheet to the header
area of our index PHP we've added a font
family for Josephine slab into our
header ID in the CSS file and we have
uploaded those files
now do we have success as far as getting
that two to work now I was now there we
go okay just as things were crashing I
wasn't sure what was you know because
I'm trying to operate both computers but
now refreshing you'll see that the font
has indeed changed to this fancy font
it's very small so what we'll do is
we'll get the given ideas as to how
large the font should be we're gonna
bring up on our mock up again and this
mock-up contains that flan it's got it
looks like three different sizes so I'm
just going to highlight with my square
marquee they're rectangular select tool
and highlight the first line and all I'm
doing see I'm just copying that to my
clipboard and then pasting it with edit
paste as new image and all that that
does form for me is it shows me the
dimensions up here at the top 52 pixels
high okay so now at my CSS now I know
that it's 52 pixels that I need the
height of the font to be so here's what
we're going to do we're going to create
a couple of classes we've never done
that before and you know for John who's
just finishing up school and yourself
it's like classes are fun right oh no
how much fun no they're not so fun put
in CSS they can become there a party a
partay so here's what we're going to do
we're going to create a couple of
classes array it within our ID now an ID
is okay there is one of these on the
page it's called header a class on the
other hand is something that cannot
occur multiple times on a page I could
say I could make a class that's called
white and then that way it would force
that font to be white because it would
be color equal their color colon number
ffff semicolon for that or I could go
class equals italic and I could make it
italicize if I want you know why would
you do that but just
give you an idea it's something that you
can use multiple times you could use it
for putting a border around things or
things like that so you can understand
all that first of all okay so we're
going to go span class equals and this
is going to be what we call this big one
okay and that's the words we make ok so
we open and close that span then we need
a carriage return a line break and
another class here class equals quote
big too because this is a different size
was a great things that's the next great
thing we make yeah great things okay and
happen is its own kind of thing a span
is is going to let us do this without
breaking it's like it operates kind of
like a div but it doesn't it doesn't put
a carriage return before or after and it
doesn't take up the entire width of the
page a span can be in the middle of a
sentence and it's going to not break the
sentence up it's just going to apply
style to that to that section so okay so
we're going to create another span
around this one with a class of big
three now remember those are not going
to do anything at the moment because we
haven't specified any of these classes
in our CSS file but we'll save those and
now we're going to go to our CSS file
and I'm going to go ID okay the pound
symbol header space dot class all right
big one so this is saying if I am
currently within the header ID and I
have the class of big one then do this
and I can put whatever in here i want so
font size 52 pics
and now we're going to upload both of
those files refresh our website we have
we make is the size that you have
previously specified we can also specify
different measurements we're using
pixels because we want it to be
identical to to the mock-up you could
also use point PT if you want to use the
point size of the font but here we're
specifying an actual height to that text
similarly let's grab the height of the
next area of text in our mock-up there
we are same kind of thing what we're
going to do doesn't have to be exact to
be honest with you I'm going to go edit
copy visible edit paste as new image i'm
using the GNU image manipulation program
which is a free piece of software and
it's available for download for Windows
Mac and Linux at gimp.org this area this
span big to is what we called it it's
going to be 36 pixels high Krista you
can probably establish just from what
we've learned so far exactly what that
means so chris has already created the
header ID and the big to span the class
I'm going to do the same thing if you're
following along at home that's what
you'll want to do is well what do we say
it was 30 yes I've wrote 36 but they
make it ok so I'm going to do the exact
same thing and I've added thirty six
pixels to mine as well we can confirm
that back at our file if we want to ok
so uploading those don't we just need
our style dot CSS file to be uploaded so
we haven't changed index refresh there
we go ok
and are they they're not all caps in the
mock up early RL for the small caps or
the air box okay so we'll get we'll get
to that as well okay we're going to grab
happen for big three edit paste as new
yeah ended up way down there 61 pixels
okay so for this particular one we're
going to go with this is big three our
ideas header our class is big three and
rainbow font I can say it font size 61
pics christos way ahead of me and we're
going to upload that here we go
refresh and there we have it so next up
we want to make this all caps but we've
talked about it before how we want to be
able to do that in such a way that we're
not actually screaming at the search
engines by placing all caps within the
code of our website so we're going to
use CSS to do that with the transit text
transform property and all we need to do
is go and now we've used it I'm not sure
if we used it for if we use text
transform for this particular I want
this before hey we did I think about she
is it on our navigation oh right yes
that's right so somewhere up yep there
it is text transform colon uppercase
under menu good call so I'm going to
copy that okay and we're going to go
down here and watch what we're going to
do is we're gonna actually stick that
within now here's something let's let's
learn something new let's we could add
that to header right no problem it will
work if we put it in header but let's
get a little bit fancier than that
because we know that each of these are
going to fall into spans so let's go but
we can do a few things we can go header
span right like that and now all spans
that fall within header are going to
have the text transformation uppercase
so that's one way we can do it that's
probably the well beyond just placing it
in header that's a you know the least
amount of typing okay but if we place it
in header in some cases this is more
appropriate because this is falling
within a span if I place this in header
then if I have any other text in header
then it's also going to become upper
cased in our case here that's okay so i
can do that and it's going to accomplish
exactly the same thing but in your case
perhaps that may not work depending on
if you have other texts falling within
that same ID so i refresh and it looks
exactly the same looking back at our
come up here so we need to establish an
area here that is going to Center our
text so we're going to say that it's
going to be about that wide so just to
be real quick i'm going to copy that and
paste as new image and this is a game
not to actually have an image of that
but just to have a measurement and there
are you know i can actually get that
just by dragging my mouse but depending
on what application this may be the
easiest way 525 pixels wide is what
we're going to go with so here we're
going to go well we're going to need to
have a rapper within header for our text
area so what we can do well let's do
this let's go back to index PHP okay and
you're learning along with us we're
going to put a div right here and we're
going to call this
header left with a capital L and I'm
just going to wrap my text within that
okay so it becomes a wrapper around that
so now we need to go back here we need
to update all these I'm just going to
copy the word left taste that after okay
I'm just going to make sure that that is
going to allow us so you see we are
within header but we now have something
called header left that is wrapping this
particular block of text
wow that was an awesome thing to have
happen I that gang I'm thinking we're
gonna cut our losses tonight muah we've
never had a show where it's like where
this has been the way it's been John's
just like yeah this has never happened
before I now have five times the amount
of splicing to do at the end of the
night and it's not going to come
together into a full one-hour show never
happened before but I think we're gonna
pick up our series where we left off
their next week I think this is the best
thing to do and we're gonna take some
time this weekend and try to get to the
bottom of what's going on here as far as
whether it be a windows update or what
has happened here but never been quite
like that are you Mac shopping this
weekend no you're saying I can go so
it's so expensive for what you get plain
and simple Amy for what you get for what
you get you can do more with a pc and
you have the same price if i were to
price out apples to apples and say oh
this is the price of the mac pun
intended well i think what people know
what people run the risk of with the mac
as they say oh these are so good but ok
so you pay the premium for that good if
you if you pay this if you write but
they're comparing it to a computer for
example like say my laptop versus your
laptop your laptop 2,500 bucks my laptop
400 bucks so if I'm to compare those two
together how could I possibly have an
accurate representation of apples 2pcs
it's not an accurate representation
right if I were to go out and buy a
twenty-five hundred dollar pc laptop it
would blow your mind I'm serious how
many times to crash tonight well that
was that's windows 7 that was at least
ten or a hundred times or something I
lost track
guy's help us out this week make us
viral by going to cat five dot TV /
tuesday not monday definitely not
wetness day now but tuesday cat five dot
TV / tuesday tweet it like it where your
cardigans put on a cardigan just to
that's a good idea everybody we'd have
like international cardigan bay anything
plenty of fat i don't see why not I
don't see why not I expect you all to be
wearing cardigans next week even if they
zip up my only cardigan zip stuff she's
like that's not a cardigan off Wikipedia
so again it was I was proven wrong yeah
I was incorrect I'm afraid to touch
anything now because it's like okay well
we're technically we're at a time I know
that the show don't have to let it run
just continuously yeah until it crashes
just in about four minutes yeah sorry
gang thanks everybody for being with us
and sticking it out we got to be of good
spirits when something like this happens
but the nature of live broadcasting is
sometimes you don't know and sometimes
you know something like this happens
there's really nothing we can do because
we're live and we're just going to have
to try to figure it out this week and
hope that we can have the problem solved
for for next week but if you help us go
viral I said to Krista you know this
thing could have millions of views right
path ins or thousands of millions I like
the way to think I like it if if that
happens me wrong go viral then we could
even then we could buy a new windows mac
free rock you know a mac wouldn't be a
bad idea because at least then is
Wirecast works on a mac oh there you go
so i'd consider that if we had a
thousand million views
do it yeah everybody i hope you have a
fantastic week krista thanks for
sticking it out I know this has been a
rough night because of the crash has
been horrible I not great it's like
she's reasonably new here and so I have
to say you know this is not the norm
understand this is not how it normally
goes down if you're new here this is not
the norm this is not how it normally
goes down yeah I hope you know that
thanks for being here it's still been
fun and and I know that we have learned
in a very staccato way tonight yeah but
hopefully somewhere in there we're able
to piece it together in post-production
and turn this into something and the
intro made it better the intro oh yeah I
one for us do you like it maybe that
should be permanent oh just fantastic
cat5 TV / tuesday and we'll see you next
Tuesday yeah
you
