welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 345 for tuesday the 29th
of april 2014 nice to see I'm Robbie
Ferguson I'm crystal walls Christa
tonight we are going to be talking with
the guys from CD njs we've got Ryan
kirky here as well as Thomas Davis
joining us tonight to talk about their
service how you can use that to speed up
your website absolutely free gay club
you don't want to miss out on that if
you have a website you want to make it
go faster stick around we're talking
those guys just a couple mins time
absolutely and here's what kind what is
coming up in the newsroom tonight the US
has ordered Microsoft to hand over
private user information held on servers
in Ireland the heartbleed bug is
allowing security researchers to hack
the hackers yahoo is getting in on the
digital television boom exciting and so
it begins Microsoft has announced a
serious exploit for all Internet
Explorer users and XP users are in
trouble stick around these stores are
coming up later in the show maybe a good
one we've also got eco alkalines
batteries to get away a full year supply
find out if you were the winner tonight
all you have to do is just stick around
and watch the show we'll see you after
this this is category 5 technology TV
starring Sasha dramatis Hillary Rumble
christo wells
Eric kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
this is category 5 technology TV hey
yeah so nice to have you here my name is
Robbie Ferguson I'm crystals krista i am
excited to have some great guys coming
on the show in just a couple minutes
time that's from CD njs stick around you
want to find out all about their service
and how you can put it into use on your
website before we get into that Krista
take it away oh well category five dot
TV is a member of the tech podcast
network if that strike is here that's
cat5 TV / t pn and the International
International Association of Internet
broadcasters cap I've got TV / IA ib I
really wanted to say thank you to
everybody who has donated to the show
this week it is very very helpful and we
keep the show free for you to view and
your donations help us to be able to do
that so thank you so much to everyone
who sent in a contribution cat5 don t be
/c will take you to our tip jar and of
course we've got a really interesting
way that you can support the show as
well by going to shop category 5 TV and
you'll see some links there for products
whether they be our products like shirts
and stickers and things with our logo on
it or even some links to amazon products
because we're actually partnered with
amazon and and if you go to our website
category five dot TV click on support us
and you'll see our affiliate links
actually go to amazon really interesting
way to support the show because if
you're going to buy something on amazon
anyways it doesn't matter if it's amazon
com CA UK you know it doesn't matter
we're affiliated with all of them it's a
neat way to support the show because you
don't end up hanging anymore but a small
percentage of your purchase goes for
supporting category 5 technology can
easily appreciate everyone who has done
that also make sure you go over to our
mobile site it's mcat 5.com he will be
able to check out the show there live as
well as listen live and check out back
episodes well that is amer cat5 TV
without any further delays CD and Jas
did I get a drumroll drumroll would be
great hey sed MJS they are a service
that basically speeds up your website
I'm gonna let them do the talking Ryan
and Thomas it's so nice to see you guys
thanks very much really nice to have you
here first of all I want to let's
introduce yourselves I see Ryan at the
top there we are on that this is kind of
interesting because today is the first
day kind of that the group conversations
for skype came out for free now
available so this is the kind of the
first experiment to get this thing going
so we've got any of you guys here you
pagan a little yeah kind of guinea pig
in a little bit it looks like it's work
is working out so seedy NJ yes what is
it oh great question um Thomas Oh me
what do you reckon they get away alright
so cdnas so a little bit of background
thomas and i have been building websites
together for almost a decade now and
right out of college we did a start-up
so probably one of the most valuable
things to come out of that startup arm
which is not funct is cdnas so way back
in the distant history of internet time
so early 2011 the only public sort of
free CDN around at that time was Google
Ajax libraries and what they did was
they hosted jquery and dojo and mootools
and that's awesome but we sort of were
using some smaller libraries at that
time for example underscore and back
burner were like all right guys would
you mind adding underscoring backbone to
your CDN and
in typical Google fashion there was
absolutely no response so it was about
that time that actually Amazon
CloudFront front had just been released
so it was sort of possible for you know
a small independent developer to access
this massive CDN so we thought hey you
know why don't we make our own so I'm
sure a whole bunch of other people had
that problem and here we are today so
interestingly enough though to create
our own CDN let's say I as an au zur
wanted to put my assets for my website
in to say you use cloud front as the
example well there are other advantages
to something like cdnas I'm going to
just kind of hit on cashing maybe we
should talk a little bit about that
before I move on though I already know
that there's a lot of viewers that are
probably going what what sorry what what
does all this mean basically your
website is you know it's code and we use
different libraries to build websites
with a popular one that the Ryan
mentioned there is called jQuery and
that gives us access to certain
functionality that allows you allows us
the website developers to do some pretty
cool things so that you're basically
your browsing experience is enhanced so
it could be anything as simple as a
drop-down menu to full user interface
and the user experience itself so
hosting those things on my own server is
going to pull resources from my own
server and if there are a hundred people
looking at my website all at once it's
pulling holds down a little bit yeah and
it slows things down and your user you
know the response time is going to be
slowed down so I can put them on s3 and
cloud front but what are what's the
advantage I mean I touched on cashing a
little bit thinking about CD NJ ass how
do you do things differently ok Thomas
how about ah get that one all right so
content distribution that way
essentially our crapola network has I
think it's about 24 different likes
worldwide locations the right one yeah
26 now in fact I think yeah so
essentially when you serve your files if
you had an American
you can put that file on your Americans
level and anyone from requesting it from
around the world would have to bring it
down to the American Civil the best part
of content distribution network is that
before anyone pulls it down it is copied
to 24 there's 24 different service and
when someone requests the bar from your
website will actually figure out the
closest location supporters bars for the
dead there's an edge location restored
in Australia and we can actually serve
your website from australia instead of
serving from united states for a show
which saved a lot of latency and a lot
of time for sure so big to take that and
kind of summarize that for the viewers
if God is watching in the Netherlands
for example and he goes to our website
he's going to actually be receiving the
assets through CD NJ ass from a server
that's more local to him than say our us
servers that's absolutely right and in
fact there's another benefit using a CDN
as well so browsers these days are
really smart and what they're going to
do is they're going to look at all of
this files they have to grab off the
server and they'll inspect the URL and
if the URL is something that they've
seen before what they'll actually do is
they'll have it in their cage which is
just basically a dump of all of the
assets that they've seen on other files
right and what they can do is if they've
seen that URL before they can pull that
asset or say jQuery out of their local
browser cache without even having to go
to the server so for example if our
friend in the Netherlands has been to
any other website that uses cdnas and
loads jQuery his browser will already
have that and so he won't even incur the
round trip plan to our edge location so
we're basically looking at instantaneous
response time say if i go to kristas
website and she's using jquery using the
cdnas kind of hosting platform and then
goes to category 5 TV and it loads it
from my computer so it's instantaneous
it doesn't have to get it through the
web that's awesome right yeah there's a
few there's a bit more complexity to it
these days chrome does some intelligent
guesses as to whether what's the reload
content or not and Firefox as well but
that's the general idea absolutely
very cool so the the fact is there are
other cdns out there I think about in
particular you mentioned Google and a
lot of people use google for jquery and
that's the example that we're using so
what sets cdnas apart from say Google or
Microsoft CDN services so I'll go riders
adoption fee and yes when we first
introduced it we actually set up the use
of what account it's back in the day was
a system for people to very full which
libraries a thing should be on a CDN and
we had this idea that we would try to
make it as a very collaborative and like
a community movement as opposed to a
sister company and so we had this huge
community movement and we had a lot of
loyola doctors in the first year and
over the last four years I think we you
know we have about 800 contributors a
year now sorry we have the 20 got the
tips wahwah dr sorry it was 800 I didn't
catch that part there it was 800 welcome
he be up in thoughtful cubed they all
get our reviewers to the project yeah
really so you guys aren't it no no no
it's a community and everything we have
it's probably a lot more than 800 people
to this what get up seems to record your
service and with that many people were
actually able to maintain a a good
collection of library so Google Google
actually Nia's at a library and lobbies
I believe may be a bit more now but
cdnas it's about 80 plus lively and we
keep them up today using creating i
don't couple and their thomas did you
say that you have more than 800
libraries versus Google's eight or ten
God correct Wow and we have a decent
response time for keeping the veggies
up-to-date we try very hard to make sure
it's in 24 hours but sometimes it's all
behind it could take up to a week for us
updated version sometimes but for the
major libraries tend to keep them up to
date and we have not only do we have
part-time contributors to the commons
and send the poor request on get help
occasionally so we have a few main
curators we call them essentially such
as Pete Cooper so I'll give a shout-out
to the last year p Cooper she just
another moderator Val to essentially has
been updating everything daily and
making sure what it is up to date and
another one is Drew sailing from
Australia how many know we know okay so
about 800 people are contributing to the
project we've got several hundred
libraries and I can I can attest to that
a recent experience that I had was I'm
learning to use bootstrap and I know
that's kind of silly because it's a
little you know we're on bootstrap 3 but
I'm old school so I'd like to make my
own my own stuff and so this is a way
for me to save some some time as I'm
programming a website so what did i do
is i went on two cdnas and i was
astounded at how many of the assets that
I required be at the library's be at the
CSS all minified mind you and all of
these supplemental plugins for
bootstrapping and bootstrap just being
an example there is a ton of available
stuff on CD njs for me to use to
increase the productivity you know of me
as a web designer but also produce the
speed or increase the speed of my
website through just the delivery
mechanism is there so with that many
libraries and understanding that you've
got so many people there maintaining
these how do you keep on top of say new
versions coming out or you know perhaps
with
you know there was a an exploit recently
with that with one of the video players
on html5 how do you address those kinds
of things like say a cross cross browser
scripting bug or whatever cross XML or
something like that yeah well I look
right here on a couple of the video and
I'm coming the auto-update yeah so to
give you a bit of a background so the
way we started this was we wanted it to
be completely open and transparent
process and so we're hosting it on a
platform called github so absolutely
everything you do you can see a complete
history of the project from it's very
inception right till now so what we've
done up until now is we've asked our
users to sort of tell us when they want
something to be updated so either we've
gone ourselves and manually pulled the
new version or we've waited for say
Robbie to come along and say hey guys
there's a new version of jQuery here's
the files I'd like you to add what we do
is we verify them against the official
source make sure that there's no
malicious content for example Robbie's
not trying to hack a whole bunch of
websites on cdnas sure and then we'll
merge that into the main project so that
worked fine for quite a few years but
now as we've said would sort of had 800
contributors in say the past year which
is a huge number of pull requests that's
that's many more than one pull request
every day so what we've done now is
we've said all right how can we automate
what we're doing how can we take the
manual process out of this and turn it
into tooling and that's that's what
Thomas's got to talk about he defers to
you Thomas but looks like better if
you're Mike has said has stopped working
there toma see I've needed my life oh
there we go here oh he muted it yeah so
here we go spending a lot of time even
with good people coming on to help us
out the project for like a lot of the
pod it's those a lot of that time so I'm
recently we've been experimenting with
ideas on how we can actually get
libraries up-to-date on seating there's
all the time so essentially real I'm
and it's quite easy to do but it's a
little bit problem problematic so now
first attempts out of it is that there's
the NPM registry which is ajs sort of
package manager and the NPM registry is
the guarantee place for start
downloading assets rubygems is
equivalent or even you could say like
Debian packages sure and other thing is
a lot of the projects are sitting guests
are also uploaded to mpm and MP am
revolves around offices of let libraries
pushing their source codes with yeah so
that's actually what we then get is a
bigger pond tree the firm of valid
packages uploaded by proper office which
we can actually pull down and trusted
chocolate sauce okay so we've been
enabling Karachi libraries on to the
idea so you just pull down from that
source and check every 15 minutes
essentially to see if there's an
inversion if there is bringing down
extracted and uploaded to the CDN very
devout roughly 100 libraries out that
address updated it sounds really similar
to say Linux repository kind of
methodology is that kind of the way that
you're distributing and keeping things
up to date yeah absolutely the law very
cool so obviously very well thought out
as far as the house Ed MJS works very
technical and you know so a lot of the
information you know some of us
understand some of us don't Thomas for
example I heard something about pushing
to the pushing a branch something along
those lines anyways inside thing
yeah it has gone and just got it okay
it's all good so my question so I'm an
end user okay so I'm not the guy who's
who's pushing out on github new packages
and things like that to keep you up to
date I'm Robbie Ferguson who's
programming a website and I need jquery
I'm used to downloading it to my server
and putting it into the jas folder and
linking to it now I hear about CDN JSI
here that is so much better you guys
have grown exponentially I want you to
talk about briefly about how many people
are using your service but what kinds of
fears do I have now if I'm hosting with
you what happens you know what's the
reliability do I have to worry about my
site breaking because i'm hosting assets
with somebody else and i'm doing so for
free how's this possible right so so
first of all in regards to the
reliability so the people or the company
handling our back-end infrastructure is
CloudFlare so essentially i mean they
host a huge number of very high-profile
websites they've been involved in a
number of DDoS mitigation attacks so
their network capacity is phenomenal and
so what they're doing is they're
providing this sort of their edge
locations for us in regards to growth
the growth has been phenomenal as well
so when we started back in 2011 we got
six thousand hits in the first month
were like wow this is crazy yeah so at
this level of growth we might have a
hundred thousand hits by the end of the
year so those those numbers have sort of
been and gone and very quickly and we're
up to billions of hits a month right now
used on over 150,000 websites and a
bunch of really big name websites for
example xbox calm is one of the users
yeah um I kinda lost track the other
questions which were that okay some of
us are confusing see ya I think
McDonald's leaving using PDS at one
point
that one ex-cons using sing jazz and pc
advisor in the UK is using city ideas so
I'm sorry madam our website to see ideas
also we have a trusted reputation at
this point the last four years we
essentially ever had any up until two
weeks ago we haven't had anything any
security concerns at all and we haven't
had any major down pods we haven't given
flight onibus end up time but i know you
had yeah that's um yeah and the as Ron
said complex network is just a little
bo-peep said we use CloudFlare here at
the show as well and it's been a
fantastic way for us to cut down you
know Wendy das has come it's a really
great way for us to be able to fort the
attacks so you know we have a lot of
faith in cloudflare here as well my
other question there for you ryan and
thomas from CD njs calm how is it that
you provide the service for free and you
know how does that work as a business
model for you guys rights so basically
CDN Jess well has always been completely
free and in fact open source the way we
originally did it was we hosted it on
Amazon Cloud front and we did some
projections than we said all right if we
get 10 million hits a month that'll be
about thirty dollars a month we can pay
that out of our own pocket but we very
rapidly blew through that sort of usage
so um at a later stage one of the early
JavaScript engineers at cloudflare sort
of noticed us and eventually cloudflare
approach just sort of a better
partnership about helping us deal with
bandwidth usage so what they've done is
they said hey guys we sort of have
massive network capacity and we have an
off spare capacity to host you guys for
about as long as you want to work with
us so that's been the situation for
about a year or two now at least okay
yep and and also a city in guess is it
kind of evolved into two projects at
once one we offer our CDN by pathways to
the possible CalFire but also it's going
to stand in two
like a package when I was a package
manager essentially so it's a big
selection of files and there's no reason
why anyone can't actually serve these
false because it's all open source do
elaborate the 10 spot like they should
have no libraries they can essentially
just upload city and ask to the c dm7
since angle gives for amazon or you can
get help and this has been the case
because we actually have problems in
China at the moment with CloudFlare
China's Great Wall terrible time
occasionally so what we've had is um
there's been Chinese open source
developers who have gotten contacted
caught that district you distribution
networks in China and actually have
unencrypted called pdanet CN and they
actually offer the Chinese marginal CD
in jail yeah I really have any official
and those without anything like this or
any products ship but they don't love
it's going five and people have their
merits idiots very that one that's
interesting is there documentation about
that particular issue because I as a
developer who is you know developing my
own program my show category five TV
into mainland China we run into the same
things you guys where the government
blocks Western content and so it becomes
a real problem for distribution and
getting our product out there so so it's
interesting to note that okay so cdnas
may have problems in China but we have a
way around it is there any documentation
available for that kind of thing or
absolutely we haven't actually put up
any notice the problem is that it does
work from China say that three days is
it worth each other it's very slow and
title oh it doesn't like it all right
and we actually haven't had enough
reports but not working at all and I've
had people say I was working on so a
little bit iffy there I guess we should
put up a statement though that just
issues in general yeah and pulse also in
regards to using this service in China
it's it's kind of like in our best
interest to trust cloud fled to
negotiate those concerns because they
have a vested interest in ensuring that
their millions of websites are
accessible in China and I'm sure as
professional
network operators they have the right
connections to be able to negotiate a
deal if any because trying to use sort
of like otherwise it's just a case of
trying to say one step ahead of the
Great Firewall of China like all right
they blocked this service then this
service then this service yeah it's kind
of a cat and mouse game ya know now
we've absolutely been there and we do
have a fair number of viewers who are
watching in China so let us know what
your experience is if you're in mainland
China i know you know i received emails
and a lot of you tend to use proxies and
and ways around this this particular
issue but it would be interesting to
note so but you guys are doing a great
job and you know it's a fantastic
service do you have any particular use
cases that are kind of interesting to
our viewers any particular services that
are using your service that you know
beyond just the scale but some
interesting use of your service anything
come to mind at all well there is a
little lime text plugin but which is
super cool yeah so it's basically just a
package that you can search cdnas on
search for whatever library you want and
drop it into your file and also there's
a similar thing for code pangea so yeah
there are great things to check out
Chris tears are depend sir I go ahead
Thomas is one third time that I by
chance diddle I thought nothing just
places where I'm not sure for the deal
succeeded but you can create you can put
HTML CSS the JavaScript in this little
blouse and it renders it and then you
can share it to anyone you want sure and
dance fiddle and curry pennsburg have
support the city in jail so you can load
a third straight to cydia and a lot of
developers actually use Cydia dance and
myself use it for prototyping when I'm
creating a quick page if I have to copy
go to back on website download the files
put on the folder on server folder it's
a lot smaller than if I'm just copy the
Dulce New Jersey well so i think i'm 5-4
so now users actually going use did
against adoption um we do have 180,000
redbud bigots off from one in 50,000
using it but a lot of people use it for
development sure
I don't have to host the library's
locally I don't have to find all the
files and accumulate them and we're
going to demonstrate as soon as we're
done here guys I want to show you at
home yeah I'd like to show you CD njs
just so you can see how easy it is to
find the libraries that you're looking
for we use jQuery as the example guys
how can we beyond obviously making
mention of cdnas and how great you guys
are we use the service so if you found
that over the past little while that
category 5 the website has gotten faster
and more optimized cdnas is a big part
of that moving our libraries off of our
own hosting we used to try to host
things on s3 same kind of thing going
through a cloud front and everything but
the cash thing comes into play where
you're still loading it from my s3
account every time that you you know as
soon as your cash is done you're not
getting it from a centralized source so
guys how can we support cdnas as a free
service I want to know what can we do to
really get you guys some attention well
that's in focus that we always love poor
request so if you have a bad let me be
up there and it feel free to come in
update for us yeah there you go it's an
interesting model that I can say you
know I really want to see the new
version of X application on CD NGS and I
can actually go on to github and I can
do that and that distributes it to the
entire infrastructure of cdnas that's
awesome absolutely and then you had
contributed as the cdnas project as well
so open source contribution points very
cool all right guys well it's CD NJ
ascom just as Ryan's footer there says
CDN Jas comm check them out we're gonna
take a quick look boys thank you so much
for being on the show nice to see you
and keep up the great work thanks very
much Robbie take care good night this is
category 5 technology TV you'll find us
online triple w category five dot TV I
want to really quickly Krista if I may
just show absolutely what CD njs looks
like here we're just gonna give you a
little preview of everything right just
kind talking about yeah CDN Jas comm
check this out really really easy to use
I mean we use jQuery as the example
right
a lot of us use jQuery it's a fantastic
library i used to use it off of the
Google CDN and then I realized that
there just wasn't a whole lot there as
Thomas was saying there's eight or ten
different libraries available so i type
in jquery and there's my jquery library
so it automatically defaults to the the
newest version minified if i click on it
it will take me to all these different
versions of jquery so if my program if
my web app or my website already
features jquery all i have to do to
change over to see dnj asses go here and
say okay well here's the minified
version of 2.1 point oh and i just copy
that to my clipboard i go back to my
website code and i replace the local or
other hosted copy of jquery with the
cdnas and then it's hope it's not that
yeah that's it that's all and then it's
pointing to this fantastic service that
as they were saying is based on the CDN
infrastructure of CloudFlare so it is
going to distribute you know if I'm in
the United States I'm going to get it
from a server in the United States if
I'm in Canada let me get it from a
server close to Canada if I'm you know
wherever you are you're going to get it
from an endpoint that is closer to home
so you're not getting the the same kind
of slow response times from those
libraries so fantastic work over at
cdnas recommend that you check those out
and those guys out and if you have any
questions for them interesting fact is
you can go over to see dnj Escom jump up
to community chat enter your name say
hello and there's Ryan there hey Ryan
that's all there is to it to getting a
hold of these guys so nice and easy so
CDN j/s com a drop-in replacement for
all of your libraries using javascript
CSS all that kind of stuff so great
stuff thanks guys
awesome awesome what do you think cheers
have a good night ready for it we've got
I heard that you've got some great news
stories we've got eco alkalines
batteries to give away I've got a full
year supply that I want to give away so
these could be yours so stick around
we're gonna have those in just a couple
minutes time reporting derful let's jump
in take it away alright folks here's the
top stories from the category 5 activity
newsroom a judge and the US has ordered
Microsoft to hand over a customer's
emails even though the data is held in
Ireland the company has attempted to
challenge the search warrant on the
basis that it that the information was
stored exclusively on computer servers
outside of the US Microsoft previously
said it planned to offer business and
government clients control over where
their data resided this followed
concerns about data privacy raised by
whistleblower Edward Snowden's leaks
about us spying but the ruling
potentially undermines at that pledge
the judge said warrants for online data
were different to other warrants the
search warrant which was issued to
Microsoft by us authorities sought
information associated with a member of
the public's email account including
their name credit card details and
contents of all messages microsoft said
it would continue to oppose the release
of the dublin stored data that's a
little bit a little bit on the ominous
side because i think there is a certain
and even the microsoft was basically
saying to their clients oh well we can
host it in ireland yeah and then it
can't be touched by the American
government and then the government steps
in and says oh yes it can what does that
in the old world just crashes down well
that's that raises some real concerns
and questions because I've always been
under the impression that being here in
Canada that we're a little safer from
those kinds of things you would be bang
well it cuz it's always say hosting
Canada because of the privacy laws here
being so strict you're you're you have
greater privacy at least you can use
encrypted storage so you know even if
the company handed it over its encrypted
did so it's useless to them but that
they can override those Geographic
barriers and say no you got to give it
up well that's a little bit scary what
do you think silence yeah why won't you
talk to me need to give you well Oh
what's this that looks like the heart
Billy bug and it has turns
cybercriminals from attackers into
victims as researchers use it to grab
material from chat rooms where they
trade data touche hackers don't you say
that discovered in early April her flea
let's attackers steal data from
computers using vulnerable versions of
some widely used security programs now
it is given anti-malware researchers
access to forms that would otherwise be
very hard to penetrate the news comes as
others warned that the bug will be a
threat for many years French
anti-malware researchers Steven K told
the BBC the potential of this
vulnerability affecting black hat
services where hackers use their skills
for criminal ends is just enormous
heartbleed had put many such forms in a
critical position he said leaving them
vulnerable to attack using tools that
exploit the bug well you would think I
maybe this is really naive of me that
you would think that hackers you can
protect yourself could it be the first
to know that it's time to upgrade open
SSL you would think maybe they're just
delusional or they just think they are
so good that nothing bad man what
happened to them but you think that now
we'd be like oh maybe I should upgrade
our server maybe they're old-school
hackers on their server is obsolete and
it's all just a bunch of diseases of
toasters and stuff put together no that
could very well be pieces of toasters
it's a possibility folks yeah yahoo has
announced two original TV series that
will be shown on its website and mobile
app it makes yahoo the latest technology
for him to joy the fat join the
fast-growing market for digital video
content yahoo said its first two
original series will be comedies titled
other space and sins
City Saints according to yahoo they have
received five hundred million video
views on yahoo screen in the US since it
launched launched its comedy lineup in
sorry on the website seven months ago
Cassie savin's there are 500 million
video views 500 million video views and
how many months seven months seven
months yeah that's pretty that's pretty
gross pretty good yeah really cool think
I'd be happy with that yeah I think so
you say I know so Kathy Savitt chief
marketing officer on yahoo said in a
statement we are continuing to build our
library with university universally
loved comedy such as Saturday Night Live
and Comedy Central yeah who said it's
two original series will also be
available to viewers on Apple TV and
Roku hey there you go well more content
for you Roku fans what's up man yeah
we'll see if it's any good of course
we'll be good likewise I mean yeah who's
programming no it's different obviously
popular man Wow yes Microsoft has warned
consumers that a vulnerability in its
internet explorer browser could let
hackers gained access and user rights to
their computer the flaw FX Internet
Explorer version 6 to 11 and microsoft
said it was aware of limited targeted
attacks to exploit it the US government
advised computers using users to
consider using alternative web browsers
until security fix is released while the
fix will soon be making its way to
Microsoft's new ver operating systems
the issue may be of special concern to
people still using Windows XP operating
system according to symantec this will
be the first zero-day vulnerability that
will not be patched for windows XP users
microsoft has suggested businesses and
consumers as still using the system it
should upgrade to a new or newer
alternative world and while you're using
a different browser you can just install
Linux yeah do something you know just
maybe stick with it now go back just
saying get real actually cut you off
that was really when I cut you off
hopefully we'll talk you guys can get
the full story at category 5 TV /
newsroom
category five dot TV news room is
researched by roy WN at risk with
contributions of our community of
viewers if you have a story that you
think is worthy of on-air mention you
can email us at news room at category 5
TV for the category 5 TV news room i'm
krista walls thanks Krista my thought is
that here we are as the 29th of April it
is so it was 29 it is sorry good 21 days
ago that microsoft windows XP 21 days
and there is already that first exploit
that is severe enough that you cannot
continue running this OS 21 days later
and it's already happened this is that
serious we knew it was coming so it's
the matter of time just a matter of 21
days ok we are working on our latest
music video it's so exciting and we want
you to be able to submit your your clips
for our music video I think that would
be a lot of fun so pretty cool we've
extended the deadline by what is it one
week by one week so next tuesday is the
new deadline so all you have to do is
get over to my blog it's bald nerd calm
and you're going to find a whole bunch
of information there about how to get
your video in for our for our music
video yes we had a lot of fun shooting
some of the music video on saturday did
we ever is a blast thanks ok it's fun
i'm just waiting for you to say yeah no
yeah it was trying to make it awkward i
think i succeeded ok tillery succeed
well to prove how much fun it was i've
started working on the video started
working on the production it's not by
any means complete so this is a rough
cut is a rough cut I may actually change
the music as well but just to give you a
brief idea as to how things are going
with the the video production how things
are coming together
here we go actually pretty good it's
looking pretty good i'm glad that entire
clip for this all christian uber awkward
sorry my lips get onto my blog at bald
at nerd dot-com what a guy you can send
in your clips okay I've got a year
supply of eco alkalines batteries to
give away check these out now they are
eco alkalines calm is where you're going
to find those it's a full year supply
and here we go for the Eco alkalines
batteries one year supply ballots were
cast through Facebook through our
website category 5 TV nice to see so
many new faces and good luck to
everybody for the year supply of eco
alkalines environmentally responsible
batteries there is 0 % cadmium lead or
mercury outlines batteries that means
that they are landfill safe we choose to
still recycle them because they do have
metal and might as well do art that way
as well but these will not leak harmful
chemicals into the earth they are carbon
neutral that means that their carbon
footprint is zero the winner tonight is
Brian mayor
congratulations to Brian
you are the winner of a year supply of
eco alkalines batteries there they are
this is not a year supply that's this is
these are the batter these are some of
the batteries you just have to be very
careful what you use them for yeah so
last full year there you go so I gotta
do Brian and set pop us a quick email
live at category 5 TV with your full
shipping information address sometimes a
courier likes especially with something
heavy like batteries they're going to
like to have your phone number as well
so please include that live a category 5
TV congratulations to Brian and thank
you to everyone for sending in your
ballots tonight and thanks for tuning in
to category 5 technology TV and for
liking eco alkalines on facebook they're
great if you haven't already done so
head on over to their website eco
alkalines com find out more about them
you'll also see the link for their
social media profiles make sure you like
them on Facebook follow them on Twitter
and make sure you say hi to them for us
great bunch of people over there at you
cooperate yeah that's right we have a
whole bunch of new viewers oh yeah yeah
really surprised gonna say hello all
right we have Racing racing welcome hey
welcome to the show I think this one is
supposed to say click it at Dave welcome
mr. naturopathy hell yeah welcome to the
show Jay Lester hey Jay oh we have Roku
3 lover Oh Pete puters haters chea owl
welcome ciao shadow shadow R Parrilla
welcome I like your name just amazin
hello I like that uh Queen L welcome oh
and then uh let's try the hard one rolla
land card jr. I'm sure if we had some
punctuation it would be easier it's
probably a legit word and I'm just you
know but your net yeah I then lastly we
have duly at jlt welcome everybody
welcome to the show hey if you haven't
already registered get over to triple w
category five dot TV you can sign up
there it's absolutely free and be a part
of this exciting community
here at category 5 technology TV want to
also take a quick look at our viewer
location map say hello to Mexico City
who else have we got phoenix next nice
to see you in prescott just north of
there in toronto ontario and I CSF a
Larry they're also cherry hill in
Philadelphia area Atlantic City there
Seattle over there nice to see out
Washington loads of viewers tuning in
tonight from all around the world
through Roku through our website
category 5 TV on YouTube all around the
world nice to have you joining us thank
you for tuning in to category 5
technology TV we've got your viewer
questions and I would love to see if we
can answer a few of those questions for
you tonight thanks for sending the men
live at category five dot TV looks like
we got some fans in Warsaw as well
thanks for joining us excellent all
right just trying to find an awesome
question they're all awesome all awesome
oh right here is one me make my mouse
Berg it is from buddha belly hey you
buddha belly question wednesday i was
looking for content to add to my roku
and found your channel yay i decided to
watch a couple episodes to see if i
liked it of course you did of course
after watching if you like I'm honored
to my fans in hela and three half-days
55 episodes in three and a half years
sleep I'm sorry are your eyes bloodshot
probably how my hours are there in three
and a half days 24 x 3.5 is 84 how about
an hour takeaway thug I've done only
gave you twenty nine hours to sleep do
you like your dedication yeah we do
thank you for making a lot entire Wow
three days yes 55 hours of video cool
all right it says I decided that when I
grow up I want to be just like Robbie
that's the good work should be a little
more specific yeah mm-hmm do you want me
even read the question you just want to
throw in that glowing rearming let's
just stop at I want to be just like
Robbie how many people say that I mean
besides your kids so far 11
you said at once but you were me buzz I
sarcastic you were very sarcastic Wow
thought maybe I said sometimes gonna
regret for a minute okay Oh Buddha belly
says after watching the Afro mention
episodes i decided to load point linux
and virtualized my windows 7 ultimate
install i want to keep it because i have
adobe cs6 master suite installed and the
best app that microsoft ever coated one
note i have 2 6 40 gig by USB two
passports and a two terabyte usb3
passport ultra how do they interact with
the two os's okay well info that i store
when in linux over at my windows apps or
data can i do a non-destructive
partitioning and use them with both os's
if you talk about this topic in general
it'd be awesome hmm okay so you're still
thinking along the lines buddha belly of
physical computers because windows is
not going to be able to read ext3 ext4
and write to them right unless you know
you hack it and install some drivers and
it can cause damage to the drive and
blah blah blah similarly ntfs drives
you're not going to install linux on
ntfs you can read and write to ntfs no
problem but you're not going to install
linux on ntfs that's just poor
performance it's a it's you know
fragments another thing with your
virtual machine here's where we just got
to change the way that we think about
our operating systems because remember
that that is virtual hardware so that
means if your linux computer the host
has access to one of those passport
drives these external hard drives and
you format it as ext4 ext3 whatever it
is it's a Linux file system right now of
course windows natively if you plug that
into a physical windows computer
wouldn't be able to read it well now
hold on it's not a physical windows
computer it's a virtual machine right
running through linux so as long as
linux can see the hard drive it can then
virtualize the hard drive to the virtual
machine and the virtual machine will not
know the difference windows 7 will just
think it's another hard drive so the way
that i might approach that is i would
connect it to my host and then i would I
probably I might
work it and share that and then I'd use
the the virtual machine to access it
through what the virtual machine thinks
is a network in fact it's on the same
computer it's just connecting through a
samba share on your linux machine
virtualbox also includes the ability to
add shared folders that are not actually
Samba shares but the windows guests will
think it's a samba share or you know
where you go slash slash dot host /
share name you'll be able to access
those drives again through a mapped
drive and then you'll be able to write
to them as ext3 ext4 directly from your
your windows virtual machine and then
you never have to worry about
compatibility I hope that helps but yeah
it's just getting out it outside of that
thought process of thinking that the
virtual machine is going to behave
exactly like a physical machine because
we're so used to oh it has to be ntfs no
it doesn't because it's it's virtual you
could create a vmdk file on one of those
passports a virtual hard drive file and
mount it to your virtual machine and
treat it just like a you could even
format that file is ntfs it's wild so
much potential on what you can do a
virtualization so cool good luck have
fun that's what it's all about and keep
a backup you've got three external hard
drives you got room right good stuff
how'd you meet her obvious name all
right here's a question from Tennessee
Frank hey you ten see frank says i
recently moved from kali linux one point
06 to point lenox three-point oh be one
that right cool now that debian testing
has GQ RX for software-defined radio and
it's repos but i'm having a problem with
j GW g GI e di GW package manager yes
packages feller not for ya it's not
working with debian testing i have quite
a few deb packages i need to install but
can't because of the problem any idea
how i can either fix gee sorry GW or
what alternative i can use to install
some dead packages i would for the dog
packages that's a debian distributable
installer if you can't get it through
the repositories
then you you're going to need to use the
Deb pack but I would try to get it from
a repository first I'm not sure about
the application itself but then I would
jump into the terminal and wherever
you're Deb package is really really easy
is to just go dpkg space dash I for
install and then filename de be and that
will actually install your Deb pack
directly from the DVD file using the
command line depending on yours your
setup you probably with point Linux
you're probably going to need a pseudo
so you become superuser before you run
that command and then just add the the
deb file name so that should work for
you let us know but of course that means
if you've installed it with a Deb pack
you are going to have to update the
package every time there's a new version
it's easier a little more simple to
instead install that through a
repository find a repository that will
work and and then install it through apt
or through synaptic package manager that
way as updates or rolled out you will
get the updates automatically that's
kind of a bonus feature of Linux grief
thanks for the question uh here's a
comment from David and Lorrie Holbrook
says David hi Laurie good to see you on
roku love the show can't wait to show
you with my turkey friend who I can't
wait to hear attention that's Robbie's
people you're right now get along with
everybody I try but techie friends
especially love them love them yeah
thanks for the email and glad you're
catching the show on roku enjoy a
question from thorny oh how could I
regain my IRC nickname I have forgotten
my password and I cannot remember what I
did to register it can you please help
ok so I'm assuming that we're talking
about the category five I think chat
room so we just have to back up a little
bit and understand how does this
chatroom work so this chat room is in
fact a channel on a server called
freenode it's an online IRC service and
they provide chat service over the
Internet Relay Chat pro
IRC so if you've forgotten your password
it's surprisingly easy to get it back
there's something that happened when you
registered with Nick serve okay if
you've registered you know that you did
that if you registered with Nick serve
you gave them your email address so all
that we need to do is bring up the
category 5 technology TV chat room and
the reason that we're going to do that
is because then we know that we are
connected to freenode because that's
where we're hosted now type / join which
is the command to join another chat room
we're going to type in pound which is to
designate we're about to type in the
name of a chat room now we're going to
type in free node that is the official
chat room of the freenode chat service
so if I hit enter there now you'll see
that a new window is popped up at the
top here a new tab I should say and it's
called pound freenode if I click on that
you'll see there are currently 1300
people talking at this time many of
these people are in fact staff of
freenode they have the resources the
power the control the magic button to
send a password reset email to your
registered email address so all you have
to do is in this chat room type in could
an opp please because we use our manners
send me a password reset email for the
username Robbie f that's my registered
user name right as soon as i hit enter
on that watch and somebody's going to
reply and they're going to say oh yeah i
can do that for you you've got your
email and you're going to get an email
that has your reset switch a little bit
different because you're used to
websites where you've got to click a
button and then enter your information
there's no interaction these are real
people really here to help you so there
you go it's all you need to do going to
freenode awesome thanks for the question
hope that helps we have time for one
more sure do all right ah question from
Landsman I have no idea i do even look
at the clock I never get high Rob lamps
man I asked you a question last Tuesday
about installing a kodak printer printer
driver on linux
yes as an able to be online during the
show because my work schedule has
changed at the last minute and I was
working during your show that's
unfortunate I could not find the
original website where I download the
file however the name of the file is
something like that name oh yeah okay
and it is attached there are a couple
different websites that have this file
available this is one of them it's
packages org I you may sign it into my
computer if you wish no that's cool
teamviewer is an amazing product to
allow us to connect in and understand
that you're not able to be here Lance
man tonight live so connect with me
you've got my phone number it's on our
website category 5 don t be right at the
bottom to 545 cat5 TV give me a call
we'll set something up but basically
from what I've heard and you know some
people on YouTube have made the comment
I've got a couple of emails about your
questions saying that the kodak printers
just simply are not officially supported
on linux that's Kodak's fault that's not
linux is fault okay that's Kodak being
Kodak and that's just what it is I
suggest the you know if I always
recommend brother printers they work
fantastically well on Linux their
excellent product and and we just we use
them here the show we love them so if
you're in if you're thinking about
shopping around for printer grab a
brother printer they are gonna work out
of the box on Linux perfect for yours we
need to go through third-party drivers
and things like that because they're not
officially developed by Kodak like
brother develops brother actually gives
you linux drivers for your printer great
easy C ups files done kodak done do that
so you got to go out hunting and try to
find it so you gangster I'm totally
gangsta yo that huh gangsters talk I
don't know I'm scared cuz there might be
gangsters watching smile um I know we
started a couple months late so maybe
you can just do a quick run through this
he also just kinda wants to know how to
sign into the chat room which might be
good for maybe some people sure how to
just onto category 5 on freenode if you
go to our website category five dot TV
just real quick
here let's bring it up category five dot
TV and go to interact and chat room when
we go there there are a couple of
different options okay chat room there
we go we use our web chat which is
really really easy use your own
application which is what I do when I
you see pigeon up there or help go to
help you will actually launch a video
and that will actually walk you through
how the information you need in order to
get up and running otherwise go use our
web chat type in your name dude man 3
and then type in the CAPTCHA three two
three nine nine five two and hit connect
easy easy yeah I'm done hello we are
and so then if I go back here you'll see
a dude man actually I like height is
deep man 3 cuz your might be able to I
figured that there might be dude man you
got just heard I mean that's just a
really great grab it up there you go
Hayward complete at a time we are how'd
that happen there's just too many good
things on the show too many amazing
great things thanks for hanging out with
us tonight everybody i hope you enjoyed
yeah do check out CD njs congratulations
to our winner of equal OPP lines
batteries check them out eco alkalines
com thanks to them for providing the
prize for us tonight in lieu of birthday
last week and a little something to help
you go green don't forget they're
available in your major stores so check
around I don't know what stores are
local to you where you are around the
world why can't say I want to go out
lines you have o'clock lines please and
if they don't say get them cause I'm not
shopping here anymore
have a great week everybody next week is
an exciting time because we were going
to have to Erica lalonde is going to be
sitting in this desk and crystal else is
gonna be all the way over there yeah
over there and she's gonna be fielding
your questions in the chat room just to
try to get some make sure that we're
able to cover the chatroom very very
well so pretty excited about that and
it's been a great time make sure you get
us an email to get some questions live
at category 5 got that thanks mister
thanks everybody have a wonderful we
will see you next Tuesday night we hope
you enjoyed the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
