I wouldn't mind going back a little bit
over what we covered last week now Sasha
is building a supercomputer a super
gaming computer yeah we'll say super
cool super gaming computer it's going to
be awesome now last week we learned what
your vision was what your budget was
what the kind of criteria is that you're
looking for with the gaming system let's
just really quickly go over and review
what we've established so far so we've
got a budget of around twenty one
hundred dollars to build a super sleek
super smashing fast beautiful gaming
computer right but let me tell you it's
hilariously similar to what my entire
wedding budget is it's going to be
amazing
okay we're talking Canadian dollars
Canadian dollars yes it's about four
dollars u.s. Hardware criteria here's
what we have so far over the forum cat5
dot TV slash cpu 2017 we are going to go
with a full-size Tower that's fine we
need HDMI output for an existing 4k
60-inch television rack it's got to be
fast and future-ready the chassis has
got to be sleek and beautiful LEDs and
visual appeal or something that are
Malik important to me okay
the chassis has got to have some front
end USB 3.0 ports yeah we're looking at
probably raid one for file storage for
redundancy if the budget allows
otherwise maybe just a single spinning
hard drive and probably an SSD for the
operating system to keep things fast
we're going to talk a little bit about
that today as you start picking out our
products okay it's going to be Linux
compatible because that's what we want
on there as far as OSS go a wireless
keyboard and mouse it's going to be
possibly we talked about now the ability
to add oculus rift or something like
that so maybe future ready enough that
you could add something like that down
exactly might be something for a couple
years or something from now if this
thing lasts our anniversary sure yeah
you know it can be a happy anniversary
here you go some goggles
yeah antisocial wouldn't it if you know
DVR
yeah but don't we damn sure there's a
way you can do up your cast right you're
in the same room but you're in VR
walking through a meadow shooting
zombies that was you kind of like our
dad for how I visualize virtual reality
that's what I think it is okay so
software wise we want to go with
something that is Linux based not too
big of a stretch from Windows as far as
the interface goes but some eye candy
would be great right exactly I want it
to look amazing where people who come
over like what is that I want it to be
like intuitive enough that right it's
not going to get thrown to a window nice
other than that you don't need a monitor
yeah because you're going to use the TV
correct okay so we got to get into it
it's going to take a little bit of time
as we get into this now it's a fun
series for you if you've ever if you've
never built a computer sastras actually
be doing this with our own two hands
we never before it yeah well you've done
the Raspberry Pi right that's true like
one circuit board put it in a case that
the cover on your done son no computer
this will be my second rock phone this
is my second computer build yeah you
wait but okay that episode's going to be
a long one we're gonna have to shoot on
a Saturday speed things up a little bit
so don't how hard could it really be
like heart is not the word it's
time-consuming it's something that takes
patience because it takes meticulous I'm
going to answer this question in the
future for myself but I feel like it's
kind of like everything just clicks into
place like you open it up oh is that how
computers work yeah they're made of Lego
these days kind of you open it up and
like it's very clear we're like this
just slides in there until you hear a
click and then you take the wires from
it and you just drag it over to the next
thing and you just plug it in I'm just
thinking back to our conversation
yesterday where some cables were plugged
into the Raspberry Pi that was not me
I know but I'm just saying just because
it fits Sasha
you can't just jam it in there this is
I am doing it with a yeah clearly a lot
of witnesses and not just witnesses but
collaborators no part of the fun of the
series folks is that you get to help
Sasha choose what we're going to do and
that's what we're doing tonight okay so
chat room be ready for it if you're
watching this on demand after the fact
make sure you comment below or head on
over to the forum again cat5 dot TV
slash cpu 2017 now first the gate Garbi
wants to know if it seriously doesn't
matter about the chassis size like what
happens if it's a couple inches this way
or that way and it doesn't fit anymore
like what doesn't fit the chassis
doesn't fit in the room in the room and
then oh yeah okay so it's going beside
we should have taken a picture of my
living room but it's going beside the TV
stand right in the corner of the room
it's gotta be is on like a like a a big
open or something it's on like a glass
stand so there's right and it's quite
open in that area and there's like a I
would say that there's like 12 square
feet of space I could take up really
like I'm not going to but yeah that's
how much space I actually have we're
doing a water tank a fish tank computer
built mineral water and I do have a lot
of space I can use so it is okay very
cool and that's good
should we jump on a Linden asked at the
end of the show last week and we missed
it on the air I believe do we need to go
with an i7 or higher or can we just go
with an i-5 what is that that's the
processor the cpu that's the brains of
the computer the thing that does all the
work for processing okay so what would
the difference be between an i7 plus or
and i-5 just slower slice it depends on
the model there's like the k-series of
the i7 the unlocked so an i7 K series
can be overclocked so you can get it
faster than the stock settings but
essentially why I would lean toward the
i7 especially when they are you know
there are some i7 processors that are
going to be fairly close in price to i-5
i 5s are in my opinion in my view
kind of they're great for laptops i
threes are great for laptops because
they're more energy efficient they don't
they don't drain the battery as fast
because they're missing some of the
features so the key one with the i7 that
I want in this computer is
hyper-threading oh that means
essentially the programs have more
threads to be able to work with when
they're processing information and doing
things that sounds good it sounds real
good and a lot of your your games and
things will probably be able to utilize
that oh we I would go that way just
because of that so if the budget allows
certainly I mean we're not going to do
the i9x series that that was just kind
of a joke that would be nice but you're
looking at a $2,000 processor just the
one chip right we're gonna stay away
from that but an i7 K series would
probably be a really good one we don't
even have to go K series because they
may not even overclock think is them
that option again thinking future ready
right so garbage shows it to look at the
HW leaderboard the hardware leaderboard
ok this is over at PC per duck erm
can I bring that up yeah ok PC / comm /h
w lb for hardware leaderboard ok so
let's get a look at what what you're
recommending here ok so this kind of
stuff is cool because other folks have
done the work sash right and they've
figured out hey what's going to work
well what's going to play nicely and
they've done exactly what we wanted to
set out to do and figuring out okay well
what does a dream system cost sorry oh
here I have just a comment in the chat
room I want to just like touch on
because maybe we do it wrong at home
because the food says that they would
never put a real computer in the same
room where they're watching TV or movies
but I like with cooling because right
but I turn my computer off not while
you're watching a movie from it well not
when I'm watching movie from in no but
then I would turn up the stereo sandwich
when you're driving over 7.1 yes yeah
yeah ok add that to the feature request
box 7.1
so but yeah you just turn up the noise
of the TV sure I think we should
probably add to the list that this
baby's got to be fairly quiet yeah like
it's in my living space camp and you
want it to be a centerpiece you want it
to be out in the open where you can see
it you don't want to put it in a closet
and run an HDMI cable to it exactly I'll
be doing it is the piece
okay so quiet quiet isn't it there are
fans fans are much much cheaper than
liquid cooling liquid cooling is going
to bump up the cost but it works very
very well the cooler the cooler your
computer runs the faster it can run
right and the liquid cooling is no noise
at all very little there's a pump and
the pump draws the liquid over top of
all the peripherals and then it goes
through like a carburetor and it's like
an air conditioner for your computer
okay so it's quite quiet so so that's
but they do make fans that are quiet -
okay but fans are huge you've got to
worry about that airflow liquid cooling
you don't have to worry about air flow
right and part of liquid cooling is it
can be very very sleek because you don't
have to have a great big hundred twenty
millimeter fan with a great big heatsink
something really really tiny and a
couple LEDs on it look at that okay okay
so back to back to this hardware leader
board I love this idea because they've
already done some of the pricing so
3,300 bucks for the dream system which
is going to be an i-9 CX series so what
are they saying that processor is worth
I don't know if it shows pricing I nine
basically the top-of-the-line Intel
processor Ram I'm not sure where you see
the individual pricing on this site I'm
not familiar with but I love the idea of
garvey thank you for showing it to us a
high-end system they're recommending a
Rison processor from AMD I I tend to
want to lean toward Intel I've had
really good really good experiences with
all things Intel but I have had
that experiences with AMD okay
whether or not that's really an issue I
don't know we're going to we're going to
get into that and I want you to give you
our feedback what do you think should we
be looking only at Intel the FEU wants
us to look at some cpu benchmarks right
it'd be good oh there goes $2,600 for
that particular processor sash you
imagine so if you buy the process after
you get everything else for free yeah
right you just have a single chip you
can't do anything with right until you
buy all the other stuff it's got it
all right so forget about that all right
let's look at what the Fuu is telling us
to do look at the CPU benchmarks there's
going to be a good one HTTP colon slash
slash CPU bench
did I put a B no bench mark net dots um
net yeah okay high-end and CPUs dot HTML
feel like a blast from the past with an
HTML extension okay so what does this
tell us
ooh benchmarks Tasha faster at the top
equally expensive 2,700 bucks for that
processor so I'm guessing no they've got
the thread rippers here they've got the
I 970 900 X so this is this is current
this is nice nice it definitely and it's
not going to give us everything we need
to know but it tells us some important
information one of the things the food
said last week is hey you know what a
good starting place to to go is is to
say how much should we want to spend on
the processor you get two three four
hundred dollars and then work your way
around that so if we say it's a $300
processor let's find the best one for
that price and then pick the motherboard
and the other panels based on that we're
going to pick the RAM based on the
motherboard we're going to pick the
harddrive based on the motherboard that
kind of stuff so the processor is like
the main thing you build around all room
it's the brain one chip on the on the
motherboard okay it does all the
stinking right so looking at our
benchmarks it tells us which ones are
considered the fast
so let's say $300 is our budget or there
abouts because our aim is $2,100 to hold
alone so we need today now the processor
is only one component so I'm scrolling
scrolling scrolling that benchmark is
going down there's one for 358 it's an
Intel Core i7 68 50k so that's the
unlocked processor and looks like it's
on par with the intel xeon e5 60 1660 as
far as speed goes and it's $1,300
cheaper so that's good
68 50k which is obviously stepped down
from say the seventy nine hundred but a
thousand dollars cheaper or more so
let's look at the Intel i7 68 50k on
let's say Amazon so the way that we want
to do that is go to category five dot TV
mm-hmm and on our website we go support
us shop with our partners and then
amazon.ca is the one that i want to use
and that's all there was to it so you
see what it does is it adds a little tag
up there which is different for each
each click so make sure you don't just
copy it and paste that it's something
that you need to go into our site so I'm
going to paste in there what does that
cost us on Amazon 630 bucks
that's our Canadian dollar folks there's
a big part of our budget
there our viewers also you know when
people on Amazon it shows you like a
list of other things they looked at this
and they bought that yes yeah baby
that's one of the reasons I love Amazon
okay so and that's what I want to look
at down here is okay well here's some
other stuff
can I see what other people have bought
having looked at this one let's see I
mean look at the ratings on that hey if
you had an extra budget then that's
pretty sleek what did people buy does it
tell us no it's not going to give us any
options okay so we're going to have to
step down from the from the 6850 so
let's go back to our benchmarks
and see what the next I seven processor
is why don't I just do a search for i7
and I highlight the i7 for me and now I
can just kind of scroll down well
there's a lot of them so that one's 23
56-49 329 4 6800 which I'm not sure if
that's going to be accurate or not so
little step down from the one we were
looking at 6800 K for 419 so that's not
too far off mm-hmm any feedback from our
chat room hey get on to their category 5
on freenode sash is kind of watching
that and watching the screen at the same
time what else can we do here you find
this interesting fact I'm you decided
that you wanted to take on right so yeah
and this is the process the process is
figuring out I love this folks the food
thank you for the benchmark this really
helps you to get a sense because the
numbers can be tricky this is the thing
well this is why I wanted to take it on
here with everybody here helping because
I really wouldn't know I would literally
just will have to walk into a store and
say okay I want to buy a computer and
then I would just buy it and I haven't
learned anything there's not really a
lot of love I mean there's love in the
intent but there's not really a lot of
love put into it you've built you're
going to build a system the 7700 K from
Intel looks like it's a reasonable price
according to that benchmark I was going
to punch it in the Amazon here session
and see what it says
404 so hey that's you know it's still
400 bucks so what why don't we and is
that one for a little bit of a better
price hmm No
okay so we want the seventh gen 7700 K
let's pretend and let's find the best
price we can on Amazon ap 600 vp9 and
the chatroom said any interest in a PU
which is CPU and graphics in one chip
yeah we don't need that I guess that is
an advantage to some of these i7 chips
but we're going to be putting a PCIe
card in there anyways which is your
Nvidia card Oh
ethics right we don't need the
integrated graphics at all okay perfect
what is the 7600 K because Amazon says
it's only 279 that's well in line with
the budget so 70 what did I say 7600 Sam
yeah it is up there with with the i7
3770 not sure is it worth is it worth it
what was the one I was looking at the i7
7700 K how big of a step down are those
so the 7700 k OC now I'm all like
attached to the bigger verse but for
what you did to me as a consumer the big
colors bars right they start out like
all the way across oh my god I don't
know let's move it up there another
hundred bucks for the bigger bar I need
a little mid bar
you know I don't want the mini so
without pain without being at all
unreasonable right let's start a start a
building our shopping list here based on
the higher end of the price range that
we're going for so what I mean by that
is we're going to add the 7700 K right
now and then build around that and see
what it comes to because if that works
then fantastic you get a bit of a better
processor and a fairly fairly good
amount better and if it doesn't work if
it ends up me active yeah okay let's do
that we're not going to be unreasonable
we're not going to add the i9 but let's
add the Intel Core i7 7700 K and again
all of this stuff is being accumulated
and added to the forum cat v dot TV
slash CPU two zero one seven before we
go further can I read Albuquerque turkey
address in a comment yeah I'm going to
take some notes here okay so it sounds
like you're itching to spend lots of
Sascha's bucks or loonies whichever you
guys call on carp flage computer for
session days a turkey like
Albuquerque TRG would have a much
sharper pencil be that as it may just a
couple of things for you and Sasha to
consider okay please tell her to
carefully measure the computer they have
now we have covered this okay computer
size is aligned told to tell you so
carefully measure it I will carefully
measure it okay what if the super duper
new one is an inch wider two or three
inches taller or deeper tomorrow right
that much that's exactly what what we
were saying earlier yeah if the
motherboard is e a t x size the case
might have to be a couple inches deeper
also is a room to have a few inches of
clearance on the rear for ventilation so
a wrist and a couple of fingers can
reach around to add a cable or gizmo or
two I would rather have all of the
gizmos and cables and stuff loaded in
the front end not the back if it if we
can do that like I'd rather most like
just a power cable and stuff to out the
back but I want like any USB or any
connections and stuff that I would be in
a front end back okay and hidden stuff
underneath like cable management chassis
would help hide all the wires so you
don't see them that would be nice yeah
okay my and leave room for the
occasional dust bunny back there Mike
the new computer impinge on the traffic
pattern that could be bad for toes or
shins in the dark of night it's actually
in the corner of the room it's the the
tower where it is now is perfect I will
take a picture lest I forget a bunch of
inexpensive fans would be wonderful even
if you get a water cooler a large gaming
case would likely have room for two 120
millimeter fans in front the side panel
might have room for one the back panel
might come with an exhaust fan but it
might be a smaller size a water cooler
would probably have two or three fans
somewhere if you have lots of fans they
can run slowly and quietly huh that is
smart
no a true pessimist like say me would
also worry about the water cooling this
is awesome
out there in the Northwoods what happens
when temperature drops to its customary
20 below zero and the power goes out on
a weekend fashion day for a hundred
miles away is a liquid actually
antifreeze like automobile antifreeze or
might've you just plain water it would
freeze easily at minus 20 Fahrenheit
that would not be a good thing my pipes
would burst LCS is is antifreeze
oh is it hmm oh cool yeah it's like a
green coolant ooh
graphics card the power you guys have it
on terror comes from where Quebec no
problem those Quebecers sell them as
much time as you need a fancy graphics
card can draw over 200 watts or more
just for that one component on the other
hand cost to our power supply as well
yeah okay so it'll help keep the chill
off the room in the 10 or 11 months of
Arctic winter and Barry
so graphics card heats up the house so
what happens I would get an LCS graphics
card as well as we can if not then
something that's got a big heat sink and
some fans hang they can get a little
noisy depending on what you're doing
okay what are the specs for the 4k
television beyond resolution refresh
rate if the TV is limited to say 60
Hertz the graphics card won't have to
work as hard if it can do 200 or 240
Hertz that would be fantastic but keep
the fire extinguisher handy so if that
matters then the TV specs well yeah
because what are you saying it like do
you have a 3d TV or is it just standard
like 60 Hertz 30 frames 60 frames a
second I don't know do you use 3d
glasses yes so you're looking at 120
frames per second 60 I don't use 3d
glasses all the time only yeah but so
your TV is capable at 120 frames a
second easy so if you want that kind of
quality your TV is capable of it so we
could throw a card on there that is
capable of it as well so I could play 3d
from the computer to the TV yeah I guess
you could I don't do other computer
games that use that technology I guess
so I'm guessing so let's say like if I'm
playing a movie or something could I I
don't know from the computer it's a 3d
I've never ever done that I don't have
that kind of television or power we
don't have yeah we don't have kids what
I add
yes when I added therefore from
Alburquerque turkeys email was cable
management being able to hide away the
wires just to maybe have that brief
discussion and got me thinking there
Albuquerque Turkey we should throw a fan
controller in there there's just a cheap
little dial that you can turn down the
speed of the fan that is smart
hmm so you can make it super quiet while
still spinning and Friday probably
enough to keep it cool doings like
downloading something overnight not that
that happens anymore since I was like 13
when it downloads for one song
silly the Creator up okay so we know
we're going to start building this thing
around a 7700 K until processor so folks
it's up to you to get on to Amazon or
your favorite site for buying computer
peripherals and let's start building
around that so we're looking for a
motherboard
what kind of kingston ram we can throw
at it because I'm thinking we're
definitely going to want to go with
Kingston we want reliability we want
good bang for the buck and you know 16
to 32 gigs of ram would be just fine and
and I was also thinking this week you
know should we go with an m2 instead of
standard SSD like over SATA channel SATA
is the the bus or aka the connector for
the hard drive and it's not a hard drive
anymore because that means they're
spinning parts and called a solid-state
drive or SSD okay so I saw the state
drive connected to the same bus that the
old spinning hard drives used was
considered super fast six gigs per
second right okay now you can get what's
called an m2 it does away with the SATA
controller completely uses the PCIe bus
and now you get four times that speed so
the hard drive itself the solid-state
drive is a chip attached to your
motherboard that runs that up to two
gigs
no not two gigs to two is it two
terabytes per second a lot something
crazy 2000 gigabytes or something like
that I don't know my math sucks today
but it's four times faster anyway it's
going to be super super sleek okay so
I'm wonder if m2 would be the way to go
that's what I'm thinking
okay so get your comments in yeah that's
really it eh any other comments after
that we should bring up as because this
is kind of the final phase of hey next
week we're going to be looking back at
all the notes we're going to be saying
okay here's what we're what we're going
to get we're doing these are our final
answers because it's like crunch time
here the wedding September night not
that it needs to be done by September 9
no because that would be crazy get your
your thoughts in its cap 5 dot TV slash
CPU 2017 now I'm doing my best to kind
of grab all your comments from all the
different places where people are making
notes and posting comments but that I
tend to make mistakes if I do that so if
you can put it on the forum that would
be probably ideal because then it
centralizes everything to one spot and
of course that's also where we're
posting all the videos from this series
so you'll be able to follow along
you
[Music]
[Applause]
