welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Rob you
Ferguson welcome to episode number 258
of category 5 technology TV white wall
edition 258 158 Wow yeah hey kids nice
to be I know but I'm happy to be here
glad to be alive good way to start the
night good way to start a night hey you
nice to have you here and welcome to the
new category 5 TV studio still in
process still in process he's got child
things on all the doorknobs I went
upstairs never got why I had trouble
getting through the door oh yeah what
get two minutes one minute okay still
wrestling with the child proof door I
said what it is a kitty door entrance
you can get through there yeah yeah and
just kind of girl fitting through the
little kitty that's kitty door with
cheese right yes yeah we don't have it
Edith children us doors it's like dwarf
doors this is for like very very short
people and very cool stuff Oh Robbie
rough what's going on man Here I am
standard day in the Sun is gorgeous here
in the this lovely little town of ours
editing pretty good dude all right so
how about you what was the move
how is on your part we're here the boxes
are here everything's here now it's just
getting through everything she couple
things haven't unpacked yet yeah there's
company yeah look around just maybe
should boxes should give them a panorama
well those of you watching on backstage
pass Scott was already saying WOW don't
envy you one bit Robbie it's a ton of
work to movie my tell you folks did you
ever find that box with beer i found
that was at the top of the plan you know
had I lost it I would've just gone and
picked up another one yeah you're
replaceable yeah you know re you know
and and Chris Reich has just put your
hair is getting a little long what's up
but they know it's over a new do or one
of those weeks no it's just when you're
moving it's insane how much work it is
is like every waking hour you just go go
go I made a mistake last week i
mentioned that that sasha was going to
be starting this week ah this is you
know like the whole calendaring of what
was during the muni quitting me to eye
candy well this is a tweet from scott
evans who who joins us on twitter VK
seven HSE and says Robbie I thought you
were having a new girl start out that
old guy just ain't gonna cut it in the
eye candy steak sorry Erin Wow ouch goes
from Scott Evans on Twitter somebody
told me my skunk looked like mixed on my
beard look like my skunk looks like a
beard ain't just about made that slur
yeah tonight we're gonna be looking at
knoppix it's a live CD very excited
about that because we love Linux here we
love open source stuff love it yeah we
truly do but here's here's an
opportunity to look at something that's
a live CD we're gonna actually be
installing it into our machine oh I
thought it wouldn't be fun for
acknowledging oh yeah there it is there
we go I'm Carrodus it's covered in boxes
but it's there we're gonna be installing
it which is kind of a weird thing to do
with that knoppix we'll talk a little
bit about it it's a live CD specifically
we're doing live TV can you define
though it's a CD that you boot from ok
without having to install Linux and it's
true you can run knoppix without
installing it but we're gonna have some
fun tonight as a bit of a hobbyist kind
of feature we're going to be looking at
knoppix getting it working on your
system fully encrypted so that you know
if you stick it on a laptop a virtual
machine a flash drive and someone takes
it from you you're not going to lose it
or not they're not gonna be able to
access that I should say you won't have
it any you won't have anyone but of
course you'll have a backup right we've
talked about that before we've talked
about it yeah what do you got coming up
in the news well here's a lot of little
stuff newsroom kids a new TV standard
will offer 16 times sharper images than
current HD TVs Wow imagine Eric kid in
16 times the HD you know what's once I
gonna be able to buy you those photos
you know started beating nasal hair
here's my hours you don't want that kind
of clear yeah then all of a sudden Chris
Reich is saying Oh Robbie your nose hair
is going in this month start braiding
those things okay an underwater
wheelchair will allow wheelchair users
to scuba dive Haley that sounds pretty
pretty wild yeah and Neil Armstrong has
died at the age of 82 and a new album
based computer is entirely
self-contained in the keyboard hey so
stick around these stories are coming up
later in the show I kind of like that
kind of thing yeah so it's all in here
got it all in there yeah just like that
okay uh tonight all right i'll just
mention again you've heard me say it
before but we've got a mobile site if
you've got one of these mobile devices a
blackberry and ipod and iphone a android
device a tablet whatever you've got I
shouldn't sound off on this thing
tonight it's a good idea that's good
yeah m dot cat five dot TV that's m dot
cat five dot TV alright well we've got
to take a quick break before we a break
already yeah well before we get into
your viewer questions this isn't even a
union shop here you can email us live at
category 5 TV you see how I seg wait
right back into what I was talking about
it's amazing how I'm able to do that
with him you can also join us in the
chat room nice to see everybody there
see we've already made mention a Chris
Reich and a couple of the other people
that are joining us bk7 HSE older Jim's
oh well guy Jim yeah hey we got no I you
know when you have a name like boo and
boo boo I don't know how to say it boo
and the odds hey boo movie p MVP it's
possible it's possible but then again
it's partially leet speak so who really
knows o noodle Linux joining us again
tonight shocked surprised your yacht oh
no no you okay Dennis Kelly hey you al
is that you all do you l yeah we've been
through this before we have this
argument we had a lot discussion I ended
up having a breakdown over yet yeah I
know you forget things yeah I'm
discussing that's my son hit my car last
night he plays bagpipes and use it to
his bagpipes uh yeah rehearsal and and
he came in i was on the phone i said hey
bud how's it going you went up to his
room but now our lakers where the heck
is brandon he's got my car he said you
said hi to me when it came in what's
your problem dad oh dear yeah whoops
losing it folks losing it folks by the
initial memory loss I think at about ten
minutes to eight I'm just gonna say
welcome to category five TV and just see
how far he'll go with it I'll tell you
what's coming up in the newsroom good to
see DJ mike has well been a while since
I've seen you in the chat room you might
have been there but nice to see ya good
to see you nice to see everybody joining
us well cool all right good excellent
excellent yeah we'll be right back we're
taking a break yeah after this take a
break already messages stick around
don't go anywhere pop some popcorn but
make sure you keep an ear on category 5
TV we'll be right back at eco alkalines
we believe you should be able to trust
your batteries not just here but
here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference eco alkalines calm are you in
or near Barrie Ontario or feel like
making the journey meet the on air crew
of category 5 technology TV in person on
Tuesday September 25th as we celebrate
five years of bringing you free
technology TV the live show will be held
at bury Free Methodist Church on candles
road east and bury an admission is
absolutely free there will be prizes
during the show for those who attend as
well as a meet and greet following a
live broadcast doors open at six thirty
p.m. and we hope to see you there don't
miss this type of celebration with the
on air crew from category 5 technology
TV both past and present Tuesday
September 25th at 630pm for more details
visit category 5 TV this is category 5
technology TV i'm your host robbie
ferguson nice to see ya well you know
it's nice to be here too sorry i'm
responding with somebody who's and
cranking about the bagpipes and ok
they're going on about the bagpipes in
the chat room already are they actually
you know what I all my kids played music
of some description whether it's an ipod
or a piano or set of drums guitars bass
pianos got a musical father um McCauley
and you know the day we got the drum kit
and the kids started beating away on
those it was quite something it was
dramatic you know even the neighbors
thought it was doing right right but I
gotta tell you nothing fills a house up
more than a set of bagpipes a set of
drums is loud what do you call the
little ones that just a little chanter
is that what it is a job just the
chanter in it's like a Celtic instrument
it sounds similar to bagpipes but it's a
little sweeter a little annoyed why
don't you talking about the straight
pipe that you can practice all real okay
without the bag without the banner any
focus so what but what is that
instrument the littler model there are a
few does anybody know in the fact i
don't know i don't know all right I just
sound uneducated if I said iced the
Highland pipes are you got the Celtic
pipes make it up I would know the energy
of the resident that don't have the you
know they have a bladder that you don't
actually have to blow up whether it's
mechanical like automatically yeah like
one of those whoopee cushions that
automatically filled it's not like that
those are amazing it's about time they
integrated the whoopee cushion
technology into bagpipes they have
started and elastic wait a second if I
go like this hey hey it works easy now
uh you know bald nerd o dot com Oh get
questions into us live at category five
TV Eric's watching for you and join us
in the chat room guest 3276 hello good
to see ya ah also guest 1614 yeah you
know you guys can name yourselves yeah
you can like create a name John will
tell you all about it I want to be
slagathor slagathor yeah all right I
begley think i read this one oh yeah
this is from Robert Kazinsky and all may
I you may this is what happens when we
just move and yeah you're looking at the
last time you're in there you go you're
good sorry both agonal said I real said
this up well no yeah I'm all set i went
through all your questions but it'll
wait these are the ones from two weeks
ago that's a little thank you all right
that's exactly take it away Eric I don't
want to play with this guy anymore I
know I no fun no fun at all okay we have
a viewer question but hey Robert
Kazinsky big show de yeah nice nice to
hear from those nice to its a game this
week even if it was the same mother than
couple of weeks ago yeah
golly okay so this is from David Tapia
from hallandale florida hey hey yeah
hope you're taking shelter down there
barely Isaac is that falling yeah I
think it's hidden closer to New Orleans
norleans then yeah out of the pan of the
same path as I Trina but is the Gulf
Coast yeah well everybody take care
tonight I am gang hello Robbie and gang
love the show but I hardly get to see it
live mostly I catch it in youtube I have
a friend I used to have a friend to that
had an external USB heart hard drive and
it died his house got hit by lightning
and lost all major appliance we just
have to replace una beauties these are
the lyrics of a country song must be I
could write it can you sing it well
we'll see I had an external USB hard
drive in a died you gotta mispronouncing
ssin sorry you had a bad attitude I know
I do got a bad attitude and a bed here I
just sounded country to me his house got
hit by lightning ah see lost all major
appliances so after replacing some fuses
power supplies etc he found that the HD
board was fried hmm he took it out and
saved it but didn't save any info from
the hardware brand name it suffer like
the PCB actually took the PCB off of the
hard drive maybe no askim hmm I wish
that I had two days d to see if I can
access it since I have one of those USB
kits for external hard drives but I
can't is it possible to access it at all
is it something i can do myself sending
it to a company to have it recovered is
out of the question please help thank
you for taking the time ciao ciao okay
go and that's from David Tapia first of
all this is an external hard drive so
really what what does it external hard
drive consists of it's an internal hard
drive inside of a chassis right so if
the chassis got busted in the storm
which is quite often the case like it
could be like the surge took out the
power supply or the the PCB the board in
the external thing but
sometimes the hard drive is ok if
however the surge got through that and
the hard drive itself got zapped then
you're likely looking at a bad PCB which
is that microchip board on the underside
of your hard drive if that's the case
then it gets expensive at the point it
does and you're not probably doing it
yourself not at all and reason being I
mean and I've heard people say oh well
I've got an identical hard drive and so
I took the chip board off of that and I
put it on the other hard drive and it
wouldn't fire up well you're actually
going to cause a lot of damage doing
that because every hard drive it's not
just the the model if I've got a seagate
barracuda 7200 point 10 and I take a
board off of one and put the board on
another it may not be from the same run
they may not have the same sector count
they may not have the exact same hard
drive structure the heads may be
different the internal components may be
different so you're actually going to
potentially cause a lot of damage to the
system if you do that so you want to be
very very careful when you're when
you're swapping things around like that
the what I would try it's probably you
know it's going to be a it's a
reasonably new external hard drive it's
going to be a standard SATA hard drive
inside so I always keep on hand a
thermaltake blacks which is extremely
handy and you may not have this but I'm
just I just want to tell you this
because it's a really really good thing
to have on hand I'm just going to bring
up a picture one just so that you know
what I'm talking about here go to
thermal take us a dog loose t-shirt well
yeah well that's for the water 2 point 0
which we've also looked at let's see
there we go like one of those kind of
things a blacks it supports 3.5 and 2.5
inch drives and it goes USB ESAT a kind
of thing what's nice about them is that
they support both the three and a half
inch full size hard drives on the one
and a half inch laptop hard drive so if
it's a laptop hard drive you can still
mount it and it's easy easy easy that
something like that or connecting it
directly into the motherboard of your
computer will give you a chance to test
the hard drive so that you're ruling out
the whole USB thing because you're
you're still trying to take it and put
it into another external enclosure which
you know who knows if that is the cause
I'd want to try the hard drive connected
directly to the computer and just make
sure that you know that it is the hard
drive but I think if at that point if
you connect it to your computer's SATA
and your BIOS doesn't pick it up or you
don't get access to the dr then you know
i could you could be looking at some
physical musical damage taper driving
present on an other external USB you
yeah i was right in dunnellon check to
see where the jumper is to you typically
want that set to well it probably is
already set up it's in an already in an
external well yeah and these days when
with SATA drives it will work with the
jumper in either position at that's just
the speed three gigabits vs six gigabits
or 1.5 so it's not going to really make
it a huge difference to that I don't
think at least you be able to spin it up
but it depends on what the problem is to
like is it clicking is it just simply
not being detected in the bios if it is
being detected in the bios but not being
readable in the operating system then
you might try using a linux live CD or
something like that and see if you can
access it through that by mounting it
again just by installing it into your
computer but you want to be very careful
because if it's failing or if it has
failed then the more you do to it the
more potential inability to recover it
you create so and then it boils down to
sending it into data recovery which is
you know we're going to cost if it's
if it's hardware you're looking probably
at least a thousand bucks you know nine
hundred to a thousand bucks and then up
from there if it's hardware
unfortunately so good luck I'll be able
to find something come on all right how
another question all right here's one
from drum well hey drum well okay i'm
new to linux discovered show about two
weeks ago possum welcome on youtube
while searching for things linux since
then I've been watching past and present
episodes and was wondering how far back
can I find show notes in the episode
archives show has a warm and friendly
feel at male may it live long and
prosper well let's see you see really
real yeah yeah very good very good yeah
I've show notes like I think pretty much
go back to basically the front of season
five you can watch older episodes but
the notes themselves need to be
converted over which is a huge massive
undertaking and but there are some but
easy way for you to tell is just to go
to our website category five TV and
you'll see let's see here we've got
episode matrix and you can scroll down
so essentially it starts not sure if
they're there for 195 yep so basically
if it shows all the information in the
episode matrix then you know that there
are show notes for that episode these
ones here that are missing some
information are not going to have the
show notes just yet at this point
they're coming if there's a particular
episode that you're looking for the show
notes for let us know that'll not just
to good my break isn't even get these
boxes unpacked you know you know with
her psyche all these alone show note and
and I don't pay him well enough to get
him to do it he's what I'm drinking
tonight blog on occasion
uh yeah okay here's one hey Robert
Kazinsky we missed you oh hey Robert
he's from Melbourne Australia by the way
I look at this I like this are we were
gonna hi Robbie and Eric ya buddy well
done yeah in Spock well done Robert
after watching the episode on stirring
strong passwords in a safe way I decided
to give keepass X a try and really like
it one of the things I like about it is
that it runs on multiple os's so i am
using it on Zorin OS system in windows 7
and on my android phone and tablet
though I do have a problem with it on
Zorin OS if you open keep a sex and type
in your password to unlock it to see
your passwords etc it doesn't work so to
get around this I have to open the
database file or database as you prefer
to say which then launches the program
and it works not sure if this is a bug
in the program i'm using version 0.4
point 3 and not the version 2 alpha 2
which is the latest i'm not sure if
anyone else is having this problem maybe
it's limited to debian based distros i
really enjoyed the first episode in your
new studio though you do need to add a
background perhaps change the wall that
you had in the old studio to something
else maybe Spock standing on planet
Vulcan perfect there you go green screen
and I'll just say yeah well the great
work again we're working hard to me Wow
where'd that come from get any onion I
got for you we're working we're working
on it we're working on it everything
about the studio has to be unpacked and
that includes the backdrops so we're
getting there thanks for your for your
comments and questions and looking
forward to having this fully set up for
you two but I've got this crazy
commitment that even during times of
transition and extreme amounts of work
we're gonna have a show we're gonna
every Tuesday 258 episodes 5 years of
this stuff without missing
one that's the kind of commitment that
you got from us here so you're gonna
have to you know you don't have a
backdrop what's going on you guys last
week I got question you know he's got a
paroled schlock like me oh you know what
Oh sash is not coming in this week it's
the week after can you show up so here I
am I was enough exactly how it went down
now can you fill in I got my schedules
all mixed up no but it'd last week I got
the comments about the catapult
everybody else in my date book who come
over it didn't go like that it was
pretty nice that I didn't call anyone
else because I knew Hilary just got
married on Saturday congratulations so
she wasn't available I knew Christa
couldn't come because she was here last
week ready bear so you're you're really
just the only person I could call and
once again you have criticized the beard
I did not that was Chris oh yeah right
just mispronounced something for him
he'll be quiet for a while I could not I
could mispronounce all kinds of things
yeah I'll work on that I'll come up with
something spectacular I believe we were
in the middle of a question about keep a
sex oh I was moving on to the next one
you're on I read the question you just
can't assert a good answer in a very I
didn't even talk about it yet I said
I've got the same friend should pay
attention to the show and get in it all
right let's get out of here so here's
that's what it is Robbie we have a
question regarding yeah all right so
there's keep at sex I haven't seen that
problem let's create a quick database or
database sure all right let's try it so
you're saying you you create it your
name
and then when you open keep a sex you're
having to now see remember that I've set
it to automatically stay loaded so that
I don't have to ever right because those
are the settings that we went through on
the show and I explain why we wanted to
do that back on that episode so what
happens if I actually quit and then load
it again enter my master key cool so
that's the that's the expected behavior
because in my settings I have asked it
to to require a password once it's been
closed or gone to sleep and I've also
set it to start locked start minimize
start locked so maybe you've gone
through those same settings and you just
haven't made that correlation lock
workspace when minimizing the main
window lock database after inactivity
what it means to lock the database this
is a good idea because this contains all
your passwords and they're available in
plain text if somebody has access to
this database remembers an encrypted
database so by setting it to lock itself
by setting it to automatically require a
password in order to reopen that's the
expected behavior with these settings
because if I walk away from my computer
and I'm not at my computer for a half
hour and then the phone rings and I get
carried away doing something and then I
have to get in the van and run downtown
and then someone breaks into my house
and they've got access to my laptop they
take it home and you know it's still
powered on and they plug it in and oh
look I've got his banking information
I've got his everything yeah you know
just like we should probably have your
facebook set the log I'd be 30 seconds
of inactivity can you can you add in
facebook look like a Kentucky son's
friend's moms is always leaving
everything how I said it gotta put a
password you gotta log off and you walk
away from the computer because she's
continuously posting stuff like whoops I
pooped in the dryer enough to do the
load again and she realizes her kids
have gone and Oh played with her
facebook account yes brilliant is your
info where Leon yes so yeah I've heard
some stories I mean you know there's
worse stuff than that but I thought yeah
yeah probably behave like I said I was
going to try to behave tonight so with
keep a sax it's a good idea to have it
set up that way if that's the if that's
the nature of the problem that you're
experiencing the problem it's actually a
good thing that is prompting you for a
password every time okay okay I hope
that helps Eric it is time to hit the
news have you got many more questions
coming through obvious you've got I've
got a couple more questions you're okay
well do that you wanna do now let's talk
about the news first we'll see how much
time we have and we're going to come
back to your viewer questions email is
live at category five dot TV or join us
in the chat when we love to see you
there it is category five on freenode or
simply visit the chat room on our
website category five dot TV Eric take
it away my friend will here are the top
stories from the category five TV
newsroom tonight the new high-resolution
television format has been approved by
the UN's communication standards setting
agency broadcasts an 8k vlogger
revolution of 7680 by 4320 pixels
roughly the equivalent of a 32 megapixel
photo that is some sharp yeah ah that is
16 times the sharpers current HD TVs
offering about 2 mega pixel resolutions
Japanese broadcaster NHK has developed
three cameras that can capture the
higher resolution which it calls super
hi-vision at 60 frames per second but
aims to double that to 120 frames per
second by contrast the BBC currently
broadcast HD TV programs at 25 frames
per second unreal I wonder what that's
going to do the price of TVs though if
that actually I mean it's been an
approved standard so yeah one other
thing your old done yeah I know as I can
EV it's going to go the way of my CRT
and my VHS and my DVD but right now the
sweet point in televisions is the simple
fact that they are really low resolution
you don't realize because of the the way
they're designed they look good they
look HD even though they've got a really
poor resolution when it comes down to
the actual dots per inch so that's why a
computer screen yeah typically looks
better but I wonder what that's
because now all of a sudden I could take
a 52 inch TV and it's actually better
resolution than my computer screen it's
the opposite of what we have going on
right now I wonder what that's going to
do to pricing yeah and what about the
bandwidth to deliver that oh boy gots
the other question too because
everything's going ip-based I was
talking to to a friend today about the
fact that even cable TV is going
ip-based Lulu yeah they're just
switching everything over to their
internet service through the coaxial
cable so you're getting your digital
cable signal on an ip-based network hmm
so what's gonna hang out what's gonna
happen if you're we don't know the
answer that one folks they're gonna have
to create they're gonna bring back laser
discs Oh million except they're going to
be blu-ray they'll be laser disc blu-ray
double-sided for the special features
and that'd be amazing Rhodri got two
hours of video but it is in 8k Wow
fantastic artist sue Austin is preparing
to show off a prototype self-propelled
underwater wheelchair to the public so
I'm trying to figure it until you get
self-contained underwater breathing
apparatus what is this self-propelled
this is boo well anyway guess whose feet
a wheelchair user since 1996 developed
the chair with help from dive experts
and academics the model is powered by to
dive propulsion vehicles and steered
with a bespoke fin and foot operated
acrylic strip oh so that's what the
things on her feet are I was trying to
make sense of that it looks like the
that is detached between her two feet
and they're almost like rudders okay so
this is she looks like she's having a
good time fo yeah
but you are gonna require some foot
movement then so this isn't perhaps for
everybody yeah you're exactly right okay
because you know if you're if you have
no ability to use your lower body than
what if that's how you're steering them
what would you do but also like I don't
know again we don't know the answers to
this if are any of you in a wheelchair
that I personally I would think that if
i was to scuba dive and i had no use of
my lower body for example that i might
want to get out of the wheelchair
because there's that sense of the
freedom of not having gravity when
you're underwater that you know that
maybe would be freeing to be able to get
out of the chair with an interesting
concept certainly certainly what do you
think she is staging a performance with
it in a swimming pool in weymouth or way
mo weymouth this week okay okay and
interested to hear from our viewers on
that especially if you are or a loved
one are in a wheelchair alright so Neil
Armstrong the first man to walk on the
moon as commander of the Apollo 11
mission has died at age 82 Armstrong
became the first human to set foot on
the moon on July twentieth nineteen
sixty-nine see it was QED okay the I
guess 68 sorry I remember looking up at
the moon that day that night oh right
yes yes that's right because you were
alive at that I was alive though well I
was not gonna see where I'm sorry like
seven years away we're in Oh more than
that oh sorry about that s-sorry okay
the Twitter feed of NBC Nightly News
said he died at 2 45 p.m. eastern on
Saturday and that he'd suffered from
complications from a heart surgery he
want underwent earlier this month now
there was another there was another NBC
apparently were the first to report this
but their website I think the folks in
quality control may perhaps have missed
a couple of things they reported it
astronaut Neil Young had passed away at
the age of 82 really yes from
complications Wow of a
from heart surgery head in 1969 which as
I said that's the year he landed on the
moon so anyway Neil Young is alive and
well and still rockin in the free world
so ah with ever shrinking computer
peripherals we're seeing some really
cool devices these days along the lines
of Raspberry Pi resident pie Reza yeah I
thought it was stuff it was a private
investigator but now a fan of the old
Commodore computers can start to get
excited too yes a recently uncovered
device from dyad low-tech puts the 1.8
gigahertz dual-core Intel Atom processor
and 2 gigabytes ram and a 500 gigabyte
hard drive into the body of a keyboard
not only does it look pretty much like a
normal computer keyboard but what's also
exciting about this is that it's priced
at only two hundred and thirty nine
dollars on amazon and is powered by
spoon to linux fantastic so now when you
spill your coffee on your keyboard
you're really not happy yeah I guess I
wonder if I take that kind of thing into
account well let me give kid proof but
it's only two hundred thirty-nine bucks
but wait yeah but what are your Daito
worth well you'd have a backup of course
of course you use that what would you
use that for what that type of device
wonder what the practical mob takes up a
whole lot less realize I guess you know
what you know I was 18 well maybe we
still need a monitor yeah you still need
a monitor but no tower not nothing on
the floor no but it would mean more
cables going to your keyboard right
perhaps maybe as you have your monitor
no it's actually got d-sub outputs for
the video it's got you know your power
input and all that kind of stuff so
standard PC basically but to think of
1.8 giga hertz sitting on your desk and
that's it you could buy think of it this
way it's the kind of the price of buying
a terminal yeah like a like a weiss
terminal or something like that it's
probably cheaper they said deal with
those TV station but you think about the
fact that this is not a terminal this is
not reliant on a big expensive server
this is receiver the box let us in
Google by 10
for your business and you know perfect
for business applications based on a
boon to Linux that's cool that is cool
good way to get people involved in our
testing trying Linux maybe they should
send us one to play with maybe they
should yes we should have that on the
show have you got that folks send us one
will play with it right here I like the
way he thinks you can get the full
stories of category 5 TV / newsroom the
category 5 TV news room is researched by
Roy w Nash with contributions by our
community of viewers if you have a news
story you think is worthy of on-air
mention email newsroom at category 5 TV
for the category 5 TV news room American
thank you Eric get your free netflix
pass for one month cat5 TV / netflix
you're going to get all you can watch
movies and television shows at cap five
dot TV / netflix absolutely free for an
entire month category five tonight is
brought to you in part by quarter e
electric they are the official
electrical company of category five
technology TV find out their information
right there on your screen or visit
quarter e electric com encourage you to
check them out did they get over in the
help with wiring did they ever do well
we wouldn't we wouldn't be online
excellent if it weren't for that yes
luton so they are fantastic and they got
us up and running actually just before
the the last show which was crazy I know
because you know we were literally
getting ready to go live and they were
there efficient sport or very
considerate though I mean he understood
that you know I had my stuff that I had
to do and so he got done what needed to
be done and did a fantastic job did you
know really nice wiring made sure you
know was nice cosmetically as well as
you know did did the job that we needed
done so very cool looking good yeah well
i would like to look at knoppix because
seven point no point for just came out
really you know it's always exciting to
see the progress of something like
knoppix it's been a long time coming
because it's a you know kind of an
independent project but it is a very
cool project you've probably used it for
recovering computers and stuff you use
knoppix before
it's like the de facto linux boot CD I
have I'm not sure if I played with that
no no okay well I'm going to encourage
you tonight Eric and you at home to give
a look at knoppix we're going to
actually bring up their website we're
going to take a look here see what we
can do okay it's spelt kind of like qu
na pics yeah there it is nap xorg okay
my default is coming up in German so up
in the top right hand side for me
because I'm unable to read German I'm
going to switch to the English version
also you'll see that there is a way to
translate it up at the top so it does a
fairly good job of translating it into
English for me i'm going to download it
just by clicking on the download icon
i'm going to choose the DVD version the
DVD version basically it's amazing the
type of compression that they're able to
use that the the gentleman who runs the
knoppix project what he's able to do as
far as compression goes on a DVD or a CD
the DVD is actually I think like nine
gigabytes but the download is only three
points something real and it fits on a
4.7 gig disc he's basically using a
technology that allows linux to compress
things in such a way that it just loads
it like it was a hard drive what's very
interesting I don't I don't pretend to
grasp how it works but very cool stuff
so so the DVD version in fact includes a
lot of stuff a lot of stuff so I'm going
to grab that I'm going to get it off of
an ftp just choose one here but
basically ftp DVD just going to take you
to their agreement experimental software
use at your own risk except okay so
here's the list of different files and
you'll see that there is the de version
and the en version so all those
different versions yes somebody's new to
this then show up at this exactly what
are they gonna grab a roving this is why
we are here folks we're going to help
you find out what
you're going to download I remember
being a little overwhelmed when I was
first getting into linux about okay well
here's a big directory what am I
supposed to download so we understand
what each file type is that's where we
start this is an iso file so that isn't
a DVD image it is basically a
downloadable version of a DVD this is an
md5 file of the ISO so this is basically
a text file that tells me the md5
checksum of that iso file as well as
this same thing this is a sha-1 file
which is encryption so we can basically
ignore all of these the md5 md5 DSC
sha-1 sha-1 ASC let's ignore those and
only go for the ISIL because ice was
their actual dance de german league yes
yes that would be the language
specification so I'm looking for the
English version so what would make it
easier to follow would make it easier
for me yeah for you you might like the
German version absolutely I know we have
a lot of fantastic viewers joining us
from Germany right now which is awesome
thanks for joining us interesting side
fact that just reminded me we just
introduced remember we just introduced
access to category 5 in China all right
China is you guys are incredible they
are our third top viewing country out of
everybody in the world and they've only
been able to watch the show for a very
short time so welcome to everyone who's
watching in China it just it blows my
mind that you know after so five years
of broadcasting the show all of a sudden
you know we introduce it to China and it
is just booming in China we're getting a
lot of viewership there so thank you for
watching the show and please continue to
spread the word okay so we're gonna go
with the iso file whoops oh yes Kelly
and I like Dennis yeah I like he
suggested we pick the Canadian version
because it's with beer and hockey
fantastic they change the the interface
entirely so the the icons are all hockey
pucks okay so I want the basically okay
here's 7.0 point three I want seven
point 0 point for do you see where i'm
looking here read the file name
pics v seven point 0 point three right
means its version 7.0 point three it's
the DVD copy there's the release date
and it's German so if i scroll down a
little bit i'm going to start to see 7.0
point for DVD there's the release date
which is just the 20th which eight days
ago and the german version there's the
english version okay so there we are so
what i want to do is in fact download
that file by right clicking on it and go
save link as and i'm going to actually
save that to my desktop now i've already
gone to the to the effort of downloading
it because i knew that we would be
pressed for time tonight the magic of
television lady's rule the magical keys
are already cooked oh yeah isn't that
amazing yes isn't it amazing so I'm
gonna bring up VirtualBox because
VirtualBox is an amazing incredible way
for us to try new things and get to have
fun with linux and everything else you
can create a new virtual machine here so
we're going to just call this not pics
tester and why don't we create a version
in Mandarin since we have so many
viewers in China know that that is not
up to us oh well no I'm just do the it
okay oh do you mean the show yeah
translate remember how I was saying that
I'm pretty good at English but that's
about it yeah okay that's that's just my
failing that's not anyone else's problem
but well I'll do what we can and then
maybe I could get your young sister a
lot of help translate for you there you
go that would be pretty awesome that'd
be awesome let's go for ritual all right
okay so we're gonna go with okay knoppix
tester we've call said that it's linux
and we're going to go with debian
because it is in fact based on debian
okay so we're going to go next set how
much ram you want default is fine create
a new hard disk because remember going
to install this on to that first choice
is back there well yeah I'm just hitting
next right I do you virtual machine
defaults are dynamically allocated we're
going to do because it's going to take
up less space and it's going to grow as
we heat it how big do you want it to be
eight gigs is fine create the hard drive
create the system right click on it and
go settings
and we're going to go storage we're
going to highlight the CD and we're
going to actually load our knoppix CD
now you'll see that I in fact download
that the seven point 0 point three that
was then i should have done some point
you have to click live CD or is it just
don't know actually installed no that's
that's fine to leave that unchecked and
what I've actually done is gone choose a
virtual CD disk image and grabbed it
from my desktop and unfortunately I see
that I grabbed seven point one point
three which is kind of silly of me but
it happens okay so go through your
settings Network we're going to change
from that to bridged all right that's
going to give you network access and
bi-directional stuff very good idea
display turn on 3d acceleration that's
going to give you things like comp is
bring your video memory way up if you if
your system supports it maximum is 128
so that's not going to go with I have
five gigs of RAM on my video card so I'm
good to go so now i'm going to
double-click on that machine and in
virtualbox this can actually boot from
the knoppix seven-point OCD some point
i'll point three dude pretends yes
pretended it's seven point 0 point for
because that's the one you're going to
download keep in mind alright so once
this boots up this is a live CD so this
gives us access to linux without having
to install it very cool thing about
linux is that you're able to do this you
can use this to recover a computer that
is broken if you've got a computer with
if you've dropped it off the bug you
you're not like that okay but let's say
windows crashes you're you're on a
windows system which tends you know it
can happen your boot record gets
corrupted and you can't boot your system
anymore but you want to recover the
files and then you'll reinstall so you
use something like knoppix to mount the
hard drive and then you're able to you
know basically load the system and put
your files back so once we've put it up
here you see it's pretty quick I'm just
going to click on the knoppix icon on
the desktop go to applications and then
go to knoppix and you'll see one now
there is one called HD install we're
going to avoid that and we're going to
actually pretend that we're installing
on a flash disk I'm going to highlight
my hard disk which is a virtual box
hard drive and hit okay it says it does
not contain a fat32 partition are you
sure you want to continue yes this one
actually willed heart you know that
drive it's going to create that
partition for me which is to section out
the pie and make it so that knoppix can
install on to that and we're telling it
that it's a flash disk this is going to
give us the opportunity to create that
system that has a fully encrypted file
system so everything that we save is
encrypted within a single file and we
can back up that file and move it from
system to system very cool stuff so that
is going to go through this process it's
pretty straightforward very very easy
and it's going to actually boot up that
system now I have taken the liberty to
install that just so that we can save a
little bit of time tonight once again
through the magic of java through the
magic of television and notice that this
time around I'm actually explaining to
Eric why I'm about to shut it off
because he's learning about the magic of
television it's coming it's coming about
there goes I mean it's working great ok
so let's boot up the actual virtual
machine that I've created here and this
one is fully finished ready to go I hit
enter there to also version 7.1 crazy
right but pretend pretend pretend it's
cool what happens here because knoppix
actually allows you to password protect
that file during the installation
process I'll jump back real quick to the
to the Installer just in case is
prompting me for that it will actually
ask you hey do you want to encrypt your
data storage file and you say and just
enter your password it's good to go so
in this case I use demo one two three
and if I jump back looks like that's
going to take a few minutes so I'm just
going to actually jump back to my
completed system and one of the things
that you see here is during the boot up
process it says okay here's the file
knoppix dash data dot IES and it's
saying hey well what's your password you
can enter it in it does not allow the
system to boot
until you enter that password correctly
hit enter and it's actually going to
start booting that system if you really
remember the password if I remember the
password demo 1230 pretty
straightforward yeah it's gonna remember
your password no yeah use that for
everything everything anything all my
online banking is using demo one two
three of course of course nobody would
ever guess they think no way that Robbie
would do that back in my installing
screen you can see here's the question
it's going to create an overlay file for
storing data permanently if you want
this please enter the desired amount and
because I've made this hard drive it is
going to create it for four gigs fine
and that's where you hit OK and that
during the installation procedure is
where you're actually going to be able
to encrypt that file too because that's
the next question so now bag by overlay
phone overlay file is like the file that
stores because remember thinks that it's
a it's a flash drive so it creates a
file that now if I open office and
create an office file where does it save
that too so it creates aves that in the
overlay file as if it were actually a
hard drive ok right ok so this system is
now booted this is my new knoppix
installed basically a flash drive
version on a virtual hard drive you'll
see that effectively and this is exactly
what is on the flash drive or on the
bootable CD DVD so you see that there is
a ton of stuff here it comes pretty
chockful looks to me as though they've
really put an effort into games there
are a ton there it would appear it's a
good opportunity for you to play around
with linux and and see what it's like i
do like that you know stuff is up to
date on knoppix seven point 0 point 3 in
this case but also 0 point for of course
point for has got an even more
up-to-date system and that's the one
that said that you want to download
you'll see that GIMP is 2.8 exactly a
new image manipulation program yeah and
it runs pretty good I mean it runs very
good well very well
sure comes with anything that you need
like good wine yeah it is good it's
exceptional there we go so that's what
knoppix looks like out of the box
installed on my computer let's say we
want to step things up okay now we're
experimenting with Linux now this keep
in mind what we're doing tonight is kind
of hobbyist is what i'm calling it
because you probably don't want to do
this if this is your first experience
with linux but it's fun it's a cool
opportunity for you to try a different
distro and obviously very very easy to
set up and runs really good what it runs
really well Robbie okay what witness
wondering hey the thing at Vulcan Declan
knoppix is designed to be a boot CD to
recover hardware to recover from a
broken system or to be a good boot up an
old system so it's fantastic at
detecting your hardware what about
resources how it's linux right it is
linux with stuff on top of it now it's
not it's compressed so you like i say
you've got i no minimum processor amount
of my lighter on your box are you gonna
require for this to actually be helpful
well if you're doing it as a virtual box
installation then you've got to meet the
minimum requirements of creating a
virtual machine which is to say you have
to have twice as much resources as
you're allocating to the to the virtual
machine okay at least otherwise you can
start affecting performance if you're
gonna install it as a base system on a
computer which you can do recover an old
computer and make it run Linux here's a
fun kind of way to do it it's got a lot
of a lot of stuff out of the box those
in the know will say yeah but it's
running on fat32 yes it is you can do a
hard drive install if you want to run it
on Reese or FS for example in this case
we're doing it a little bit differently
just because we want to have some fun
with it I want to kind of make this feel
a little bit more sleek will say so I'm
gonna go to the knoppix menu here and
I'm going to go choose restart Norfolk
knoppix desktop so here's the exciting
things so chose chose restart not all
translations are perfect so we've got
four different options you'll see that
we are defaulted to learn
WM we can go to lxde we go to KDE or we
can go gnome 3 I haven't tried known
three I might be interested to know how
it runs lxde of course is cool KDE is
great let's try que te just because I
know that it's going to run very very
well and look at that that's sleek a are
you sure you want to restart your ex
server now yeah let's do it why not
gonna ask you for a password again I
hope no because we're not restarting
everything we're just restarting acts
okay but you'll see that now it's
actually loading into que te and I
didn't have to install anything it's all
built into this thing that i downloaded
off of not based on sorry ship yeah
rockin that carrying a space probe to
Mars cool so here we go into que te come
on bad boy KDE this is gonna give us a
bit more of a cuong quote beautiful
environment is more attractive
cosmetically pleasing you doing there it
goes there it goes look even bring the
nanodots bug yeah I forbid them they're
magnets are a scary thing to me around
computer stuff so there's not pics
running under KDE and you'll find if you
look at the release notes rep for
knoppix seven point no point for
everything is fairly recent as well so
this is a more familiar interface I
think for you know people who use for
example Microsoft Windows 7 there you
have it so it's a bit more of a start
menu kind of thing should we try it oh
let's live it up okay so that's that's
what it looks like with KDE it works
inside of the box we've just done a
really quick installing it it works
great looks pretty let's try no I just
want to know sometimes a guy just wants
to feel pretty well what you just
deleted them no no I just changed okay
oh it's making some changes to the
system
I don't know if I can switch to to know
more not let's see do I want to yeah
let's hang out of the box if knoppix is
able to do this for us here goes so
again we're looking at knoppix version 7
and it's freely available at knoppix org
that's spelled k and OPP I x.org we're
looking at the DVD version which
includes all of these great desktops so
we're loading it into gnome 3 now at
this point just to see if it will run
under this virtual machine that we've
created in that short amount of time
I've got a smile on his face what is
loading slowly but surely there it comes
oh no look at that see this is what I
figured out ruined a lot what's with
known 3c I like gnome 2 how are you
going over that is so Mac right there
but we did see that of course out of the
box it's perfectly able to handle que te
straight out of the box worked really
really well gnome 3 may be iffy but
that's okay so check it out it is an
amazing way for you to try out linux
just something fun for for people who
have used linux for a while and also of
course a great recovery system as well
but i would suggest you stay away from
gnome 3 for the moment i'm staying away
all right yeah I'm thinking of staying
away from cat five rule well oh yeah we
treat your pretty good thanks for
joining us tonight everybody this is
category 5 technology TV i'm your host
Ravi Ferguson our website is category
five dot TV and I'm the co-host Eric
Kidd and you know category 5 is a member
of the tech podcast network if it's tech
it's here and
the International Association of
Internet broadcasters thanks Aaron hey
you are welcome well that is practically
all the time that we have that's just
about it huh is it everybody that's been
nice having you here fantastic having
you here appreciate it and that we hope
that you'll join us again next week next
week indeed sasha is going to be joining
us here on the show you've met Sasha
she's a wonder own Sasha for several
years she's a wonderful young lady so
you guys are going to love her we're
gonna enjoy having her as a part of the
category 5 crew and of course you can
join us next week I checked the calendar
it is there on our website cat5 TV /
calendars you said she's just messing
with you yeah yeah she probably put it
in there and and then probably not sure
Lou no no yeah she's got better things
yeah I understand most tuesdays I mean
you you surprise me sometimes yeah you
got here I got yes for coming that was
early he was early this week here like
635 really than that yeah chat room is
so good to see ya looks like we've got
Rachel joining us in the chat room
tonight as well hello Rachel nice to see
ya and I don't know if I said hi to I
means it Rachel one shallow make her a
new computer oh yes of course yes I'll
just whip that out of my keyboard with
an atom 1.8 processor well you should do
it I'll be all right that would be the
kind of nice family kind of thing to do
you should do a builder a new computer
all right mmm little war come thanks
everybody got it up all in Mandarin
there you go I hope you have a fantastic
week really looking forward to next week
and I'm hoping that we're gonna get the
brick wall up soon that's gonna be run
as good wallfold we run into a brick
wall with the brick wall yep but we'll
talk to you next Tuesday night Eric it's
always nice having you here hey it's
Greg do these really and I see we've got
some boxes done packs yeah you like
Christmas a little bit of a little bit
of work yet Hey look look it around and
he you were mentioning when you first
came in that this is
kind of weird and I mention that on last
week the floor does seem to it just it's
move away from the desk it's kind of
like that it's very slippery when you
got wheels yeah so we got to put
something under the desk because it is
scratching the wood I was seeing a
little beer cooler yeah that too oh that
doesn't help the chairs that wouldn't
help well we can tie it off invincible
mutant great to see you in the chat room
as well thank you so much for your kind
comments as well follow us on Twitter
category 5 TV and I certainly look
forward to seeing you next week and yeah
good times oh yeah thanks Eric so you
had a slash affirmed yeah you folks yeah
thanks for being here have a good
Bobby
