welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 352 for tuesday the 17th
of jun 2014 so nice to have you here my
name is robbie ferguson nine hillary run
the you are loved one have trouble
hearing because we want to help tonight
on category five technology TV we're
going to be taking a look at Beltone
first it's quite possibly the world's
most sophisticated hearing aid and we
would like to show you one what makes it
so special also we want to show you how
to win won a pair of Beltone first
hearing aids worth about seven thousand
dollars we want to show you what is
different about Bell tone and we have a
very special guest to help us with that
tonight it's all happening right here on
category five technology TV we also have
a lot of things coming up the newsroom
the UK government can spy on its
citizens use of Facebook Google and
everything else since they are hosted
overseas additionally a helmet that
bounces microwaves off your brain can
determine whether there has been a bleed
or clots deep inside the US government
has removed restriction which will allow
the use of highly detailed satellite
imagery always intriguing
all right carry on I was distracted by
there's a lot of exciting things
happening right here so I'm sorry well
and lastly Star Trek's automatic doors
have been developed in real life stick
around these stories are coming up later
in our show this is category 5
technology TV starring Sasha dramatis
Hillary rumble
krista wells
and your host Ravi Ferguson
introducing Beltone first a
revolutionary new hearing aid so small
you can hardly see it so comfortable you
can hardly feel it for the first time
ever you can control hearing aids
directly from your iPhone pick up the
phone listen to music and use your
hearing aids like wireless headphones
hear everything that matters try Beltone
first for a free trial call one eight
hundred Bell tone now this is category
five technology TV heah my name is
Robbie Ferguson and I'm Hillary Rumble
category five dot TV is a number of the
tech podcast network if it's deck it's
here you can find out more at cat five
TV / tpn and the international
association of internet broadcasters
cat5 TV / I a I be Hillary speaking of
the tech podcast network I was
privileged to be guest host on geek news
central this past week so Thursday's
show go over to geek news central.com
and check out episode number 9 55 if you
heard of category 5 through that
broadcast welcome to the show and
certainly everybody who is new here it's
very very nice to have you here but that
was a lot of fun geek news central calm
and episode number 9 55 was where I was
guest host very cool wanna remind you as
well our mobile website is up and
running at m dot cat five dot TV those
of you who frequent the site you know
that the version for betta is available
now it's accessible through your mobile
device and that's really really exciting
because it's got some merit effectors
it's designed to run really really fast
for you and it has all episodes of
category 5 TV our way back to season 1
awesome this is category 5 TV and
tonight we've got a very unique and
special product to demonstrate for you
and Hillary you I understand are going
to do some signing for us because we do
have some viewers who are tuning in
tonight who may not be able to hear the
words that are spoken I certainly do my
best and hope that you're able to read
my lips
Hillary's going to try to help with that
as well Frank scoopski is joining us
from Beltone Canada they are located at
belltown calm and Frank just a quick
introduction it is oh and it's let's
just make sure we've got various we got
we got them on screen there is hey Frank
nice to have you here thanks for joining
us and thanks for having me here Frank
you I would love it if you would just
introduce yourself and Beltone just
right off the bat sure my name is Frank
scoopski I'm the general manager for
Beltone Canada beltone is a world known
manufacturer of hearing instruments in
fact next year we'll be celebrating our
75th anniversary of helping people all
over Canada the United States around the
world to hear better we distribute
products globally and we are on the
forefront of hearing aid technology and
given you know the growing demographic
and you know the increase in the you
know the Boomer is now becoming senior
citizens certainly this is a product
that you know certainly suits or fits a
need that's out there today really cool
what what is different about Bell tones
products and what makes it unique in the
market i I'd be interested to know what
it is that makes Beltone the choice of
millions of individuals well I think
number one I mean you know to be around
for 75 years obviously you have to be
you know on the forefront of technology
we're very proud of the wireless
technology that we actually introduced
close to four years ago that utilizes a
2.4 gigahertz FM frequency just recently
back in February in a collaboration with
Apple we were able to bring out the very
first instrument that is a maid for
iphone hearing instrument so it utilizes
our 2.4 gigahertz MLG along with a blue
with a Bluetooth smart four-point-oh
technology to basically have a hearing
instrument that will interface directly
with an iphone and ipod and ipod and
ipod touch ipad ipad mini's really the
applications are endless really taking
hearing a technology to the next level
now I would love to talk to you a little
bit about some
technical aspects we're going to hold
off on that because Hillary understands
a lot more about the needs of an
individual who has hearing loss and so
Hillary I'll let you kind of take over
the interview and just have a little
chat with Frank so sure um I was just
curious about your design and what makes
it different compared to other companies
and also maybe what's unique and and how
that is helpful for the different ages I
know kids sometimes their hearing aids
are always falling off do you have
anything that makes your hearing aid
better than other companies well I think
number one you know our products
utilizing the wireless platform that we
have at least a 2.4 gigahertz platform
we know that that's the technology going
forward in the future in terms of being
able to use it with different
communication devices I would say to
this date you know we just had a hearing
aid manufacturer that introduced a
technology that was similar but that was
just this year I mean we go back to 2010
utilizing this technology so we
certainly have a big head start over our
competition the end users who use the
product certainly you know they do like
the you know the usability for instance
with a smartphone however at the end of
the day it's still an outstanding
sounding hearing instrument is very
natural sounding belt at belton we're
pretty proud of the algorithms that we
utilized program the hearing instrument
based on the individuals hearing loss
that creates a very natural sound
experience for them but we do take into
consideration a lot of the other you
know aspects of hearing because hearing
is really it it changes so much it's not
really just like looking at something
hearing can come at you from all
different angles so whether it's you
know you're in a busy restaurant or you
want to listen to music or you want to
do different things we certainly have
the technology built in to address those
different listening environments and
situations as it relates to children for
instance and you talk about hearing aids
falling off kids years and things like
that I think that that's just the nature
of kids
you know they're they're gonna have a
hearing aid on them and they're
automatically going to want to pull them
off so it's just something that
hopefully you know through use they're
not going to do overtime if I can just
interject thinking about the design of
these devices you see that Hilary and
I've got our microphones on for the sake
of category 5 technology TV as i
understand it Hilary you're actually
wearing a belt own first hearing aid yes
I do have a hearing aid on but I can't
hear but you can't even see it so well
hidden and and designed in a way that
it's not noticeable unless you're like
staring can you can you show us can I
can't see Kennedy there it is there it
is Wow very cool um Hillary I'll hand it
back over to you so okay I guess I was
more interested in the different like
environmental situations how does a user
kind of tailor their needs to match the
hearing it like how it just is the app
like user friendly is it easy to use if
if I may I think that's one of the
unique things about the Beltone first
what really stood out to me is the fact
that it does use an app and you can
select different environments and so if
I'm in a restaurant I can actually set
it to a restaurant environment and and
be able to Zone in on certain
frequencies or remove certain
frequencies I suppose Frank is that so
I'm not hearing so much the clinking
dishes as I am the person who's sitting
across the table from me well I think
you know the number one purpose of a
hearing instrument really is it's a
communication device more than anything
so we're really focusing on speech and
speech understanding and that's the big
complaint that people who are hearing
impaired have a noise for instance
because if you take a look at a piano
for instance you know you have your low
frequencies on the keys to the left and
the high frequencies to the right what
ends up going on a person who's hearing
impaired are those high frequencies and
that's really what gives you your
understanding and speech ok so
consonants really give you your
understanding and speech they're all
centered in the high
frequencies so really what the hearing
instruments do especially when they're
in a noisy situation is that noise
happens in the low frequencies and that
really masks so the high frequencies and
your ability to understand in speech so
what we're able to do with our
instruments is that the hearing aids can
actually detect when speech is present
but also be able to detect when there's
ambient noise and what we will do is
because ambient noise for instance of
the lower frequencies will compress that
down will actually reduce the game on
the ambient noise or ambient background
noise and be that will be able to you
know create a little more accentuation
on the higher frequencies so you can
understand speech and we do that a
number of different ways through
different noise reduction circuits but
we also have something built in here
called directional microphones so a
directional microphone will actually
create a field and we call it more of a
beamforming field where the focus is in
front of you and that's usually where
the person is speaking to you so that we
can block out all the background noise
for instance that's behind you so that
just creates better listening
environment when there's a lot of
background noise that's amazing really
cool it sounds to me is a and I'm
completely out of you know my hearing is
just fine and so I'm I'm not in this you
know I I don't know a lot about hearing
aids in there and their functionality
but I've always imagined that a hearing
aid was really an amplification unit but
you're explaining that you're you're
able to focus on and actually improve
the audibility of specific frequencies
that have to do with speech and and
other things that that the wearer may
want to hear and reduce those things
that that we don't want to hear yeah I
mean number one a hearing instruments
all about speech recognition and helping
people be able to communicate number one
because communications really what kind
of connects us to people it does connect
us to people I'm listening to you right
now and talking to you although I don't
really seem like too much on the screen
I see your picture but
but being able to hear what you're
saying basically is is what we try to
restore its all about speech
understanding with a nap you know with
the the hearing instrument yeah you're
able to utilize the app to be you know
basically discreetly also when you're in
a restaurant for instance make
adjustments to the hearing aid you can
adjust the treble and bass you can have
preset programs this hearing instrument
even through the app has a geo-tagging
functions so I can actually save a place
so if there's a location that I like to
go to you know we have a lot of people
for instance veterans for instance maybe
they'd like to go to the Legion for
instance so they could actually have a
separate setting for that one location
say the Legion or bowling alley or
whatever and they can save it in the
program and with the GPS that's built
into your telephone when I go back to
that location your iPhone or whatever
device that you're using will actually
ask you hey you're back in this location
would you like to have it set to that
way that you had it before and you can
say yeah so that you can actually
enhance the listening experience of that
end user incredible Kin Kin those
programs if you will can they be tweaked
by the user beyond just treble and bass
well trouble and basis is the primary
one that that's done for that because
it's you're really going to be going
into a program for it's the square
either it's going to be noise or it's
going to be you know music but yeah you
just adjust the trouble in base you can
adjust the volume a little bit too as
well and then you can save that program
but there's a lot of other stuff that's
going on in the background you know in
terms of the noise reduction systems
that are built to the product feedback
systems you know to to make sure that
we're not running into any feedback
while not losing any amplification
incredible hilary i'll leave that back
to you I just have a cool story so one
of my friends um she identified to me
that she has some hearing loss in her
one year and she noticed like I guess 15
years ago she was having problems and
still through now and she's never used a
hearing aid before and I let her try my
my
my demo one just to see like oh well at
work will it not work and sure enough
she was able to hear like paper rustling
this at her desk inch and she's told me
she's like I have not heard that sound
in 15 years so that was just a cool
little story I thought I'd check right
that's great yeah I really i mean the
hearing aid that we sent up for the demo
really just has a very flat generic
hearing loss in it so you know these
hearing instruments are all programmed
and actually the Beltone first product
is one of the very few products or one
of the only products in the market where
you can actually program the hearing aid
spread wirelessly so you can actually
have someone sitting across from you and
you be making adjustments through our
programming software or fitting software
and making adjustments to the product
but number one what we require is the
audiogram that's basically the
prescription that we need to be able to
program the hearing aid individual for
this individual based on their
individual hearing loss and then
basically once we do that you know we
can make adjustments going down the road
and we can save different programs for
four different listening situations and
like I said through the app based on the
different places they go to they can
actually save up to 15 different places
now I don't think somebody's going to
possibly save 15 different places but
that application is there that's cool
that's very very very cool like that and
if your friend has a hearing loss just
in one ear more than likely it's
probably in both ears but it really
depends on you know usually if someone
only has a hearing loss in one ear first
thing they have to do is go see a doctor
regarding that because that's what we
call a red flag hearing loss in one ear
but if it's hearing loss in two years
and it's either noise induced or age
induced hearing loss usually it'll
happen pretty equally in both ears kind
of like wearing glasses right usually
your prescriptions are pretty close to
each other the Reeve we talked about the
the price of these devices you know are
they available through whole hip or
anything like that which is our our
coverage here in Canada for example in
Ontario in particular well I mean it
really depends where you live number one
in Canada because there are different
third-party programs that are available
in Ontario for instance there is a
program available through the Ontario
government which will give you a grant
towards the purchase of a hearing
instrument if you're a veteran there's
certainly programs there if you're a
worker in Ontario there is wsib program
as well you really have you really have
to check you know basically you're where
you live and you know if there's any
sorts of extra coverage is available and
what kind of price is involved in a
Beltone first well i think you know
again it you know that the retail prices
are are set up based on where you're
located so it's it's specific to each
store basically is that probably
probably more like each province really
or country for instance in the United
States you could see different prices I
think the one thing to really understand
it but when you buy hearing instrument
though is it's just not about buying the
hearing aid and you know it's something
that you walking to the store then you
walk away basically when you're
purchasing a product like that you're
also investing in the practitioner who's
providing the service for you for the
life of that hearing instrument and for
the life of the next hearing instrument
that you buy and then the life of the
next hearing is that you buy so you know
there there could be many times that you
go back you need an adjustment or maybe
you need a cleaning really it's it's the
professionalism it's the service that's
provided by that healthcare professional
I love to use the analogy of an
orthodontist for instance you know if
you really took all the materials of
getting braces and you put them down on
a table you'd probably have a lot of
metal in elastic and plastics but yet
there's a cost associated with them
which is probably a lot more than those
raw materials but because you're going
back and you're getting the service and
you're going to get those results that
you're looking for that's really what
what's the biggest part about the price
and I got I got from our conversation
there that you're actually able to tweak
the Beltone first to each individual app
which is as an astounding feature to be
able to do so does that mean I you know
if I have hearing loss that I need to go
in and actually have this you know get
tested and you mentioned a prescription
so actually you know this is a
prescription device that is going to be
tailor-made specifically to my hearing
loss is that right that's correct yeah I
mean every hearing loss is different so
the product needs to be programmed in
such a way suit the hearing loss that
you know or the auteur we call the
audiogram that's basically your hearing
test we utilize the results from the
audiogram to program the hearing is
meant to provide the proper amount of
amplification at each frequency
impressive Hillary do you have any more
questions for Frank we're speaking with
Frank scoopski from Beltone Canada
beltone calm and of course in particular
we're looking at this product called the
Beltone first you've got another one
here that I'd love to yes to show us
it's a brilliantly small device that
does support Bluetooth and communicates
with your iDevice so that's an iphone
ipad you know the various different
apple devices and the app do do we have
the app installed on your on your ipod
for example one of the things that
really stood out to me was the the fact
that you can control this from there but
also as i understand you can answer
phone calls and be able to actually use
your your hearing aid as almost like a
bluetooth headset but without the
problems that are normally associated
with using a hearing aid and the
telephone in you know in conjunction
with one another because you're actually
using your hearing aid to take the call
which is really really a smart idea if I
can ask just and I'm sure you may have a
couple more questions as well Hillary
well we have time speaking with Frank
scoopski Frank what are the risks with a
device such as this which is Bluetooth
connected what are the risks of you know
a wireless device like this getting
intercepted are their privacy concerns
or are there any kinds of concerns with
regards to say hackers intercepting the
signals or anything like that
not that i'm aware of i haven't heard of
any of that i I mean we're operating on
you know sort of an is M frequency band
which is the industrial scientific and
medical band so I haven't I haven't run
across any uses of anybody trying to
intercept anything or you know trying to
communicate maybe directly with the
person yeah you're the hearing
instrument so I don't know maybe they
you know maybe they really are hearing
voices in their head and it's done okay
so so you're nodding we're not
specifically saying that you are hearing
voices in your head though exact okay
well that's that's good and and you know
being that it's Bluetooth I guess there
is a certain level of security already
assumed there so do you have some more
questions for Frank before we wrap up
tonight just one more I saw one in our
our chat room some people were curious
if you've had any work in the area of
cochlear implants uh you know cochlear
implants actually are dealt with we have
a technology arrangement with a cochlear
implant company that actually utilizes
our technology the 2.4 gigahertz
technology but it's not something that
we deal with direct directly began
cochlear implant is something that's a
little bit more of an invasive procedure
that needs to be done by your nose
throat physician we're really talking
about you know hearing instruments that
you know are pretty much non invasive
even though they do go in the ear but
cochlear implants certainly are
something that you know you'd have to go
talk someone would have to go talk to
their doctor and then be referred to the
right person cool how comfortable are
these as far as actually wearing a belt
home first say you know through a
business day well I mean number one they
don't weigh very much so they won't tell
that they won't be a you know a burden
on your ear you know they're very
they're very slim they are what we call
this open fit technology so some a lot
of times we'll just put this very sort
of small dome on the end of it so it
doesn't even really feel like there's
something in your ear so it's what we
call an open fitting before a lot of
times hearing aids you know even with
some custom products they would actually
go in the year I feel like it'd be like
an earplug we'd even put like little air
holes in them like vents to give that
feel
that they're not including the person oh
yeah so yeah they're really really
comfortable I mean and they they can do
so much they're very slim as well and
you know we they come in a lot of
different colors too so that they can
match your you know your hair color or
you know match the the color of your
glasses for instance so that they're
even more discreet and that little small
wire that goes down I mean that piece
actually in itself is is replaceable so
a lot of times you know that'll be the
number one part that possibly could fail
because you know you've got an
electrical component going into a
person's ear or their body for instance
so that's a you know that's a service
that can be forever to write in the
clinicians office well we could go on
and on about how great the batphone
first is as far as the technology behind
it and the actual hearing aid
capabilities we touched a little bit
about its connectivity to I devices even
the fact that you can locate a lost
hearing aid you know it's slipped in
between couch cushions you can bring it
up on your iPhone and find where it is I
like they're just so much thought has
gone on into this i don't have hearing
problems Frank but I'm excited about
these kinds of technologies and
certainly Beltone first specifically
because of the difference that these
things make in the quality of life and
to to me that's something that's really
really important for myself my family my
viewers and if you know if you are in
need of you know just improving your
your ability to hear I encourage you to
check out Beltone calm in particular
this is the Beltone first that we're
looking at tonight and Hillary has two
of them one for the left and one for the
right ear and we actually thanks to Bell
tone Canada and here at category 5 TV we
have a couple of these to give away and
by that I mean a left and a right
Beltone first so what you need to do if
you have or if you have a loved one who
has a hearing loss all you need to do is
go over to cat five dot TV / hearing and
I brought that up on your screen for you
just to assist you in getting over to
that website cat five dot TV / hearing
and you'll find out how you can
qualify for that to that contest this is
category 5 technology TV and tonight we
are talking with Frank scoopski from
beltone Canada Frank it is such a
pleasure to have you here with us
tonight and very very you know
innovative product I think this you know
as an outsider this to me really looks
like a hearing a hearing aid that you
know if I was struggling with hearing
loss this is the kind of device that I
would be going for beltone of course
being a long-standing company that
really cares about the quality of care
that they're providing for their their
customers or their patients or what
however you you say it really you know
it's it becomes a relationship with the
patient because you're improving their
their life all around when you give them
you know the gift of being able to hear
as hillary was saying a friend who
hasn't been able to hear the rustling of
paper in 15 years put one of these in
their ear and all of a sudden had that
ability is just you know that's amazing
to me very cool Frank thank you for
being here at category 5 technology TV
thanks for having me today this is
category 5 technology TV and i'm your
host Robbie Ferguson no I'm Hillary Romo
thanks him thanks for letting me explore
my world online i'm not a professional
interpreter or anything i don't want
people think I'm professional
interpreter I'm not but I do know how to
sign so very cool gift to have hopefully
you were able to understand some of that
and yeah so make sure you check out the
contest people get online website you
definitely want to check out that
contest because you know I as I say this
just improves the quality of life for
someone with hearing loss and if you or
somebody that you love has that issue
that you really want to improve this is
the way to do it and that is cat five
dot TV / hearing would love for you to
win but in the meantime and as well get
over to belltown comm check them out
check out what makes them so incredibly
special in the whole you know realm of
hearing aid products what makes them
different that is Beltone calm very cool
very cool well it's just about time for
the news people are wondering I will not
be signing the news nor will I just so
we can get there 3ds excreting stories
these are the top stories from the
category 5 TV news room the UK
government has revealed an intelligence
service GCHQ can snoop on British
citizens use of Facebook Twitter and
Google without a warrant because the
firms are based overseas Oh technicality
snake a UK spy boss Charles far said
that such platforms are classified as
external communications the policy rows
were filled as a part of an ongoing
legal battle with campaign group pie a
privacy international or p.i.p I said
the interpretation of the law patronizes
the British people it is the first time
that the UK has commented on how the
UK's legal framework allows the mass
interception of communications as
outlined by us whistleblower Edward
Snowden in his leaks about global
government surveillance can I just say
okay we know that web hosting companies
have been doing it for years where you
know it's let's host stuff in Canada
because then you know that it's
protected under the Privacy Act and
write a safer way to do it so I
understand companies doing that but
government's saying okay yeah we can spy
on you we can compromise the
transmission of data between you and say
Canada or you and the United States
because its overseas seems like we're
grabbing a gray area and expanding upon
it upon it but that's a little ominous
because what does a company do like
Google or like facebook when ya a
government can step in and do that and
what do you do in the UK if that is a
concern if you're using online services
you know and entering personal
information into these websites and
knowing that your government is allowed
to without a warm
intercept any of that information freaky
weird stuff people where do you draw the
line when you know other governments say
oh well we can hack into American
servers because it's a bit not it's not
unusual I know yeah I don't know what to
say about that when you go to the next
story I try not to think about it I
really hmm scientists say they have
devised a helmet that can quickly
determine whether a patient has had a
stroke it could speak diagnosis and
treatment of stroke to boost chances of
recovery the scientists say the wearable
cap bounces microwaves off the brain to
or claw deep inside the Swedish
scientists who made the device plan to
give it to ambulance crews to test after
successful results in the early studies
with 45 patients okay for one thing just
let's get this just put this out in the
open I won't even stand near a microwave
let alone strap one to my noggin and
hope for the best I suppose that you
know as a medical tool they sometimes
subject you too dangerous radiations in
order to determine course of action
that's true that seems kind of like I
don't fry your brain I feel about that
yeah I don't know moving on moving on to
other things I just keep getting freaked
out this news is freaky sorry okay
people it gets better mm-hmm sites like
Google and Bing Maps will be able to use
their higher quality satellite images
thanks to US government restrictions
being lifted companies had not been
allowed to make use of images or feature
smaller than 50 centimeters were visible
but one imaging firm digitalglobe said
it would be able to sell images that
showed features as small as 31
centimeters what that is is in terms of
reference 31 centimeters is like plus
millimeters Oh centimeters per
centimeter is like that right yeah so 31
I don't know what's that like this much
yes I think
I don't know I know I'm Canadian I'm
supposed to know all my sin to me today
freaky it's freaky weird people from
space they can see my pen and they are
rightfully allowed to do so freaking me
out anyways digital club says that new
satellites would be launched to take
advantage of this ruling the company's
world view 3 satellite is due to launch
in August and we'll be able to show key
features such as manholes and mailbox
full oh sure as the government is
monitoring these kinds of developments
there thinking hmm wouldn't be nice to
be able to see manholes and mailboxes
from space I don't I don't know what it
all means of course there's the there's
the whole concern about privacy yes that
goes without saying I think we're
something like this makes sense is when
a plane goes down in the ocean and they
have no way to figure out where it went
that would be helpful for that's where
to me it makes sense why don't we have
that kind of technology when we can
because of bureaucracy and people's
concerns over privacy and it makes sense
why I'm scared that someone's gonna be
looking at my mailbox from screws yeah
what says they also want to use it for
general public use the higher quality
images kind of other use as well as you
mentioned disaster relief agricultural
efforts etc okay so there's some good of
course but there's some freaky potential
for you everything's freaky with you in
the news time I freaked out all the time
I think that there are some really good
use I use google satellite view quite
often not quite as much as I guess I use
Street View now street views even
creepier exact but it's awesome and if
privacy laws forbid them from being able
to do that then it would you know it
wouldn't be as easy for me to get
directions where I got to go that's true
I like being able to see the
intersection how I'm going to see it
when i get there so I know oh yeah I
turn left at the Tim Hortons
but you see the printing on your
newspaper or something I mean like
that's great yeah food for thought okay
well for something completely not creepy
but you probably will enjoy it as long
last some japanese researchers have
created an intelligent automatic sliding
door no longer must you wait patiently
for the door to slowly general been no
more must be frustrated by jours
accidentally opening when you are by
this intelligent drawer even has the
ability to match the size of the opening
depending on the number of people
walking towards it and if it detects
someone running towards it it'll slide
open at max speed yes this is the
glorious realization of the Star Trek
sliding door that opens just in time for
you to cross the threshold that is cool
love seeing technologies realize that
started in Star Trek there's a video of
this on our website news room category 5
DV you gotta see it I think where it's
really really brilliant is the fact that
it intelligently knows whether you are
wanting to go through the door yeah how
does it know what I use your brains it
had its ends microwave radiation through
your brain freaky actually it's freaky
some of them for kids freak yeah but if
I think I think of a supermarket where
you know you walk by the door to put
your cart back and the door opens wide
and you feel the heat come out because
it's 40 below out here and 50 above them
there because they got to regulate it
and keep you know keep it pressurized
and everything and the amount of wasted
energy there that's true walking bots
trim so that it would intelligently know
that yeah this guy wants to walk through
the door and it sounds sci-fi and that's
why you've got to check out that video
because it's actually legit too legit to
quit yo it's incredible I want one of
these doors on the new studio maybe we
have a budget for it
will something our way we'll talk about
that in the minute anyways you can check
out that video on our website and get
the full stories online at category 5 da
TV / newsroom the category five BB
newsroom is researched by roy w Nash
with contributions by Tennessee Frank
and are amazing kini of viewers if you
hear something freaky or maybe not
freaky and you think it's worthy of
honor mention send us an email at
category at newsroom I category 5 TV
from the newsroom I'm Hillary Rumble
thanks hill tonight show is brought to
you in part by Beltone learn why Bell
tone is the choice of millions when it
comes to fantastic hearing care check
out Beltone first a revolutionary made
for iphone hearing aid visit Beltone
calm or for free trial give them a call
one eight hundred Beltone now and that
of course is Bell tone with one L this
is category five technology TV i'm your
host Robbie ferguson so nice to have you
here tonight I'm Hillary Rumble the
signing super snack there you go signing
superstar the 3 s's ok so we alluded to
it what's the big news hill I don't
think anyone can handle it cuz I know
I'm freaking out are you it's unite to
it I'm I say to your kids it's your new
you tell them studio Diaz ago whoo-wee
fanfares there you go everybody who
participated in our IndieGoGo campaign I
want to thank you personally anytime you
know as much as I can through the
broadcast but the contributions now we
were originally going to renovate my
garage into a new studio space that was
the dream because we want to get
category 5 into a permanent home or at
least into you know something other than
Robbie's baseman when Robbie has a
growing family of you know three
children my oldest is nine now and it's
hard to believe you saw her on the show
just well one week ago was returned ein
Thursday so but that didn't work out I
mean going into the garage was my my
goal originally but the renovations were
just going to cost so much money and we
got to about said
nineteen percent of our goal in our
fundraising campaign and while that
doesn't sound like a lot there it put
some money in the bank to help us as we
planned out what we were going to do
next so there is a local company which
you're going to learn more about in the
future who has actually contributed
donated some studio space to category 5
they had some office space that was not
being used so that's very very exciting
because it just couldn't be done you
know based on the we're volunteers here
and we sell very little advertising and
and we're supported by your viewer to
contributions donations and that's how
we are able to maintain this the success
of the show and being able to broadcast
around the world every week but with
this studio space of course we've got to
do some renovations we've got to do a
fair bit of cleaning and hasn't been
used for several years so it is it's a
bit of a mess there's been some water
damage but they have fixed the leak they
fix the leak right away but the damage
is still there as far as some drywall is
bubbled out and stuff so we've got to
tear out a bit of drywall we've got to
put it down but all those things are
completely doable through the volunteers
who are going to be helping us out and
through your contributions that that
were sent in during our IndieGoGo
campaign so that huge bill of having to
build a studio in Robbie's garage which
needed reframing and insulation and
soundproofing and the flow of air and
conduits run for four internet cables
and all this stuff that expense doesn't
have to happen anymore now we've got a
space that structurally is sound we have
to rework the inside we've got to paint
the whole place because it is a mess but
it is structurally sound it has walls it
has insulation and it's good to go and
it's being contributed to the show for a
year and then we'll see what happens
after 12 more time so so your
contributions are what has you know
brought us to this point and and has
made it so that we can say yeah let's
let's go ahead with this we know that
the I guess the the biggest expenses
that we're going to encounter that we've
never had to deal with before being that
category 5 is always being based in my
house right right you got to think about
that sep 7th season here and it's always
been in
house in my family home so we have
shared insurance we have shared our
internet connection which is a big one
when you broadcast live every week we've
shared all the you know the heat and all
of those kinds of expenses with the
household because we're in the house so
it's never been a problem now we're
dealing with okay it's going to be a
separate space it's a little bit you
know of a leap of faith and we are
counting on Viewer contributions and you
know your ability to perhaps take on the
show in such a way maybe you want to
contribute ten dollars a month or even
five dollars a month through the
contribution a cat5 TV / see that would
make a world of difference if you know
several of you viewing from all around
the world if you would do that then
that's going to cover all those at it
you know new expenses but we're really
really excited about what it means for
the show I still really want to get a
new camera because we're dealing with
the failed camera over the past little
while we're using a webcam which is
keeping things going but it's you know
it's only a temporary solution so that's
something that we do really need to to
do so our IndieGoGo supporters people
who supported us through that campaign I
promised that the funds that were
provided are going to go toward yes
studio D even if we didn't meet our goal
and for the past few months have been
trying to figure okay well how that how
is that going to happen now that we know
then the funds are going to go directly
into transforming that space into an
appropriate studio for category 5 making
it as as good as can possibly be we may
see some green screen we're not going to
have a full virtual studio but we are
going to have some chroma key and we're
very excited to have a larger space
that's the big thing I pretty cramped
here yeah we're trying to stand the
frame but I mean might be owing to bad
it'd be nice to have a little bit more
space for movement and and who knows
what wild things we can come up with a
force base and you have allergies I mean
silly note you don't think about these
things I know but being in Robbie's
house we've got a cat we've got a dog
we've got Birds we've no no I'm dying a
little tonight sorry that's how with his
and we don't really think about these
things as you watch the show but yeah
it's the way it is and so having a
separate studio space with none of that
kind of environmental allergens going on
it's going to be quite nice for for
those who are affected by that ie me but
she does well oh thank you mr.
naturopathy is asking the chat room if
the show is going to be live more than
once a week once we get into our new
studio and fact is is that we are
volunteers we have to keep that in mind
the space is being donated your
contributions helped us to continue to
do the show that's how we're able to
afford you know the expenses that do
occur especially now that we're going to
have to pay for insurance and internet
connectivity and stuff like that so it
is a tuesday night every tuesday night
at seven I don't see that changing to be
honest with you but I'm you know open to
we're looking at some some things that
Hilary and I have been talking about but
because we want to see category 5 in
various regions of the world but
generally speaking we're still we're
keeping our day jobs we're not category
5 hasn't hired us and miss paying us
unless you want to bring us on the road
to your hometown yeah that's it so you
know if if we were open to that yes
that's a different thing we cool rev d
jank has a coffee maker idea Hamilton
Beach makes a combo unit which does
either a full pot or k cups whoo you
know what I think we're gonna do is
probably like instant coffee so no
because there's all these little
consideration see Rev d gent gets it
we're gonna have to furnish the whole
place I'm gonna buy a toilet seat well
that's a must seeing as how there's more
women on the show then yeah yeah that's
a must so I'm very very excited about it
folks we're gonna have some fun over the
next little while so I'll be able to be
a part of it right because I anticipate
some backstage footage happening there
is going to be some backstage footage
the one thing that you know one of the
things i promised her in the indiegogo
campaign is that those of you who
contributed you're gonna have full
backstage access to the build well the
build was originally going to be in my
garage so we've got internet i don't
know if we're gonna have internet in
time but let's get this i get the keys
on july first this is tap to very
quickly two weeks from today
wild we're in so we're doing a cleaning
party which is you know basically I'm
gonna feed everybody and and have snacks
and stuff well you know I think many
hands make light work just saying right
so if there's enough of us we're going
to get the place cleaned out and tip-top
shape ready to be drywalled and painted
and stuff like that and then from there
it's really just let's see where it
takes us let's see what what this does
the show I think what's interesting
about category 5 2 is where a community
it's not just a show so this is as much
your show as it is mine or Hillary's and
it's an exciting time because we're just
the ones that you see but it's really
all about all of us and what the show is
about so I'm excited to see where where
it's going to go stay tuned loads of
suggestions and things coming into the
chat room I just can say you know email
me live at category 5 TV if you want to
get your suggestions in how you want to
how you want to see the studio you know
if you've got ideas things like that if
your local if you want to lend a hand
let us know that'd be great if you have
the funds to do so please get over to
cat five DVD /c and contribute to the
show monthly donations are really going
to be a huge help these days as we move
into this kind of an arrangement if you
can't do that just a one-time donation
would be extremely extremely helpful and
we appreciate it very very much so thank
you everyone for your support and let's
get ready that's gonna be a fun time I'm
excited season 8 is coming I can't
believe it and we're gonna be in a new
studio that's five times the size of
what we're in right now who's we easy so
it's gonna be great it is gonna be great
thanks TN Frank I'm still gonna call you
that thanks everybody see a la tia in
the chatroom nice to see you ok do we
have any of your questions that have
come in a course of the show we do um
here in my little mailbag over here
voodoo Sandman hey boo do Sandman from
Earth oh thank you for clarifying on for
us yeah um hi Robbie maybe you could
review android x86 I guess is this a
follow-up thing I don't want my shirt I
use it to tether on
rooted cell phone with a share screen
app is the same resource footprint but
it won't show and grub dual boot with
Lennox only in windows I would like to
have a dual monitor support as well may
you live long and thrive all right
android x86 cool run android on your pc
we took a look at a similar kind of
product way back on the show i'm gonna
really really quickly so maybe this is
kind of a follow up well that was an old
show okay hmm but it may not sure but
isn't it a neat idea to be able to run
say android OS on your virtual machine
that is cool because then you can you
know you can do a lot with that very
cool android dash x86 dot org is where
you're gonna find it huh looks like we
looked at android vm to create an OpenGL
accelerated android 4.1 virtual machine
and we looked at that on episode number
289 so similar kind of idea i believe
but cool thanks for the tip check it out
folks if you're interested in getting
android over to a pc very cool already
thanks for your question I have another
question here from richard p alright i
recently started watching the show and i
really like it my Christian is about
linux it seems to me that Linux is
basically for geeks and the whole
command line thing is not for me at
least for now I'd really like to try it
out but I think that need to find a good
book that explains linux to someone who
is complete linux newbie can you suggest
something well I'll tell you what
besides our show yeah of course kind of
great five is the place this is welcome
to linux what do you want to do today
get on the internet alright use an
office suite so you need excel so we're
going to use LibreOffice calc
uh what else do you want to do today
play a game yeah I like games all right
go for it all right is linux just for
geeks I think there was a day and and I
understand that you're watching category
five and you're seeing me use linux and
you're thinking he's such a geek well
yes yes no getting around it but I do
get excited about things like Linux I
talked about it with belltown it's
something that improves the quality of
life linux is that as far as operating
systems go do you need to use the
terminal do you see me always okay well
I want to play scorched 3d so I need to
go in here and I need to as user slash
bin slash school oh I can't figure out
the command scourge or can I just gonna
kill game some just over there just open
it yeah it's not it doesn't have to be
about the terminal I'll tell you what I
tend to do and if you're getting that
impression from category 5 I've TV I'll
i like to show you the terminal so that
you won't be afraid of it right because
if you've seen something done in a more
sophisticated way then you understand
how it's how it how it works and i'm
more of a computer scientist than i am a
high school computer teacher no offense
to computer teachers in high school but
rather than show you how to create how
to use excel i would rather show you how
to crew how to actually create the data
and work with the data and work with the
computer I'd rather you understand what
it is that you're doing so when I click
on something on the menu if I have a
button that says root terminal and I can
click on that and I can enter my
password and now all of a sudden I'm
route well that's fine but isn't it
better for me to actually understand
that if I go into
terminal and I type in su and I become a
elevated users or for example maybe
that's a better way for me because I
like to understand what's actually
happening in the background so do you
need to use terminal absolutely not
linux these days is set up so that a
novice user somebody who has never used
a computer or ever used linux you
probably you could delete the terminal
from the menu and you'd never know the
difference it's probably safe to do that
and you never you know it's great lots
of people are saying the chat room
they're like I've taught people who are
over 60 I did it for my wife if I did it
for my my mom exactly and we actually
did it here on the show for Saturday
made us so next time she's on the show
why don't you give her the question you
know how's linux working out for you
because sasha is a self-professed not
guru as far as computers go fair enough
she uses a phone to do all of her
communication she's never had that you
know like computer she just got her
laptop she was begging for one for
christmas santa brought her one we put
linux on it let's find out how she's
doing and ask her this question how many
times have you had to use the terminal
she'll be like the what what what I just
bring up the internet if I want on the
internet I bring up chrome you that I'm
windows yeah it's the same thing as far
as how to use your computer yeah love it
thank you for the comment loeffler to
your question next week I think we have
time for one more Robbie this comes to
us from Dawn 43-0 85 hey Don just
watched your latest show this is about
two weeks ago and loved it amusing video
one person mentioned Manjaro and I've
been using it since December and each
upgrade has it has gone really well
probably about 12 by now one thing I
user must do is read the stable release
notes for the latest update it often
will know potential problems and steps
on how to avoid them you would advise to
use them in jail for oh you start your
advice to use them in jail forums was
good also because I've had many
questions answered
way through the forum people are prompt
to reply Oh take care and I enjoy your
enthusiasm Cheers this is a comment a
question yeah well I appreciate the kind
of comments we love hearing from you
manjaro is you know an up-and-coming
kind of its rising in popularity and
certainly we're seeing that with the
community here category 5 and with
manjaro with ubuntu with any of these
distros you know i use point linux they
have their individual communities and
that's a brilliant thing here at
category 5 and get into the chat room
and start asking questions and there
will be people that will give you
answers we're a comparatively small
community when you think about how large
the Ubuntu community is for example but
there's always somebody there to help so
if you're trying Manjaro yeah get on to
the the forums and see who's there to
help you and I'm sure you're gonna find
people that are willing to help oh yeah
that's the difference yes you find I
don't know if you've used any other
operating systems and you get into the
forums and you ask questions and people
start saying what are you dumb and just
such a turn it's just that put off as
far as you know come on I just need help
linux category 5 technology TV I think
you're going to find that communities
are genuinely and all across the board
here that help yes and I think that's
the mindset of linux and open source
it's just we're all in this together
it's a community and we're doing it
together so totally welcome glad to hear
you've installed Manjaro and it's doing
well for you yeah now I know we're at
nearing the end of the show but rising
actually a quick question I think you
can answer rather quickly I'll do my
best so somebody checked out sashes tour
of studio D or just yes let me do it yes
we're gonna be gone from here I know
sentimental and post a question on the
Google+ page what is the name of the app
that we use to play music cards on the
iPad this one and even when i do the
applause and stuff like
it's actually pretty cool it's IAC they
do have a website if you want to check
it out if and I actually it's time I
have to I have to start the female deer
I see music how hard is that right so I
I see can be found on the web let's do a
quick search and by IAC that is the it
both of a lot of charges yes against in
specific instant audio cart well let's
try that that's available for and the
itunes app store cool there okay so I AC
being instant audio card well out there
you that's what we use is our soundboard
it works fantastically well it really
does is it available on other devices
let's c is for ipad there are other cart
wells floor and that's audio cartwheel
calm there are other cart wells for
android and we used to use one but then
our android tablet stopped working so we
had to switch over the ipad and becca
was good enough to loan us for Ryback to
the other
see great great out well that's all the
time that we have tonight hard to
believe flew right by thank you to our
sponsors beltone and do check the mail
Beltone calm these are great cool you
have a fantastic week he'll thanks for
all your hard work join us next tuesday
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
