welcome to category 5 technology TV what
you're about to experience is a free
worldwide interactive broadcast from
Ontario Canada we broadcast live every
tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time get
your questions in join the community
chaperonage purple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5e weeks
and now let's Kim here's your host Ravi
Ferguson welcome to episode number 189
of category 5 technology TV Bobby
Ferguson and over there in the newsroom
hey hey hey everyone welcome to the show
I got lost coming up in the newsroom to
want to hear about it yes we did yes you
do okay whoa coming up in the newsroom
the internet television and phone
services have been down in parts of
manitoba canada since sunday an android
feature had landed google and yet
another big lawsuit sony's playstation
network is coming back online region by
region slowly but surely and the last
and step foot on the moon wants to go
back but this time he wants to set up
camp and buy a rare isotope from you
feel Earth engine on earth stick around
the Beast rays are coming up and
understands hey thanks so much we're
looking forward to that we're gonna be
hearing a game from Hillary in about two
half hour tonight we are going to be
continuing web design number nine hokie
doodle just rockin it and tonight we are
going to be I hope to actually get to
the point where we're working the body
of the site itself like we're we're
actually going to be placed in the text
okay not sitting together a little bit
still got a little bit of a menu system
to put together we're going to fix up
the z-index of
one element that's falling behind the
the Polaroid stick around it's more
exciting than it sounds what's this
about a z-index that's it I'm gonna go
over to Perillo yeah naps everyone's
taking nap okay what else have we got
going on we've got lots of fewer points
to give away tonight we've got some
exciting stuff people in the chat room
or joining us make sure you get into the
chat room as well category 5 TV I
personally want to just give a quick
shout out and thanks to viewers who have
pitched in this week with our financial
needs especially with regards to to the
server replacement that we're working
towards it is a rather large expense
that that we don't have the I guess the
what do you call that the capital to to
absorb and so it really means a lot to
have viewers standing by us and pitching
in and donating to to help us with that
and and I tell you every little bit
helps honestly because even a small
donation is really making a big
difference that said if you're if you're
able to do more than then that that
helps us to get there faster so that we
can get through some of the problems
that we've had over the past little
while and speaking of being able to
contribute to category 5 flatter is a
service that the as I understand it is
quite big in Germany and what they do
it's a it's a neat service where and
those who use it are obviously familiar
with it but it's a way that you can
flatter sites and services and and blogs
and people that that are providing
services and shows like category 5 by
contributing just a small amount by
clicking on flattered it's a different
kind of mechanism for donating so
somebody might have you know five
dollars sitting in there flatter account
and if they flatter five people each of
those five people get one dollar kind of
to put it into real easy speech check it
out but so the thing is is that they've
changed their policies over the past
well it was Sunday that they change
things up and very excited about that
because it allows us to offer flatter on
our website category five dot TV you'll
see if you go support us and donate that
there's a flatter us button as well as
that on the newsroom side newsroom
category five TV there is a flatter
button for every single news article and
it's just a neat little way that you can
that you can pitch in and flatter us and
say thanks for some of the content that
we're providing very cool stuff I really
like the service is cool let's see pyros
rock is asking hey do you guys still
have the audio feed and unfortunately
and that kind of goes into the same sort
of stuff that we're saying unfortunately
because the server issues that we had
after a power surge we've had to strip
down on a lot of the services in mp3
feat unfortunately is one of the
services that we had to simply put on
hold so it's not currently available I
apologize for that pires Rock looks like
they're on their mobile device and
hoping to listen to the show tonight and
regrettably that's not currently
available but I do hope that we'll be
able to bring that back very soon and
that and and the support of our
community is is is a huge help in and
pushing that forward and of course I'm
doing everything I can to appealing to
advertisers and things like that click
on banners for us and anything else that
you can do on the site you see some
banners and some advertisements it does
help if you if you click those is every
little bit it's like a drop in the
bucket but every time you click on a
banner if we get you know even a penny
but it eventually has yeah because you
get so many people clicking on it so
well unfortunately a gamoto we're not in
a position to go through like insurance
or anything like that we've been through
that before where our deductible is so
high for things that it's it's not it's
not worth it when the insurance is just
going to go up and then you look at but
one of the things that I've been looking
at we buy our UPS's our uninterruptible
power supplies we have traditionally
gone with commercial grade you
SS and these are the higher end they're
supposed to be the higher end devices
that are not supposed to let the surges
through and this and that but as you'll
remember the higher end you get the you
start to lose that warranty coverage and
i was talking to somebody in it and it
just you know something I might start
looking at is should we actually
downgrade our ups and get into something
where if something like this were ever
to happen again hey this UPS may have
been a cheaper device it may be more
prone to issues but it carries a 65,000
dollar guarantee that's something that
we're considering at this point but not
something that we can jump into right
now bead okay a way that we can sort of
say thanks to you is through viewer
points we've got a lot of viewers who
are working their way up to the 1000
point mark and that's very exciting
because that's when you're going to
start to be able to see some awards
being dished out on our website we've
got a tour dough from Germany who sent
me another email this week and said Here
I am with my cardigan cat5 TV / tuesday
if you're wondering what the deal is
with the cardigan he says I swear it's a
different cardigan I don't know what do
you what do you think I'm not sure it
has a zip-up future same color let's
let's go back to last week okay here's
this week toward oh here's last week oh
they look very really these are
strikingly similar I still cardigans lad
it is so much so that if if you walked
into a store and saw them side by side
on a rack you might think hey those are
very strikingly similar cardigans now
the one thing I do notice is look at
this this one has the stripes on the
shoulder whereas all the way through
this one has them right down the chest
there this looks like it is indeed a
different cardigan
in which case toward oh-hoo-hoo quite
obviously appreciates zip-up beige
cardigans with stripes is eligible for
100 viewer points tonight I am
interested to see how many he has on the
same color yeah actually cure I think
he's actually like put them all side by
side that's astounding like I picture
you know like Mickey Mouse going into
his closet and every outfit is exactly
the same and toward Oh has this closet
full of cardigans and he has been
waiting and waiting for an opportunity
to show it off to be able to show them
off and to be able to turn these into
viewer points or something along those
lines so when we offered 100 viewer
points first he would be ready cardigans
he not only ready but he was pretty
excited I sure so much so that torto is
looking he's really oh I think you've
got a fan toward oh also sent a picture
of a cake that he created this week oh
dear why does nobody make any drastic he
says it tasted really good I'm jealous I
didn't get cake this weekend the the
recipe was in well you've got a cake
it's just you I didn't quite eat it are
you blushing can tell on camera can you
so the cake was apparently delicious but
the the recipe was in English and so he
worked his way through and and I think
you got most stuff right he said he says
that up here at the top it actually says
we oh yeah I mean we and then a big
heart love Krista that's weak ah ok so
how many points should we give him for
cake that is a lot of work double the
cardigan doubled again like you'd like
give him another hundred points I thanks
to total 200 points for toward oh yeah
for today's yeah wow you're going to
learn that you know that was a pretty
cool cake that's really cool if
you send us a picture live at category 5
TV just be creative we've got gadwal who
who says this shirt has a caption on it
you can't really read it in the picture
but it says I overpay for mac OS 10
instead of using linux and there's the
shirt where did he get that picture okay
so what else would we got okay so we
gotta give him 10 points for that too I
don't know how many points do you think
that's worth there we'll let you decide
because it's kind of your deal now we
talked about a like a big big prize for
four shirts but I really want to see
someone like silk screen a shirt or like
really full like a sure thing you can
walk around town that you can actually
wear and like videotape it and put it on
youtube that you're that you're wearing
this shirt that you silk-screened we've
also got Megan from Canada who says i
love category 5 and there she is in her
cardigan perfectly eligible for a
hundred points guaranteed what's going
on over there I just love these pictures
that people are sending yes they are
pretty wild pretty while I want a cake I
want somebody to make me a cake they
will definitely feel like cupcakes
mm-hmm I'm just saying then that's like
multiple cakes yeah that's almost that's
not that eligible I think send in your
pictures to live at category 5 TV that's
all the the time that we have for
pictures tonight I know that there are
some other pictures that were submitted
this week and we will we'll take a look
at those on next week's show and an
award points accordingly do we decide
how many points were going to give to
cadwal for the shirt I don't know it's
an awesome chat room chat room you let
us know how many points we should give
gadwal for that shirt and will average
it out unless somebody give something
like 10 million then we we won't take
that into account for the average dad
well well hey welcome to the show we're
going to have a lot of fun tonight
already having fun
we've got 500 150 points 100 so yeah it
looks like we're we're going to be in
around that cool all right gang shall we
jump right into our series i believe we
shall we've got a lot to cover tonight i
want to mention that perfect boom to
number six is currently embedded testing
those of you who have been asking about
it we're going to talk a little bit more
about it if we have time tonight but it
is embedded testing and it is going to
be released on Monday that's the
software this can allow you to set up
some really cool add-ons for your ubuntu
11.04 as well as everything all the way
back to Hardy all right bring up your
web browser too oh I should start
because because we edit these things
down I'm learning welcome to part 9 of
the web development series here at
category 5 technology TV son of a Hurst
a little script for the show is that we
I practice that small cycle times which
one sounds bad yeah I was pretty good
thanks my name is Robbie Ferguson I'm
crystal cool all right so you know we're
gonna add at this down cat five dot TV /
web dev and that's the place where
you're going to be able to just watch
this segment as is so yeah we got it
we're going to be conscious of those
viewers you're also going to be
available on a DVD set we're already
talking to somebody about printing it so
trying to get a printer in the u.s. to
do the printing for us so that we can we
can ship it as they're ordered so we
will make that available for you cat
five TV / web dev and when you're there
you'll see that we have a just an
amazing deal to give you for web hosting
seventy dollars that will give you a
full year of web site hosting and as
well we're going to throw in a free
domain name registration and that's your
chance to get
started with your new website and
fantastic price fantastic opportunity to
get some hosting going and you can renew
it at the end of the year and keep going
with it and here's something cool
somebody said to me well I love what
you're doing with the web development
series but I'd really like to be able to
build websites for customers and build
websites for friends and and host them
but how can I do that now if you want
the freedom anes and you want to have
them in separate accounts that's cool
you can go through and you can you can
use that coupon code as many times as
you like however I just let you know
that what you can do within this coupon
you get your seventy dollar one year
hosting and you can actually host and
basically an unlimited number of domains
and web sites within that hosting
account so you pay seventy dollars for
the year and you can put you know if you
have a hundred websites you can put them
all in that account but then you need to
have a domain for each one so well is
that going to cost a hundred dollars or
whatever so we're going to give you
access to the domains for depending on
what they are anywhere from nine dollars
and ninety-nine cents us to 1495 us and
you'll be able to do that once you've
registered so you start with the seventy
dollars you get your one domain and then
if you want to add another domain it
will simply cost you ten dollars and you
can add that to your account and that
will just be added and you can now both
of those domains will go to that account
so really really opens you up to being
able to do a lot it's cat five dot TV /
web dev great opportunity for you
especially if you're just starting up as
a web developer or wanting to get
multiple websites up or just one still a
great deal alright so that said what
we're going to do tonight is go to demo
dot cat5 TV / double-oh-seven and there
we are that's where we left off last
week and you'll see that we ran at a
time we were looking at the z-index
thing here and we didn't get a chance to
to determine why it was falling
behind now let's see I had I'd like to
give credit where credit's due and I've
got a viewer who commented on the
websites i'm going to bring up our
website in the meantime i'm going to
show you how we can fix that straight
off the get-go so i'm going to bring up
my ftp application and tonight i'm going
to do things a little bit differently in
the past I've been editing the files
locally and then and then manually
uploading them tonight I'm going to use
the built-in editing features of
filezilla so check this out what we're
going to do is a little bit different
tonight but I want to show you how this
works and if you have been following
along up to this point you know how to
do it the other way as well so I'm going
to go into the double 07 folder and here
are my files and what I'm going to do
here differently with filezilla which is
available on Windows Linux whatever
platform you want I'm going to just
right click on the file and go view or
edit and that's going to launch in my
default application for that for that
which is in my case G at it so what's
really really cool about this is now if
I make a change to this file whatever it
be right and then save it filezilla is
automatically going to say here you've
made a change do you want to upload it
yes done very very cool so that's what
we're going to do tonight streamline it
a little boy yeah we got a lot to get
through alright that's usually how I
actually work I work the invert of what
we have been doing I i'll edit it
directly on the server using files LNG
at it and then when I'm done I download
the site but there's a disadvantage to
that too in in our case tonight we're
working on a development site nobody has
the URL other than you and it's not a
client site if this was a client site
and it was live and you're making it
changes on the fly then you're probably
best to try those changes locally then
upload them when they're done otherwise
you run the risk of effecting a live
site so you don't want your customer or
people who are viewing your site to see
a work in the program
so you want them to see the final
product so you work on it locally then
upload it to probably a test server or
something like that and then upload it
to the website when you're done so okay
so first of all okay so I've got my
index open now going to open my
stylesheet same way all right so two
ways that this can be done one okay so
you see our Z indexes are all correct
real kind of lazy way is to take my Z
index and say okay change that to a
negative number and that's going to make
absolutely certain that that's going to
fall behind okay and of course according
to w3schools and i'll post a link
negative numbers in as the index value
are perfectly acceptable as far as
standards compliance he goes but tonight
what I want to do instead I want to do
this I guess what you say a more proper
way which is to fix the problem and that
is that I've got elements that are
positioned relatively or absolutely that
are falling over top of a floating
element so what I need to do is I need
to take that floating element and I need
to make it so that it's positioned
relative and just just to greet out to
TS girl who was actually the first two
to make that comment on the show notes
for episode number 188 so let's do it
okay so this method was to set it as a
negative Z index which won't always work
because it does depend on other
variables but here's my polaroid which
is the element that is floating right
saying okay so what we want to do is go
position relative which we're not going
to get too high into at this point
because there's a lot of stuff now
you'll see that that is going to wear
that should work just the same way it
looks the same as setting the z-index
differently we're not going to get too
heavily into relative positioning
basically the difference between that
and say absolute positioning is relative
positioning is your element still holds
the same area on the page but you're
able to then
move it around it's it almost takes it
to a different spot on the on the on the
axis of basically where you're editing
it you'll learn a lot about that when
you're if you try moving something
around using relative positioning but
we're not getting into that but by
setting it to relative positioning there
now we fix the problem that are absolute
positioned div which is going to become
our menu was falling at the wrong z
index or the z axis so think of your
website as having up down left right and
back and forward so far away from you
and close to you the z-index allows you
to use that z axis okay so let's grab
our mock-up that we've we've got you can
of course download all of the files that
are necessary for tonight's lesson at
five dot TV / web dev if you have
questions for us you can post those to
Krista in the chat room category 5 TV
you'll remember how we sample colors
just to to find out what a color is to
set the background color for example
really really quick way now I can go
through this is in the game I can find
the the blue bar really really easily
okay so that's what I'll do is I'll
actually select that layer the blue bar
okay I've got my Doppler tool or they
call up the color picker tool and then I
single click on the blue area remember
that's the highlighted layer and what
that does is it set my foreground color
to the to the color of that what is
going to be our div so I'm going to copy
that the ed 8 F F that's the hexadecimal
color code for it all right right now
it's set to FFF we're going to change
that you remember FFF is actually white
so now that I've changed that refresh
the page at double oh seven
and you'll see that it's the blue that
the Christa had used in the mock-up you
think that's funny don't you but it's
just conveniently awesome that's all it
is it's just we've infused that little
extra awesomeness into the show tonight
demo cat5 TV / double-oh-seven all right
thanks Krista okay back at our mock-up
here's what we want to do we're going to
grab that square marquee rectangular
select tool I've got words that I make
up for everything and i'm going to
highlight i'm going to show you Chris to
something that I love about the GIMP
that I don't love about Photoshop oh
please don't hold back noble I do we got
understand Oh what's different and we're
gonna see what's all right so we're
going to create a marquee and I want it
to be this thing and oh no i've gone to
high now with the gimp you can actually
grab that you can resize that Marky
extremely simply see that so I don't
have to try again there's my marquee and
I can change it so now what I want to do
you like that that's pretty nifty that's
a cool feature isn't it how you could
mock such an awesome feature I'm just
now probably already has it under their
belt they're just waiting they're like
oh maybe with cs6 when you spend another
thousand dollars will throw that in for
you I like I like you have a lot of time
that's all yeah all all about just
bringing out a little at a time or we
can jump right to the the free program
and get it all now I'm so I'm kidding
and serious at the very same time
seriousness in every year i've copied
that merged to my clipboard when you
copy something merged okay i'm going to
show you a little trick here with i'm
going to highlight a weird area here ok
and I'm going to go edit copy now i'm
going to go edit paste as new image and
you'll see well hey that's not what i
highlighted
because all i did was i copied the
currently selected layer so with copy
merged instead or that's the that's the
photoshop term copy merged in the gimp
it's called copy visible what it's
actually doing is it's copying every
everything from every layer go new image
and you'll see that that's actually
pasted the entire thing rather than just
the existing layer so that's the
difference there so what I'm going to do
is I'm going to highlight a section of
this blue guy because I want to get the
height i'm going to edit copy visible
edit paste adds new and i don't have to
do that there are other ways and i can
even use the i can i can see the
measurements but i want this to
transcend all the different tools that
are available so this method will work
on photoshop gimp whatever i can just
see that it's 89 pixels in the gimp or
in Photoshop and go image image size and
you'll see that it's 89 pixels high so
that's what we want to set our submenu
div to height is currently 30 and what
did I say 85-89 see how short maybe sure
85 85 thank you i was listening nice way
i was listening to myself to krista but
anyways that's that's good there we go
all right happy with that good you're
happy with that good fantastic only got
a couple minutes left until the news
let's let's just kind of i want i just
rock this thing out we're going to keep
going right below my sub menu before i
do that i want to show you something
interesting style dot CSS you'll notice
submenu first thing position absolute
from the top 361 pixels search engine
optimization says whatever I put in here
let's just pretend that this was some
really important search engine keywords
keywords of goodness ok so now if that's
my just just say
okay my font just happens to be white
but the words are there but watch this
because I've got absolute positioning on
this sub menu item remember that search
engines to for the most part still read
your file in order so they read it from
the top going down it kind of starts at
body and then it works its way down well
if this is the really key stuff I don't
want it to happen at the bottom of the
file I wanted to happen near the top so
what if our to put that there for
example upload that file refresh it's
still in the exact same spot because the
positioning of that element is
absolutely positioned it's hard set to
the 360 pixels or whatever it was from
the top so that can be placed anywhere
within your within your HTML aspect of
the site keeping in mind that it is
subject to whatever wrappers it's
contained within in this case it's
contained within simply wrapper no
matter where I place it similarly if
this was a bit of content say I'm you
know something that you don't want to
have priority so to speak in the search
engines or over other content of your
site you can place it at the very bottom
of the site it's still going to appear
visually where you want it to be on the
site but it's not going to it's not
going to get it's not going to be up as
high in the source code it's just a
little interesting fact for you so we're
going to come back to that in a couple
of minutes and in the meantime we're
going to toss things over to Hillary who
has some interesting news stories for us
and we will talk to you in that in just
a minute Hillary nice to have you here
hey everyone time for the news
from the category five dots in a
newsroom the internet TV and phone
services provided by weston
communications group experienced a
severe glitch on sunday to the flooding
and one of its fiber-optic lines between
Brandon and web users in Brandon and the
surrounding areas has spent more than
two days without internet the company
was able to partially restore television
service monday with many users missing
the Canadian election coverage a limited
amount of inos service began responding
to users this morning and websites
hosted by Westman became available
around the same time but I was this
morning outside and her access was still
not available the issues affecting users
all the way from dothan to killarney in
the canadian province of manitoba making
this widespread outage about 300
kilometers covering that big distance
which is like 185 miles the company
expects to have all services restored
today and users affected by the issue
may receive updates on the progress of
the repair which will be shown on the
community program channel wcg TV in a
story which runs together with a railer
story about google these days the
company is now being sued for 50 million
dollars by two htc inspire 4G owners in
Michigan in a class action lawsuit
regarding androids ability to collect
information on a user's GPS location the
soup comes a week after Google
acknowledged that android phones with a
GPS devices store some location data
directly on phones but only for a short
time google also stayed at the time that
any sharing of that location data
requires the users permission you'll
remember how we reported recently about
the fact that your smart phone your
smart phone stores private location data
in pictures well now according to lord
for student group in his complaint
androids tracking capability puts users
at serious risk of privacy invasions
including stalking according to the
Detroit News the smartphone privacy suit
is believed to be the first of its kind
filed in the US
Sony executives promise users on
Saturday that they would start restoring
their cloud cloud based PlayStation
Network and the related curiosity
services this week following what the
company called an illegal and
unauthorized intrusion last week which
they now have confirmed has threatened
roughly 100 1 million users worldwide
Sony based in Tokyo said that the breach
may have affected the credit card
information of approximately 10 million
users services are finally starting to
be restored region by region there are
some reports of service coming online in
some parts of Japan but this has not
been officially confirmed by sony sony
plans to offer users welcome back
rewards to apologize for the service
interruption and has promised to step up
security efforts to protect its users
personal information so when will
service be back online in your area
Sonia has yet to confirm an official
date the last man to set foot on the
moon wants to go back only this time to
line a rare element used in the
production of fusion energy a waste
reform of nuclear energy I could help
power the planet in the 21st century
Harrison Schmitt the first geologist in
the last of twelve men who left the fair
footprints on the moon is promoting an
ambitious 15 billion dollar us project
to obtain helium-3 an isotope of the
inner element while it is rare on earth
helium-3 is relatively abundant on the
moon she says helium-3 is nearly ideal
fuel for huge nuclear power it's ideal
because it produces little or no
radioactive waste unlike almost all
other nuclear systems following his
speech Schmidt said is 15 billion dollar
project which he outlined in this 2006
book return to moon could be implemented
over 15 or 20 years you can get these
full stories online at our website
category 5 dots p / newsroom the
category 5 TV news room is researched by
roy w ash with contract
from our wonderful community of viewers
if you have for you things for you on
our mention send us an email I newsroom
a category 5 team for the category 5
jati newsroom I'm Hillary Rumble if you
want them
you
yes
no problem that's my job I said that's
my job that's what I'm here for
so wooly quickly there was a quick
question in the chat rooms before Galvan
I just realized hey we come back from
the news we have some witty banter and
Robbie didn't turn on the microphones
that's ok ah but I'll just tell you the
banter was Colleary it was good they
just thought laughing like what's going
on it looks like they're having a good
time and we're kind of left out of here
especially the guy who is looking for
the audio feed it's like yeah anyways oh
this episode of category 5 technology TV
is brought to you in part by pogoplug a
cat5 TV / pogoplug and you can also join
me in the massive multiplayer online
game planet calypso fived on TV /
Calypso to download that free program
and I was thanking Hillary and I
mentioned that the Krista was actually
at this place with her laptop I just
jumped into the picture yeah welcome
back everybody oh now would you like to
jump into some questions deja vu so
hopefully a quick question um invisible
or invincible mutant just wants to know
if he could quickly help him out with
installation of sopcast player topic
cast player yeah not familiar with it
what is that one and what what operating
system really fantastic question that's
the first question let's take a look
here he appeared appear internet TV
alright for windows for windows for
windows for windows I'm just looking
here windows windows for Linux mi
versión GUI front end
I'm not familiar with this is i will
i'll take a look at it after the show
just like a television program viewer
for for your computer and seems that
there is a linux version so unless that
we all grab this archive super small
well let's take a look build times allah
ok so let's extract this file so this is
the archive that i downloaded as p dash
SC off at the right file can't be it's
an off what I'll do command line version
please read the readme yeah I think it
best you have baffled him well I mean I
can I can run this this application that
is here I'm just extract I've just
extracted it to my desktop right SP off
whatever it is you probably want to
check it out with you know whatever not
sure what it is it's not a lie can SH
script or anything so if you trust it
it's already set as executable it
doesn't run in the GUI so we'll go into
terminal applications accessories
terminal c d and then to where you put
it let's see if it does anything here
air while loading shared libraries ok so
did it touch in the here you don't have
SD dc5 on your system please download
from sopcast com and place it into user
/ lib so
I don't know how well you can follow me
here i'm going to go to sopcast com just
like it says in the instructions there
see how visible that is I'm not sure
where on their website the Lib file is
my man but if you grab that Lib file the
problem you're going to run into is that
you have to be super user in order to
write to the folder that they're telling
you to write to so without having the
file i'll show you how to move that file
just so that you're ready for it when
it's time ok so let's say you've got
this file ok i'm going to create a fake
file just with that name just so that
you can see all right so it's telling me
to put that in user / lib well here's
the problem if I go to my desktop and I
grab that file that I've now downloaded
we'll pretend and I go to user / lib and
if I try to paste you know what's going
to happen just not going to give me that
option because this is a super user only
folder which I don't have write access
to I cannot paste to that folder so
without using the GUI to do it because
it's a little safer to do it in terminal
go CD slash USR slash libs sorry for the
flicker there but hopefully you can
still follow along ok so now I'm in that
folder ok i still can't write to it but
as the superuser i could so i'm going to
go LS home Robbie desktop that's where
my file is ok lib STD c++ so i'm going
to go sudo for super user do CP for
coffee home Robbie desktop of the
capital d lib and then hit tab and it's
going to finish filling that in for you
ok and then destination let's see if I
can get rid of some of that flicker
there for you sorry about that ok so
sudo CP slash home slash Robbie /
desktop lib stdc blood allah period and
that means put it where I am hit enter
it's going to ask me for my super user
password and now I have successfully
placed that file
user lib creating a copy live STD c plus
plus there it is okay so by using that
command you're going to be able to copy
the files that you've downloaded that
are necessary in order to do that and
keep that in mind when you're when
you're following these directions CP
okay if you look at the instructions
here they're not taking into account
that you're not an su user so your copy
command would actually look like that so
actually follow these directions doing
this a little bit differently okay but
makes you put sudo before it and then
that way you'll be able to copy it over
let me know if that works for you okay
I'm not familiar with the application
but let me know if that instruction is
what you were looking for here's hoping
try another one yeah well maybe one
quick question and we'll get back into
our our series here I'm sorry too I
don't know how many questions are coming
in the chat room and everything but we
do our best to and you can always email
live at category 5 TV and that is a
great way to get your question in so
that we can get it on the show tonight I
really want to push out as much as we
can in the web development series as
well great okay so from Anthony elders
and he's Matheny Holland I watched sure
I've watched all your programs to find
them very interesting i wonder what is
the best way to install to boom to use
the entire disk or to partition the hard
disk with a separate partition for the
OS okay well that's going to be a
case-by-case thing two things to look at
one how big is your hard drive because
if it's a smaller drive you'll probably
want to take the whole drive because you
want as much space as possible for your
applications and your files and things
like that
and also are you going to be using is
there any reason to partition the drive
in such a way that you've got space left
for other stuff if you plan to to do a
boot down the road for example maybe you
want to leave some space for windows if
on the other hand you don't think you're
going to do that or if there's no reason
to have a separate partition then you
might as well just take up the whole
drive and you're good to go that said
you can you can use the participation
that would probably suffice i think for
as far as that question goes it but it
depends on on what you're what you're
going to be doing if you're dual booting
if you need extra space set aside for
another task that's not a boon to or if
you want to have a separate sometimes
for example i'll just give you a
shootout an example if your dual booting
you've got windows XP to you might leave
an empty fat two partitions so that it's
a partition that not only can linux read
and write too but also because it's
fat32 or it could be ntfs of course
you'd be able to write to it from your
windows partition as well so it becomes
you know that's a great place to put say
your my documents in windows and those
documents in Linux because it becomes
shared so when you reboot into windows
you've got access to the same documents
that's one reason you might partition
that way but for the average user I
would say take up the whole drive if
this is going to be your main operating
system and then that just gives you all
okay what I want with a fresh install
was the best way not to lose my
installed
home folder you may still you'll
probably need to still if you're going
to do a fresh install you're still going
to need to install the applications but
at least you won't have loosed here
you're sick then so for example I've got
files and within filezilla my ftp
application I've got some memorized web
servers that gonna be able to upload and
download my files from so if I back up
my slash home folder I'm adversely
backing up my slash home slash Robbie
slash dot filezilla folder which
contains all the user settings for that
application so then with that backup now
I can wipe my computer and you can back
up more than that if you want but or if
you need to but then wipe your computer
install the new operating system and
then copy your home back over and then
install filezilla and load filezilla for
the first time on this new operating
system and suddenly all of your
memorized websites are back in the
application as long as it's a compatible
version which is usually the case so
back up your slash home and always keep
a good backup especially of your / home
possibly an image of your drive if if
you want to save some hassle if if you
ever do have a crash but back up back up
back up but / home is where all that
data is okay you'll still need to
install the applications though all
right what do you say what's that thanks
for questions everybody can't all right
okay so jumping back to our teacher here
on web development let's see that closed
down stuff that I opened up here while
we were chatting up
five TV / oh yeah double oh seven that
was like a blue steel double oh that was
pretty good that's pretty good alright
so we learned about how the basically
the static positioning using absolute
positioning makes it so that this div
can be anywhere within our source that's
very cool so it can be anything any text
in there no problem now well throw some
text in there and where's that ending up
it's going to be of course because
there's no float on this blue one it's
going to be directly know where is not
upload there we go just finished refresh
okay it's actually going up here because
we have the absolute positioning granted
right so when we create our div now
here's what's interesting because we
have created a div that is absolutely
positioned this one here okay now my
relative positioning or the position of
my next element is actually going to
fall above that because I've already
bumped everything down just for that one
for my submenu element so what we need
to do is when we create our next rapper
here now okay I'm still within the head
the header I want to get outside of the
header
let's call this main body because this
will be just where our text goes all
right we can put Laura if we want lip
Simorgh so a great tool
we're going to throw a border on that so
that we can see okay with main body you
notice I'm going to start to not explain
everything because at this point I'm
thinking okay you're following along and
we know exactly kind of what is going on
here keeping our everything nice and
clean semicolon at the end of the line I
want to see where this element is
actually falling now it's possible my Z
index is throwing that behind so I'm
just going to give it an absurdly index
just for the moment and just see if that
case we're still not seeing it so let's
go well i'm going to create
for your border position relative let's
move the finder element here there it is
there okay so it is falling behind this
particular element the blue we want to
move that down so with our relative
positioning we can now from there go top
and the height of the sub menu is 85 so
we're going to add that as our top
positioning element here and remove the
border remove my z-index don't think
it's going to be necessary for us and
add a color of white pardon me not color
because that's our text color what I
meant is background and you'll notice
that I'm not actually going background
color I'm going to use just background
which is going to establish the same
thing and it is w3c compliant okay so
now that is positioned where we want it
to be no our Z index is good you can see
that the shadow is actually happy white
so height of this element what we want
to do is we're going to use a tool
called min height req statement and
we'll set this to say 200 pics and what
that does in the modern browser is it
tells it that the minimum height of that
element it's not going to it's not going
to squeeze it to the tack instead when
we refresh it's actually going to have a
minimum height of what we specify so
that is for shorter paragraphs and then
of course the longer paragraphs because
it's a minimum height not a hard set
height it's going to grow vertically ok
so finally we're at the point where we
can start actually adding text to our
website of course this element here the
blue element we can place the new menu
into that our sub menu we've got a spot
to put our texts and from there we also
I guess that's that's really we're
getting pretty close i welcome i gather
it's really starting to look like is
that what you had envisioned that's what
I had envisioned fantastic alright so
that's where we're at for the night
double oh seven this is category five
technology TV and you'll find us online
triple w category five TV if you're
truly enjoying the the web development
series go over to cap five dot TV / web
dev and from there you're going to be
able to find out all the different tools
that that we use here on the show as we
were demonstrating the web development
series and you're also going to have a
chance to flatter us for the series or
post your comments at the bottom of the
page as well and indeed we have a
comment here from Scott who says I'm
really enjoying the current series on
web development this is explained many
things to assist me redesigning my own
index page once I've got the time and
that's exactly what this is all about I
hope that will inspire you to to really
dig into your own code inspire you to
try web development and see what you can
do and be creative and it's it's such a
fun thing I think to to be able to
realize these kinds of things like a
website and really get in and create
something that is your own and not just
not that there's anything wrong with
like a wordpress blog or anything but
not just a wordpress blog or not just
you know it's something that we're
creating custom into something that is
is really your very own I think there's
something really cool about that kind of
websites completely different she when
you're surfing through because we're
building it from scratch we can really
put an emphasis wherever we want when it
comes to search engine optimization
actual data structure and positioning
elements with
our site how we want to be able to grow
and we're going to have it so that it's
a fluid height which is already in place
so you go ahead and and paste some pay
some more text into that into that
design the vertical goes so you can
download the files from tonight's show
cat five dot TV / web dev and that's
nice to see you joining us in the chat
room category 5 TV when you're on our
website category five dot TV you will
see that that we have an option with
stars to vote for your favorite episodes
at category 5 and I'd encourage you to
do that as a registered viewer you'll be
able to actually click on the stars and
choose your favorite episodes and one
day we're going to actually use those
once there are enough episodes with
different voting's that we'll be able to
compile a list of people's favorites for
example and do things like that and we'd
like to know what you think about the
episodes as well so category 5 TV and
I'd love to have you participate that
week after that in that week after week
oh yeah time flies done that so they say
hope everybody had fun tonight day is
just the the ominous group of people
that would make all the decisions for us
good yeah I'm watching the chat room
here this is my chance to look at the
children yeah it's been busy in there
and then hey everybody Wow when you post
the chat logs well it's like I love you
can see this or not man okay oh you
doodle this is just since the beginning
of the show right so we post the chat
logs in the in the show notes for
episode number 189 so if you want to
read what was said in the children
interesting thing about the chat logs is
that you can actually follow along
because the shoulder 7pm so when you get
15 minutes into the show you know that
says 715 in the chat logs that's exactly
conversation that way as you watch let's
and nice to see everybody do we have any
new viewers who are joining us in the
chat room possibly for the first time
tonight or maybe you're you're fairly
new here we've never said hello we'd
love to say hello to you let us know
where you're from as well Keva wonders
why firefox takes so long to load
compared to Chrome regardless of which
operating system you're using and
typically that has to do with the the
add-ons that you're using in the in the
browser sometimes also firefox tests
check for updates run at first launches
and sometimes that can slow that feature
because you get the latest updates to to
the browser but definitely the add-ons
can cause some problems because you got
to imagine that they've got a very
streamlined fast browser especially with
version 4 but you've got hundreds
possibly thousands of developers who are
creating their own third-party add-ons
and you're possibly installing these
into your browser so there isn't a lot
of control as far as well what if one of
those add-ons takes 30 seconds to load
well your browser's weight in 30 seconds
to load which is unimaginable it's never
that bad I hope but so Mozilla has been
putting an effort into actually adding
to the add-ons a rating system so that
they can actually show users how much
bloat this is going to add to your
firefox installation and it's it's been
a bit of an uproar because popular
add-ons have been saying well you know
I've got a very popular add-on and now
nobody wants it because they found out
that it adds three seconds to their load
time
and so that's that's something to
consider but if you want to add add ons
you want to know whether or not it it's
going to slow down your browser for sure
cool what do you think any other
questions in the chat room did anyone
say hey I'm new here uh we do have a
guest in here I think he's named hey 79
67 yeah nice to see ya
well I look back over the chat logs but
would love to hear from you about what
you're saying about audio obviously we
don't hear what what you hear and we
talked about it last week we're due to
the power surges we are having to use a
i'm using a different microphone so and
that's that's kind of a necessary thing
for the moment but we're we're hoping to
with your help we're going to be working
towards replacing damaged hardware well
you sound good from here fantastically
of you right here yeah like in stereo
bouncing off that wall right there guest
79 67 led zep jock we've got invincible
mutant and kev-o cooler beam cool name
nua and Pirus rock on their mobile mmm d
murphy jb SCC these are just a few of
the people who are joining us in the
chat room and i just want to say greeks
to you everybody else who's there Cory
klassen just left us and we've got a
whole bunch of other people joining us
in the chat room and I'd encourage you
to get in on that and people if you want
to stick around after the show will will
be happy to say to be able to sit down
and chat with you in the chat room for a
little bit thanks for watching category
5 technology TV and we will talk to you
next Tuesday night thanks for being here
Krista yeah what was a pleasure and
thank you for being here and we look
forward to talking to you one week from
tonight we'll see ya
