welcome to episode number 323 of
category 5 technology TV 323 323 it's
November 26 2013 on Ravi Ferguson and
I'm Eric it and here is what's coming up
in the newsroom the computer program is
analyzing images 24 hours per day to
determine if a computer can learn
visually like a human Apple has
purchased the company to develop gesture
control for Microsoft's Kinect sensor
and Stuxnet has been recognized as the
world's first true cyber weapon getting
caught swearing on your xbox one console
could lead to account feature
restrictions stick around these stories
are kind of coming up later in the
newsroom tonight we've got some English
tips for you don't give ya what they
don't have those stories later get off
my camera all right i'm gonna say
tonight we've got some linux tips for
you we're going to be showing you a
little bit of tricks in the terminal
don't want to miss that also we've got a
tool for your windows system to make
your DNS servers run super screaming
fast and make your internet seem like
it's a lot faster than than it normally
is so it's gonna be great Joe don't go
anywhere this is category 5 technology
TV
starring Sasha dramatis Hillary Rumble
christo wells
Eric kid
and your host Ravi Ferguson
hi I'm Hillary Rumble I'm one of the
on-air presenters on category 5
technology TV I along with a wonderful
dedicated team volunteer to make this
show possible category 5 TV is a digital
broadcast different from a traditional
TV show we interact live with our
viewers answering their questions in
real time and even demonstrating answers
to tech questions right on the show we
are big community advocates we believe
everyone should have access to the help
of others and that everyone who is able
should be willing to provide that help
if another person seeks it kind of like
the mentality of borrowing a cup of
sugar from a neighbor but on a grander
scale our viewers tuned in from around
the world and interact with both the
on-air team and the community itself
through our live chat room category 5 is
predominantly Linux entered and we
promote the use of open source software
in order to both save you money and to
demonstrate that there are viable
open-source alternative to many software
products this gives like-minded
developers and companies a platform to
promote themselves and gives our viewers
insight into their exciting products we
don't just tell you about it we teach
you how to use the software that we
promote we also provide tech related
advice including Microsoft Windows
support linux out tues good security
practices and we feature exciting
interviews with industry professionals
in a wide range of tech categories we've
been broadcasting our show live every
single week since 2007 and it's time for
us to move into a permanent sound
isolated studio and build a strong
future for free online tech broadcasting
along with the move to a permanent
studio space we hope to further improve
the broadcast quality by adding new
higher quality video cameras and
sophisticated virtual studio sets
breaking us out of the confines of a
small studio space using virtual reality
why is this enhancement to the show so
important to us simple it will mean we
will be able to catch the eye of more
paying sponsors so we can continue
providing this show to you the viewers
absolutely free of charge here's our
host Robbie Ferguson to show you just
one of the exciting ways your
fusion will enhance category-five TV now
here's something we're really excited
about bringing to category 5s studio D
with your help it's called chrome at
from reflect media now with the
traditional chroma key green screen
studio of course we'd have to paint the
walls green and that brings with it a
problem green reflections so of course
you know my skin sometimes our clothes
and products that we're displaying are
going to actually reflect the green that
surround us so that becomes a problem
and it makes it hard to key so of course
everybody who has ever built a green
screen studio knows what does that mean
you got to bring in more lights so in
come the lights and you've got all these
great big soft boxes they generate a lot
of heat they use a lot more electricity
and here's the kicker they use up a lot
of your floor space we want to avoid
that completely that's where reflect
media comes in this stuff's amazing
we've got a light ring adapter on this
camera and we place one of these on each
of our cameras here at category 5 and
then with the flip the simple flip of a
switch on this controller module and
you'll see that the gray screen that I'm
standing in front of automatically turns
into this perfect chroma key green and
it's perfectly illuminated I didn't have
to bring in any extra lighting so what
that means is we're able to utilize all
the space of studio D you'll see that to
the naked eye it's still just a grey
screen but to this one camera it's
perfect chroma key green so now we've
got all that extra space that we're not
using for lights and we're able to for
example enhance our news segment make it
look like a professional network
broadcast or perhaps you'd like to see
category 5 technology TV broadcasting
from a multimillion-dollar studio well
or so it seems I mean everything around
me is of course virtual but that is what
your contribution can bring to category
5 TV we're not just building a studio
what we're doing is we're enhancing
category 5 we're taking ourselves to the
next level and taking your show
propelling it into the future awesome
stuff got technology along with new HD
cameras and a sound isolated studio
space means giving our view
the best digital broadcast possible with
better visuals and higher quality video
we are committed to always offering
category 5 absolutely free to its
viewers it's like having a free
technical support team who provide you a
step-by-step assistance when you need it
more than that we also strive to make
category 5 entertaining so you get the
best of both worlds you tune in each and
every week having learned something new
and had fun learning it as well as being
a part of a generous and very caring
community because we do this all for
free we need our viewers to stand by us
as we raise the funds to bring category
5 TV into the next era of broadcasting
it takes a lot of money to get there and
we sincerely need your help we have a
big vision and while we could do
everything for under 90 thousand dollars
the one thing we really need to do is
build the studio itself believe it or
not that will only cost a seventeen
thousand five hundred dollars it's a lot
of money to anyone of us but with your
help and the help of other viewers and
fans of the show we can do it to put it
into perspective if just 350 people give
fifty dollars the new studio would be
built if you don't think your
contribution will make a big difference
think about this if every single person
who watched your show last week alone
were to give just two dollars we'd
exceed our highest goal that's amazing
and it goes to show that even a little
bit helps but it requires all of us
working together don't hesitate no
matter what the amount please show your
support for category 5 technology TV and
contribute what you can there are many
exciting perks being offered as thanks
for your contribution and everyone who
contributes will receive a downloadable
copy of a documentary-style film we're
producing detailing the studio build and
all that it involves not only will you
get to see how your contribution was
used and how the exciting features of
our new studio will come together but
you'll also receive a wealth of new
educational material as our contractor
bill Valentine walks you through
everything from soundproofing to
drywalling and set design will also
detail many of the technical aspects of
the build and even provide
behind-the-scenes footage exclusive to
the documentary please click the big
pink contribute now button at cat5 TV /
studio from robbie me and the whole team
at category 5 and our community of
viewers thank you for supporting
category 5 technology TV thanks Hilary
this is category 5 technology TV i'm
your host Robbie Ferguson and I'm Eric
Kidd I see Eric hey it's nice to be seen
you know get up to this age a big thank
you to all the viewers who have sent in
donations this week thank you very much
this is the final week of our
crowdfunding campaign like that is
there's no time left please show your
support for the category 5 technology TV
at cat5 TV / studio together we can do
this really believe that and Hilary
alluded to the fact that we do have some
great perks there we have our business
card set oh I wish that I had one on the
set with me do you have a business card
we have a really nice business card to
your category 5 they're designed by our
very own crystal wells they're basically
the coolest business card ever they're
double sided and each card has the
picture of the person who it's whose
card it is so Eric Kidd cool so we've
had everybody sign autograph their
business cards you can actually pick
those up as perks if that's not good
enough for you we do have category 5
vinyl stickers which are a hot item on
our campaign and you can actually get a
vinyl sticker which you can stick to
your laptop because of the material it's
like a vinyl literally it can be stuck
onto a laptop or window or a car and you
can peel it off and there's no residue
it's a very good quality nice sticker so
yeah that's the category 5 TV logo also
for forty dollar contribution you can
actually pick up three months of free
long distance with nettalk duo two you
can actually get the device plus you get
the three months of free long distance
and then if you want to extend it beyond
the first three months it's only the
cost of a couple of cups of coffee per
month and you get unlimited long
distance to canada in the u.s. so we're
thinking about what can you do with the
nettalk duo and if you were to pick up
two of them you can actually activate
one in Canada or the US and then ship it
overseas send it to a loved one
and then you've got free calling to and
from that loved one but also that loved
one can now call Canada or the u.s.
absolutely free that's kind of neat so
they are not limited to only calling you
overseas they can actually call anywhere
in Canada the US for free so if I were
to activate one of these for example and
send them to say a viewer in the
Netherlands can we think of one that I
can to get one let me jot down that down
here yeah so that Bureau then be able to
actually call us the studio is a local
call but could also call down into New
York or call anywhere in Canada so
that's really cool so that's you know
one way that you can get a one perk that
you can get through cat5 TV / studio
also i do want to mention we saw in best
buy these are now available the nettalk
duo as well they throw in a couple of
extra handset cordless phones Oh from
VTech so that's a bonus so you can
actually get a net talk duo which has
the one-year service with two wireless
handsets for 9999 so I set up a link for
you for that device if you'd like to
check it out it's cat five dot TV / VoIP
VoIP and check that out it's available
through best buy canada so great deal
thanks to nettalk for supporting our
that is very our campaign as well and
every to everyone who has been a part of
our our fundraising campaign I one also
make a mention pardon me tonight you
can't a tonight at ten o'clock okay so
after the show tune into computer
america its computer America calm and
I'm actually going to be interviewed on
on Craig Crossman's show and so looking
forward to that we're going to talk a
little bit about category five what
makes us unique and we're gonna be able
to share that with that internet or that
national radio broadcast that also
broadcast internationally through
through the podcast so that's exciting
and again that is computer america.com
and we'd love to have some of our
viewers our listeners in fact join us
for that broadcast tonight again that's
ten o'clock and that is my time so
that's eastern time so basically once
the show is over tonight two hours
following I'm going to be live at
computer America calm all right so you
can check out our show at mcat five hot
TV if you've got your mobile device
bring it up scan the code those sound
effects are real I just they don't come
with the phone they don't come with a
site but mcat five TV is a great place
to be able to get category 5 on your
mobile your tablet over it anything like
that and did you know category 5 TV is a
member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here cat5 TV / t pn and
the international association of
internet broadcasters cat five dot TV /
IA ib that's all that's the sound of the
cat phone ringing the cut its active if
you have a question for us tonight 2545
cat5 TV will get to get through to the
studio here we'd love to have your
question live on the show well so you
can email eric live at category 5 TV I
want to do what I do with all my friends
and ignore you oh no he would never do
that he only does that to me by RL IRL
so what he been up to just real briefly
off the top of the show things going
well well you know I giggin and i know
i'm one of the holdouts i love my
blackberry but my bold okay what
happened well you know at first it
started randomly shutting off and
rebooting in lugisu model my bold bold
my bulbs that's reasonably new like a
year old yeah yeah but that nice
actually the screen resolution it was
smaller screen than the in the torch but
okay the resolution was great and it
seemed like a nice lightweight little
poem but it started randomly rebooting
on me and dropping calls Oh would reboot
and then
I never liked a phone Dan which shuts
down and start up again and then there's
one time it didn't start up again oh
dear luckily so you had you know how
Robbie likes talking about backups I had
a backup and i was able but I'd back up
my my bold and so you just take your SIM
card out of the light with my semi
peridot my memory card and I fired up
the old torch and there you go and it
works better all my data are there and I
haven't lost a call since and how
service been I know blackberry has seen
some actually you know some seem rough
for them yeah yeah yeah they've been
taking a beating yeah it seems to I like
the fact that it's a Canadian company ya
know I thought you liked even though
there's all kinds of Asafa chol reasons
for i don't know i'm i'm entering into
this next phase with trepidation but i'm
looking at the maybe the year the sad 30
or something but so you're looking at
we'll see getting some i knew it i
don't know that i could ever live in
holding on I does not learn the Apple
world yo yeah maybe maybe there's
Android I know there's a story i love my
tablet my android tablet but yes yeah
you don't want to hold it to your ear
though I make a call oh hello you get
handsets what was that you it's just
like that it's just like that my first
cell phone was it was kind of late lunch
box the best viral core rate yeah ah
good times yeah are we having fun yet
I'm having fun nice to see you thanks
for joining us it's so nice to see me he
says he gave me a glass of water with I
was with water in it time oh okay um and
speaking of nice to see we've had a few
registrations on our website category
five dot TV this week i'll let you take
a stab at the names because then i can
just read all the easy stuff I'll read
the last one okay I might have to squint
a little bit here he's getting old well
it could be these are new registered
viewers could be r is and Jeff or
Rosanna huh
all of a sudden it is French if he
doesn't know how to bounce it what was
that in Greece there was r is no risen
Jeff anyway 19 6 170 hey okay I i I'm
assuming this there's a nineteen seventy
reference there with a sick run in the
middle o which is kind of yeah it's sick
sick man okay that was the year the 70
we like Chloe eight employee eight huh
nice to have you here and you guys make
a nice and hard front thank you I Ortiz
victory Abby I Ortiz it's French victory
it's all harvesting he was Spanish with
your teas and then yeah or tis victory
to be okay and we'll move on to HS I am
ok cuz I'm Agnew oh yeah his Simic new
maybe if I say it fast a bunch of times
thanks for registering yes a joke i do
the last one ok welcome to Devi is it DV
I think Debbie's and deviance a really
deviation oh don't do that yeah never
that's right nice to have you joining
the category five community category
five dot TV and it's free technologies
blanket apology of his pronunciation sir
all through the show tonight we've got
news coming up we've got all these
things coming up we're going to
mispronounce things and we'll just we'll
say it's because we're Canadian eh eh oh
we're going to fight over it to
representations are always fighting over
so well hey Lifehacker posted something
interesting this week they did which
made me tank there are all these kind of
little hidden yeah they tend to do that
a there are all these little hidden
intricacies to bash in Linux and the
terminal that you don't necessarily
think too in fact tap into and one of
those commands is ashley's Microsoft
your boss or your minds we don't bash
Microsoft we just
state the truth we're all about truth
here Eric so if it comes out as if it's
bashing come on all right bring up the
linux terminal there it is there was a
challenge to pronounce a new register in
the IRC there oh good Jay Villanueva I
don't know all right I don't know how I
did let him know ok well the command
that we're thinking about tonight which
I thought was yeah that's interesting is
simply explanation point explanation
point you know what that does let's know
you really mean it yeah I tell you what
you just don't really want to lose his
command what explanation for an
explanation point in bash does is simply
repeats the last command great Oh
where's how soft you can just well hello
yeah there's history too so you've got
the arrow keys so let's say you know I'm
at whatever and I do an LS there we go
so I can arrow up and I can as I can a
boat like that back and forth back and
forth but if I really want just the last
command line go explanation mark
explanation mark and it does an LS so
why does that matter well this is where
they made a good good point on
lifehacker which was move why don't we
use that when we forget to type sudo so
just a little tidbit for you from from
lifehacker and something that i thought
i would share smart idea so let's say
okay I've got a file cd10 I'm going to
make a file we're going to touch test
txt and I'm going to CH own I'm going to
sudo CH own test txt to root
there we go so now if I try to remove
test txt do you want to remove the right
protected file yes operation not
permitted oh that was dumb I forgot wow
I want really badly to delete this file
and I forgot to type sudo I am NOT route
I can't do it don't have enough power so
what do I do I love this cold by the way
I thinking after the show we're gonna
record a whole bunch of spots they say
yes yes will do that and we're not
shaking hands where you know I started
on CBC that this is saving lives yes the
you know they said they saw you know
Michelle and Barack do that yes it a lot
of folks in sports guy's done i think
it's not they were cool and and actually
it's then they did swabs on people's
hands after a handshake or with a fist
pump and it's saving line Mario now
venting started here on category five so
the next time in an interview and a
meeting with a you know job prospect or
something like hey with the dude all
right yeah right yeah so I did that
right and I say huh well okay so sudo RM
test dot txt is usually the way to do it
or you might press up home pseudo is
another way to do it but watch this
pseudo explanation explanation enter
done those exclamation not explain yes
you know I mean I need an explanation
done ! exclamation exclamation will
repeat the last command but do it as
superuser that's kind of awesome like
just as a time-saver especially when
you've done a apt-get install and then a
whole bunch of program games yeah 8700
multi-line
that's a pain so similarly bash command
exclamation minus one will do whatever
was your history one time ago two times
go three times ago so you could do you
know look if i did a touch test txt and
then LS test txt so now exclamation
exclamation will be LS test txt
exclamation minus one which now is ok
now i'm getting really complicated
explanation minus 3 minus 3 now you get
the idea see it increments every time
there it is so three times ago so one
two three four well for now cuz i
already entered another maybe you want
to put a space before it because if i
hadn't done that minus 4 with a space my
keep digging like everything is no it
never changes now stays it doesn't
increment if i put a space first ok the
more you know if until a fanatic I told
ya I'm just happy to be here glad to be
alive me too me too could be harshly
right that could be worse could be two
of me oh dear alright well let's put up
our windows 8 machine and I suppose
we'll get right into the news as that's
booting up cuz you know windows did he
do it did it alright well well here are
the top stories from the category 5 TV
news room will wait for me you told me
to read it while we were doing it I know
the the cough medicine is wonderful
take it away all right a computer
program is trying to learn common sense
by analyzing images 24 hours a day the
aim is to see if computers can learn in
the same way a human work that links
images to help them better understand
the visual world this is assuming the
human can learn right and the socialists
are challenged the neverending image
learner meal program is being run at
Carnegie Mellon University in the United
States the work is being funded by the
US Department of Defense's office of
naval research and Google since July the
Neil program has looked at 3 million
images as a result it is managed to
identify 1500 objects and half a million
images and 1,200 scenes in hundreds of
thousands of images as well as making
2,500 associations yes the team working
on the project hopes that Neil will
learn relationships between different
items without being taught well that's
something you know that's kind of neat
and I think about this kind of thing I'm
always thinking about person of interest
and that whole mindset that whole idea
of a computer system that's big enough
and intelligent enough to learn our
faces and learn the things that are
happening based on what it sees what it
hears and that's inevitably you know
that's the ultimate surveillance really
when it comes down to it so ominous yes
awesome yeah it's pretty awesome too so
maybe even its original meaning mm-hmm
okay primeSense isn't a rare Israeli
firm that specializes in making 3d
motion detection technology they're best
known for developing gesture control for
Microsoft's Kinect sensor and they have
made strides towards bringing the
technology to mobile well they've been
bought by Apple really yeah hmm the deal
is likely to spark speculation but plans
to develop new products such as Apple TV
primeSense confirmed the deal with Apple
in a statement to the BBC but said they
could not comment further
alright so we don't know anything more
it's half but it's not good what happens
if you know apple all of a sudden brings
out devices that have motion control we
think about the tablet and how that
would change things well what I want to
be what Apple TV or any TV devices for
that matter that would have it
integrated that'd be cool too that would
be mm-hmm accessibility for iPhones
might be good well no black no no no my
new blackberry out of it stuxnet scree
ators recognize that they had built the
world's first true cyber weapon and were
more interested in pushing the envelope
of this new type of digital warfare than
causing large-scale destruction within
targeted Iranian nuclear facilities of
study shows Oh in an analysis released
last week of Ralph Lange yay erlanger
head of the languor group has renowned
expert Ezra and a renowned expert in
industrial control systems is refuted
else or refuted arguments only a
nation-state had the resources to launch
a Stuxnet like attack assailants with
less ambition could take the lessons
learned and apply them to civilian
critical infrastructure he said Langner
concluded the Stuxnet comprised two
radically different destructive payloads
the first one which had been around at
least since 2007 was much more complex
and was capable of causing catastrophic
damage by increasing the pressure within
centrifuges used to enrich uranium
second payload which came years later
was much simpler manipulated rotor speed
so so centrifuges could be damaged
enough to force Iranian engineers to
replace them causing continuous delays
he described Stuxnet as a low-yield
weapon with the overall intention of
reducing the lifetime of Iran
centrifuges and making the Iranians
fancy control systems appear beyond
their understanding it's ominous but is
ominous and the story comes from PC
world it's legit you mean that wasn't
from the National Enquirer no
why isn't some obscure blog and the fact
that okay yeah it's confirmed the
Stuxnet was in fact designed to damage
repeatedly the nuclear facilities yeah
well that's really scary stuff yeah
users of Microsoft's Xbox one console
caught swearing and video clips are
having their accounts suspended so
everybody Wow yeah you know and just
like digress my son plays and you know
Hong Kong and yeah my goodness some of
the stuff that yeah and then then it's
all calm again and then oh yes then more
outbursts kind of games are they I mean
it's not Mario right it's not Mario
exactly xbox live which allows users to
upload media files including videos they
have made and take part in multiplayer
games was available on previous
Microsoft consoles but microsoft says
the new xbox one console has a more
sophisticated system of enforcement
files containing excessive profanity
will be taken down and their owners will
have access to some features on xbox
live removed microsoft said that all
files uploaded to its upload studio were
monitored for violations of its code of
conduct they say the review process is
to help maintain a clean safe and fun
environment for all users according to
Microsoft direct peer-to-peer
communication such as Skype chats and
calls are not monitored by the Xbox Live
enforcement team well it's a good thing
they said that now we feel later are
they oh speaking of ominous no hmm is it
a violation of the users right to use
their device to you know I don't limit
their use I lity of the device that they
purchase what's offensive where did
where is that line I love to say damn
well the fact is is where is the line
when it comes to gaming I'm not one
who's going to sit down a game and start
cursing at it and record that
put it up on the Internet That's not me
but fact is is that really largely you
know that's that's why I keep my kids
away from YouTube searches for game
footage it's plain and simple because I
expect that so what who knows maybe it's
a maybe it's a good thing what do you
think let us know in the chat room
category 5 on freenode is it a violation
of users freedom of speech even well or
is it a violation for them to be posting
things that they should be smart enough
to say you know what maybe that's over
the top you know I agree some things I
find disturbing but who's making these
decisions for me that's mine is right i
mean you say things that upset me
they're always take you definitely nice
okay I believe that when will we stop
talking about blackberry I want to say
hello to everybody who's watching
category five tonight from various
devices on youtube on blip TV on first
run TV on miro internet TV thank you so
much for tuning into category 5
technology TV tonight of course our
website is triple w category five dot TV
i'll throw it up on the screen just
below and if you want to go over there
check out what we're all about and find
out check out some of the back episodes
you know that we are available back to
season four so we're in the midst of
season seven so we've got season four
five six and seven all available for
on-demand viewing on our website
category five TV that's growing we are
working back in time getting season
three getting season two and inevitably
eventually having season one up there
for the real nostalgia fans you won't be
the bald dirt but a little a little bit
more scruff I've got the the kind of the
winter no thanks I've from season one
new did I have a bit more I think you
did a little a little bit not really I
lost it all when I was 20 look has a
long time ago yeah alright so let's
check out microsoft windows
I've got windows 8.1 up on my screen
here there it is how do you like that
and what we're doing tonight yeah and
we've we've had the discussion before
Eric about how the use of various DNS
servers are going to affect impact the
perceived performance of your internet
connection so kind of boils down to okay
well what does the dns server versus
bandwidth or internet speed so you know
if i bring up my web browser let's go
over to speedtest.net to get an idea of
how fast my internet is speedtest.net
it's one that I like there are many many
different service providers law they
have an app for any device so you can
install it on your is that yeah and then
you can you know I use it on client
sites and be able to tell approximately
how fast their internet is and helps you
to rule out some problems so let's see
what happens here with the category five
studio so you simply click begin test it
pings out to the Internet and tells us
what kind of ping response you're
getting and then what kind of download
and upload speed that you're getting so
zero defects oh yeah so here at category
five studio we have a dreamy two hundred
and some-odd megabits a second down and
up see this is where ISPs in Canada have
a real problem watch this look at the
difference so 200 Meg down fantastic up
what's that 88 is supposed to have about
10 we're streaming right now so to be
fair we're pumping out quite a bit of
data but there you go so we've got about
10 10 up and about 200 and something
down that's great that tells us how fast
our our internet connection itself is so
that's the transfer of a file from you
know a server to our computer or vice
versa when I go to a website though I'm
going through what's called
dns server domain name server because
every server that's on the internet has
an IP address it's like a phone number
for that particular server so if I want
to get to Google I'm actually getting to
their IP address so if i go into my
command prompt here on Windows and I
ping google so ping google.com I'll see
them their IP addresses 64 dot 7 1 dot 2
49 89 why don't you love how you still
have to mark just like the good old
windows 3.1 days hit enter there you go
so if I go to that IP address should be
Google it's the IP of their server
anyway that's what it's responding as so
gonna go there it is Google right but
it's an IP address so when I go to
google com what actually happens there
it communicates with what's called a DNS
server and the dns server says okay that
you're looking for google com now I need
to point you to this IP address right
and tell that IP address what to serve
up so you notice that it's redirected
now too google.ca their geolocation like
I don't know Canada what's robert's
phone number you look it up yes this is
number then goes here it's a little
quicker than that though no ma'am so DNS
is the lookup that happens when you type
in a domain name so nobody uses IP
addresses to get to websites so
perceptively even though I've got fast
internet if I have slowed D&amp;S it's going
to take five seconds before it even
realizes that ok google com is actually
this IP so there's a delay getting to
the point where it redirects to that
server so the trick is is that we want
to have a very very fast dns server
which your isp by default probably isn't
one of the fastest ones in the world so
tonight we're going to learn how to
replace our default dns server on
microsoft windows this will work with
windows XP 7
vista whatever and here i am on windows
8.1 it'll work on all of the above so go
to cap five dock TV / DNS jumper DNS
jumper is a free piece of software
that's going to allow you to detect what
the fastest dns server is and instantly
change it so check this out be careful
on this site there are a fair number of
ads and when I was here earlier I saw a
few that said download now download now
there's one start download up at the top
that's not actually the download if I
point to it you'll see that it's
actually linking to google ads so watch
out yeah you don't want to click on that
it's going to take me somewhere else
scroll down and there's the there's the
actual download link if I point to it
you see that it's actually linking to
DNS jumper download dot P downloads PHP
click on it there's the filing and open
it it's getting a security scan and
there it is so now I'm going to
right-click on the folder and copy go to
my desktop right click and paste there's
no installation process I've just
extracted DNS jumper onto my computer
let's bring that up and now double-click
on the application do we want to allow
it yep ok so here we are dns jumper nice
and simple interface what do you want to
do you'll see that it's defaulting to
the server that i use what we want to do
we can change the dns server to any you
know from us to UK change it to one of
the defaults that are in there or here's
what we want to do click on fastest dns
nice and easy right click on one of the
checkboxes and go mark all and then find
fastest dns it's testing all of those
dns servers to find which one is
responding quickest to my computer so
the answer that it gives that it gives
is going to be quite different for me
than somebody who's watching right now
in the UK for me
it said that this DNS server in the
United States is going to be the fastest
so what do I want to do apply fastest
dns done so now it's actually set my dns
servers to those IPS automatically on
microsoft windows so okay well i don't
use windows as my core operating system
I'd rather this impact my whole network
so now that using that windows tool I've
determined what my fastest dns servers
are there they are 20 8 7 6 you can see
them there now that I know what the
numbers are I can take those and I can
put them in as the primary and secondary
DNS servers on my router I can put them
as my primary and secondary DNS servers
on my linux installation or any device
at all know what if you did the test now
do you think you'd get the same results
if I did it you know at any time yeah I
mean I suppose it is this just a time
slice should ease with the fast as long
so then 20 minutes later would get
different ones or there's always load to
to think about but I'm certainly you
know I'm seeing some that are 300
milliseconds see there you don't worship
one of those there it gave me a
different there's a different one but
they're all you know within a variable
threshold based on whatever yeah I'm not
recommended if I just wondering is that
one even in the is augmented it in the
top 10 this time when I just wanna get
what when it was it was a toy
wasn't wasn't smart hyper there there
was two or twenty four milliseconds for
my first pen 76 for me 5050 in the 5150
124 milliseconds this time and so one
that is recommending yeah is the one
that is recommending was 24 and then 30
was the second thing so 76 was my second
thing on smartviper okay so it can vary
and so you want to actually run this
tool save once a month see what you know
because there are different things that
impact the speed of the DNS servers the
key thing to note is that having run
this on any window system on your
network you can now take that IP address
for the primary and secondary and paste
that into any of your devices and I
suggest putting it in your router and
Lori i know would make it would take all
of the devices yeah so how do you like
that I think it's cool mm-hmm so hey do
you have some viewer questions that have
come in during the course of the show
well I don't know should we do this
Firefox update click now we can save
that for after we should always always
do your updates except when you're live
on the air it's the only time might not
do it all right now let's see where
should we start of your question from
Chaz Linux hate athletics ah Robbie I'm
building a zero plus one raid array with
four identical hard drives all right
learned that you shouldn't use the
onboard motherboard brake controller
because if the board ever dies so does
your raid my question is should i
install Linux to the first drive then
use mdadm to create the second as a
stripe and the third and fourth as
mirrors of the first or do I do this all
during the initial install setting the
first and second is striped and the
third and fourth is mirrored
you know I'm hopped up on nyquil that
was a lot of way to repeat the question
case I've got four hard drives maybe
help me to understand that for hard
drives zero plus one raid array okay so
we've got doesn't wanna use the onboard
controller should he install Linux to
the first drive then use the md admin
ADM to create the second software tool
for linux terminal right so 0 plus plus
one is basically a raid 1 which is it
can be either either way 0 plus 1 vs 1 +
0 I'm not sure which one you're going
for basically the two ways that it can
be is it can be a mirror and another
mirror and those striped okay so you get
the speed benefit of a raid 0 not fully
but if it's it's still a bit better than
just a raid 1 for sure because you've
got four spindles as opposed to just two
or it can be striped so two drives
striped another to drive striped and
then those are now a mirror set that's I
think what he's doing so yeah I can
understand why you wouldn't wanna do it
with the motherboard because if your
mother motherboard gets zapped then you
have trouble finding one with the exact
same chipset then it can be a problem in
trouble yeah software-wise regardless of
what you use fact is you're going to
need to get that set set up in such a
way that it's that you can have your
operating system running on that array
so I mean we're where we where's you
want to go with it what's the best idea
yeah it's the best play or do I do this
all and you know so yeah third and
fourth is first or do i do the solder in
the initial install second the first and
second is striped and the third and
fourth is married hmm I just want you to
tell them what to do yeah no that's a
tough one because I don't really know
what you're what you're using it for you
know what
is this is this for a work station if
you're in the chat room let us know and
I see your name there so is it for a
workstation that you just want a fairly
powerful drive to be honest these days
depending on how much space that you
need you're going to get better
performance from an SSD a single SSD
then you will from zero plus one raid in
most cases you're going to get a better
throughput for for writing and reading
from from the dr simultaneously so it
really depends on what you're doing and
i'm sorry that i am you know a little
bit a little bit unclear with regards to
the question chess linux feel free to
clarify it for me okay and if i can help
by certainly will but these days like we
had a raid 0+1 in our of actually to
raid 0 plus ones in our broadcast system
and we were constantly hitting
bottlenecks i had one of the raids for
reading so that was the operating system
and software blue and one of them for
writing which was the actual record to
disk of our video at 720p sometimes
we're hitting bottlenecks and things
would suddenly the cpu would spike its
we've determined that it was the hard
drives to raid 0+1 and so i decided okay
when we need to get this fixed stuck a
single SSD in there that's about 560
megabits no pardon me megabytes per
second and and it runs screaming fast
way faster than the performance we were
getting off of those six drives so so i
would look at you know remote ZFS way
well that's that's again i don't know
what your wet the purpose behind this is
so if ZFS was you know if you're looking
at storage for example creating an ass
box or something then that's a different
thing altogether looks like it is a
video workstation not working in high
def so will you be backing up that would
be the question if you're doing video
because you you need space so a raid 0
is really a nice way to go
then you have a lot of speed and a lot
of space you get double the space so if
you had a raid 0 with four drives yeah
you've got a much higher chance of
failure but if you're backing up then
that doesn't matter you just want a
really fast system that if the hard
drive crashes you just rebuild and no
problem because you've gotta say like a
clonezilla image of the array without
the data just with the OS that's kind of
a nice way to do it but either way that
you do it I mean if it's two drives plus
two drives working simultaneously and
you've got those mirroring each other
then it's not going to be as fast as
either an SSD or raid 0 stripe yeah he's
on a tablets a little bit slow
responding but I I don't know if I'm any
help there alright sorry sometimes you
know I just not too sure what you're
what you're going for how would i do
that i would just honestly I wouldn't be
too scared of using the onboard because
I have a backup all the time you but
that's exactly and that's maybe
something to think about why are you
thinking about having such high
redundancy on something that's for
production not for storage should you
not have something else that's for
storage so you can do your production on
a scream and fast system with lots of
storage and then move the files on to
something that's redundant now just a
thought all right they have a follow-up
to stolen laptop your how is that in
there yeah I'm told Julia yeah maybe
paraphrase it's a long one from Carl had
a friend whose laptop got stolen off the
front seat of her car oh and that
situation but yeah go ahead shoka heck
yeah okay so well thank you so much for
taking the time for your busy show this
week to answer my questions about stolen
co-workers laptop indeed use what you
said was very helpful with some things I
hadn't thought of thanks for your advice
of ESET security I think we will be
installing that on come
laptops right away I think he set used
to be an advertiser you have a link from
the cat5 so we can get the credit so you
can get the credit yes in fact we funny
you should ask funny you should ask cat5
TV / ESET will take you to a site where
you can order it for Canada or the US
and get a free trial but smart security
is the one we're talking about with
anti-theft so that if someone steals
your laptop you can track it down or
it'll find out where it is bring up the
webcam see the person who's sitting in
front of it post a message up on the
screen hey you three well I thought
about the scenario where you know like
some punk kid broke into your car stole
your laptop and sold it to his buddy for
200 bucks that buddy has it sitting at
his desk he fires it up and right here I
am yugioh locate it using smart security
you can find it and then you wait that
kid goes to school mum comes in starts
cleaning the room all of a sudden you do
what you pop a message up on the screen
that says this laptop is stolen you can
do that with smart security please call
2545 cat5 TV to report this found so mom
sees that and says hey lilies and big my
ass you ain't got that laughs yeah you
said you got it from Joey I did get it
from Joe why are you beating me it's
just awesome so sorry awesome and the
sound effects are great too yeah all
right carry on okay cat5 TV / ESAT ESET
okay here's a question or comment 404
off air anyway um let's shall we do it
or yeah well that doesn't there is a
problem occurring on my sister box i use
ubuntu we're a show 13.10 alright send a
picture okay sent a picture got a
problem do you have the picture I'm
gonna I'm just bringing up your ear out
of the picture just bring it up
this comes to us from Manoj ok saving
the image to my desktop just to protect
your email address for you ok all right
here we go not yours theirs I know I
don't just do what you're doing ok here
we go ok so we've installed linux and
here's where we get the important stuffs
right where that flash bulb is yeah
that's what I mean if that is what I
needed to know right there the code all
right what do we see pulseaudio ok no
big deal having a problem with audio
having a problem with Plymouth neither
of those things matter oh here's one
that matters hardware error CPU 0 and
then a whole bunch of processor errors
looks to me as though you've got a bad
cpu this is add CPU this is a desktop
computer right so as a desktop perhaps
the CPU has come out of its socket even
just ever so slightly did you build the
system where did it come from does it
boot up normally or is it just when you
try to boot linux can you boot a live CD
I would suck a little bottom sihanouk
occurred yeah kernel panic can't go any
further it's got no cpu there's a cpu
problem fatal machine check that's what
it says so I think you've either I mean
it's telling you you've got a bad cpu I
think maybe that the CPU has come out of
its socket maybe somebody's tried to
adjust the fan or something and it's a
little bit fused to the to the heatsink
you just want to get that please there's
even a dress didn't piece up there on
the screen if that's the case if you
suspect that that is and you're not sure
what to do with it take it into an oem
which is a company that services these
things that then builds computers local
small computer shops will probably be
able to help
get that cpu cleaned off get it receded
get a re set with the with the thermal
compound and get the heatsink replaced
and hopefully that would bring it back
for you you can also try if the cpu is
not the problem try running a memtest
from a boot CD just to ensure that it's
not the memory itself that's in fact
spewing out errors and causing it to
think that the cpu is bad that could be
but i think that most likely you're
going to find that the CPU itself is
throwing that error taking a receding it
like yeah but only if you know how to do
that I wouldn't wouldn't take a stab at
it if you've never done it before
because then you're getting really deep
Liam into the inner components of your
computer which can be dangerous I had a
great screenshot didn't look quite like
that but it was and said blah blah blah
no keyboard present press f1 to continue
it I was like that that's great ok let's
take a look here from that was what else
you got for me buddy we have another
question well I converted an old
computer Adele optiplex 330 into a
server using easy blue software easy
blue oh I would have said easy but I'm
sure they were aiming for easy easy
blues offer and it is a linux-based
distro i'm unsure of would love some
assistance to get it up and running for
something other than the print server
would like to use it as a web or file
server or both I have very little
experience with linux and want to
leverage the system and utility of linux
cool i've never heard of easy blue or
easy blue which as you say good I'm very
proud no it doesn't that's interesting
so it's like a is this like a turnkey
linux solution ok so what do we want to
do are you stuck with easy blue or can
we do whatever so it's a print server
right now we want to set up as a web or
file server ok so we're really just
understanding the architecture of linux
on what you need in order to be a file
server on a windows network you need
something called samba your linux if you
just install a linux operating system
you'll have
the ability to create Samba shares I'll
show you how to do that let's say in my
GUI create a folder I'll call this my
share then I right click on it and go
properties and do I have it no I don't
endpoint Linux let's see share folder
there it is just a little bit different
on mine so my share share folder you'll
see okay you need to install at least
either Samba or NFS in order to share so
of course yeah I'll do that so let's go
in and go Samba or go into administrator
synaptic package manager and we would
install Samba or CIFS and that allows us
to now share over a windows network that
folder just by right clicking on it and
going share yeah so we know just from
the error message that yeah we need to
install Samba or CIFS to set up a web
server we've actually touched on it on
the show if you have a fast enough
system that you do virtualization eric
and i did a feature on using turnkey
linux and building with deploying a lamp
stack so just go to our website now post
links for you in the show notes for
episode number 323 to that episode and
that shows you how to use a virtual
machine if you're not interested in
setting up a virtual machine for that
the package that you need is called
Apache APA CH e and with that your
computer becomes an actual web server so
and then it's just you know learning
some things about security and if you're
going to open it up to the work to the
web there's a lot of reading involved so
you want to be you know you want to be
careful as soon as you start doing that
because if you're open to the web you
you're also open to potential
vulnerabilities of being a web server
you need mm-hmm can't believe that
that's all the time that we have happy
thanksgiving to all of our American
buddies and everybody celebrating
Thanksgiving this Thursday also don't
forget our crowdfunding campaign is
ending we're right down to the wire here
folks two dollars each would do it
literally everybody watching right now
two dollars 200 of you fifty bucks agree
how to do it yeah and we have the new
studio built and as we've said there's a
lot more to it than just building a new
studio this is really taking category 5
to the next level propelling us into the
future and getting us ready so that we
can basically show this show to networks
so that we can pitch this to syndication
partners and become you know available
through potentially other mediums
through being able to watch through your
television set through set-top boxes and
all those kinds of things it's all in
the plans so cap five TV / studio thanks
so much for your support also don't
forget tonight ten o'clock I'm going to
be on the air on computer America
computer america.com next week the
globally Intel's Sasha gratis will be
here looking forward to having her back
yeah last time she was here I think she
blew up the enterprise I haven't seen
her since so that goes in the grocery
story yeah she's not a lado fast yeah
anyway sorry folks i hope had a good
night tonight and never missed a show
these are the smooth sounding vibes of
Robbie with a cold yeah
take care of buddy we'll see you next
Tuesday night see you then right we hope
you enjoyed the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven p.m.
eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada will see you next
time thanks for tuning in
