here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom
Twitter's at three hundred and thirty
million users are being urged to change
their passwords
after some were exposed on its internal
network in plain text Ford is developing
a new smart car window to enable blind
passengers to experience the passing
landscape imagine the frustration of
playing a game where the difficulty
level constantly changes that's what an
experiment in AI technology is doing to
some retro classics Equifax has
published yet more details on the
personal records and sensitive
information stolen by miscreants after
they hacked its database last year these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
Jeff Westen Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what are you
you're terrible actor
what does where ad thing comes into play
I don't know you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash dream host to sign up for
unlimited web hosting for your website
with unlimited email accounts MySQL
databases the latest version of PHP
WordPress and more and even a free
domain name registration it's less than
six dollars per month so sign up today
cat five dot TV slash dream host this is
the category five dot TV news room
covering the week's top tech stories
with a slight linux bias I'm Sachi
Rickman and here are the top stories
were following this week Twitter's three
hundred and thirty million users are
being urged to change their passwords
network in plain text an error in the
way passwords were handled meant that
some were stored in an easily readable
form said Twitter the passwords should
have been put through a procedure called
hashing making them very difficult to
read but the bug caused the passwords to
be stored on an internal computer before
the hashing process was completed in a
blog the social network said once the
mistake was uncovered it carried out an
internal investigation which found no
indication passwords were stolen or
misused by insiders however it still
urged all users to consider changing
their passwords out of an abundance of
caution twitter did not say how many
passwords were affected but it is
understood that the number was
substantial and that they were exposed
for several months try hunt who runs the
have I been owned website which keeps a
log of breaches said the error was not
something that would worry him because
there was no indication that the login
passwords were seen outside the company
still here just users to act on
Twitter's advice and change their
passwords independent security expert
Graham clearly reminds us that enabling
two-factor authentication adds another
ID check the login attempts which would
help harden accounts
so okay two-factor authentication new to
it but I've been part of the show for
long enough to understand that it's
really important for security so I now
have two factor authentication right now
only on my Steam account okay it's
annoying it can be but it's every time I
do it every single time I'm trying to
log in on Steam and then I'm like
thinking oh there's my code being texted
to my phone and I get up and I go to my
phone and I come back like I feel a
little bit better right like I feel okay
not just anybody could just try and
figure out my password sure yeah I love
it
should we just start embracing
two-factor authentication just across
the board I feel like I think it's
definitely a good security mechanism I
mean it's it is what it is it's not
perfect but it's it's something
additional so what that means two-factor
authentication instead of just entering
my Twitter password when I do it will
send me a text and then I have to then
enter the text code right so two-factor
authentication makes sure that I am who
I say I am because I'm using the phone
that is associated with my account which
is great I find out with Twitter when
you be on your phone though with Twitter
yeah but usually you get a notification
and you can see it and it's like five
four three two one five four three two
one and you're done I like it I I mean I
realize it's it is not fun like it's
it's not easy but it makes me feel safer
that it's Jersey I think though that
better than anything out there is just
do not use the same password on multiple
sites on multiple services because if
the Twitter employees were malicious and
took those passwords which were stored
in an internal log in plain text format
yeah they they could and if they did and
they realized oh well sash's password is
also the one that she uses on her online
banking and does not have two-factor
authentication on that process I can now
access your banking so it's important to
have different passwords on everything
right which is something I don't do but
the reason for it is the same reason
that so many people don't do it
because it's impossible to remember a
password sure now I do have like a
program like it used to be past a
program I'm searching for the word
it used to be password box and it was
bought by somebody else I have that one
true key yeah yeah but I I can only save
so many passwords on it because it's
right so because of that I don't have a
lot of time I use LastPass now since
since password box was bought it I
didn't want to switch to Intel because
it was McAfee owned so I should have
been here for that did you say that
probably ah I don't know isn't it public
knowledge that we don't want to deal
with the cat well it is but it was just
like the simple transition cuz they're
like we're just changing all your stuff
oh yeah yeah should not have done that
evidently I like easy except when it
comes to two-factor authentication I
want to actually have to get up off my
couch walk to my phone get it and be
like ok yes indeed this is me so that
nobody hacks into my Steam account
something yeah ok
Thank You Twitter for not releasing
everybody's passwords and if you are a
Twitter user it's important that you do
change your password and if you use that
same password on other services you need
to change it there as well like your
online banking or something that's a
good example but anything it's that's
the that's the scenario Ford is
developing a new smart car window that
will enable blind passengers to
experience the passing landscape a
prototype called field-of-view uses high
contrast photos to reproduce scenery
using LED lights passengers can touch
the display to feel different shades of
grey vibrate at different intensities
the Royal National Institute of blind
people said the charity wholeheartedly
supports the company's effort Robbins
Fink's innovation manager at RnB says
the technology could contribute to
breaking down barriers and making travel
more enjoyable and inclusive for people
living with sight loss Ford's team in
Italy and GTB Roma designed the
prototype with a Deo a local startup
that creates devices for people with
visual impairments
in addition to the window displays the
smart car also features a voice
assistant that uses artificial
intelligence to describe the scenery
outside the window meat this is really
cool and like really leads me to think
okay so if they can do this can they do
it with art right so then right or could
they do family really they really don't
like people touching the Mona Lisa right
yeah but if they if they could do like
if they could do a representation of the
Mona Lisa where you touch it and you can
feel the different colors by the vibrant
future screens browsing similar
technology I love this and it makes me
wonder is there a way and I know you
won't have the answer to this I don't
probably will okay when you have a part
of your say your brain blind right so
it's your brain that does it it's not
your eyes that are buying those brain
blind can you rewire so that you can
like your visual kind of indicators or
like you feel something but you can kind
of see it in your mind I think you were
right the first time that I wouldn't
know that right could you actually like
who knows people are driving by and
doing the scenery they're blind and
they're feeling what's going on yeah
perhaps finally they're reigniting parts
of their brain visually maybe right you
know you don't know but I wonder what
that sensation would be like though for
for somebody who is unable to see but is
able to now feel the mountainscape
that's going by on the outside and can I
can I take it to one step further yes we
talked about Tesla and their autonomous
vehicles and how it's really unsafe for
people to just stop paying attention to
the road right now well some of us think
that and in fact last week you mentioned
somebody got arrested for switching over
to the passenger seat and allowing the
car to drive by themselves right but
isn't it true that companies like Tesla
and Ford and and other automobile
manufacturers are working toward a fully
autonomous vehicle right so if that's
what they're working toward
could this be maybe this is prophetic
but could Ford be working on in secret a
car for blind people I would love that
think about it I would love it the car
does the driving for you yes you can
feel the sensor to see what's going on
around you and to see what is outside
your windows could that be the next step
could that be something that they are
actually I would love them if I
disappear and there's no show next week
you'll know I'm right right there's
gonna be henchmen are already after me
for this the Ford henchmen don't worry
they'll break down on their way here
hey now hey hey I love it
wouldn't it be neat yes what do you
think Robbie right well I'm not arguing
against it so you're right I think
that's what they're doing what they're
doing I don't it makes no sense for them
to be making a window that you can touch
that is like Braille that makes no sense
they want your ass unless blind people
ten years from now will be able to drive
a car and they want it to be a Ford
that's my theory yes I imagine that this
is true
cool stinking cool imagine the
frustration of playing a game with the
difficulty level can constantly changed
that's what an experiment in AI
technology is doing to some retro
classics AI researchers do love their
games and two papers have shown that
they can use in general adversarial
networks or gans to make old favorites a
lot more interesting in two separate
papers AI researchers built general
adversarial networks to construct new
video games for retro classics Super
Mario Brothers and doom Gans were first
introduced in 2014 the system is made up
of two networks a generator and a
terminator the generator creates fake
samples of training data and the
discriminator tries to determine if the
samples are real or fake both networks
spar with one another and over time the
generator learns to forge more realistic
samples to trick the discriminator by
applying them to entertainment this
researchers hope that they will be used
to help humans design better video games
in the future the doom of paper details
a level design is usually how usually
heavily relies on domain expertise good
practices and an extensive play testing
though to deal with these issues several
game researchers are spending
considerable effort on studying and
designing procedural content generation
systems that exploiting machine learning
and search algorithms can model the
level design process and assists human
defect designers Adam Smith co-author of
the paper and an assistant professor at
the University of California said Mary o
Gann creates new levels of very quickly
but occasionally make structural
mistakes such as in completely
assembling pipe tiles it's a similar
process for Doom a thousand doom levels
are processed into a set of training
images that include the game's most
important features the walkable area
walls floor height objects and room
segmentation but if you're itching to
have a go at those AI generated games
you'll have to wait a while both
projects are still prototypes and can't
be played quite yet although the code
for the Super Mario game can be found on
github sebastian Ricci who co-authored
the paper said it's a problem that the
teams are working on he says in the next
version we want to create a level that
continually adapts its difficulty to the
player haha no way love it could you met
this is the future of games here this is
not just to the future of games in my
opinion I actually think that this is
the future the future is controlled by
create our world of learning okay so if
you follow me here ok so say
hypothetically you have a VR headset and
you're playing in a VR game and it's a
simulation game
and say it's something small at first
right it's something where you have to
move an object right and it gets harder
and harder where eventually you all of a
sudden have like a mechanical expertise
because it's it's evolving with you sure
you become a neurosurgeon right yeah
right what I'm saying it's teaching you
thinking about the games we talked with
Richard poor telly way back episode
number 512 I just wanted to quickly
search our website category 5 TV for
this tax accords orb composer do you
remember that interview we were talking
about how they they had developed an
artificial intelligence to automatically
adapt the music of a game to suit the
mood of where you are in the game right
so if you're in a forest all of a sudden
it's kind of like a little bit of a pad
kind of sounding and Beyond and then you
get into a really racy kind of adventure
set and all of a sudden it's really
different and it's all automatic right
through AI now what if we took orb
composer and integrated into this AI
system that creates the levels and
you're playing this game in virtual
reality with your vibe on right and it
is always always always different that
is awesome
virtual reality becomes reality right
this this would grow like just the mind
of like the cognition of people so much
you get stagnated you're in a game that
you you love so you play it a lot it but
it's good at the level yeah you get
really good at the level this is gonna
fire your bros i can just ace right
level one world one well now there's a
new shelf or now there's a new right
like something's happening where you
would usually jump you can't jump there
anymore and it happens fast and you have
to react quickly real and it makes you
better at life because now you're good
right you're using the training now that
you your your training your brain and
your training your responses and your
training your reflexes in a position
where you're relaxed but now you're
taking that into the real world right
and you're a better driver because of it
or what if you are autistic or what if
you have
like PTSD or something like this and
they're able to cope with that through a
reality scenario so now game development
becomes not level creation but more
scenario development right so here's the
scenario here are the specifications we
know that the PTSD that this person is
dealing with has to do with this so
let's create a scenario around that idea
and allow the AI to adapt to them well
yeah even like I think about like team
safety training there are scenarios for
say emergency responders that they
wouldn't even think could possibly
happen right you couldn't you cannot
imagine the thing somebody can fall
between two walls that you never even
thought would happen but the AI could
probably come up with a scenario right
then yeah right so all of a sudden
you're in a realistic feeling scenario
so that when a call does come in and
something bad has happened you already
have the composure emotionally okay I
know how to do this then you go there do
that through my phone oh man there's so
much potential in this I know I know
they're nowhere near that yet it's still
super mario bros levels and they haven't
got them to create the pipes correctly
but thinking in the future like 10 years
ago 15 years ago we were looking at
games that had terrible graphics
compared to what we've got now right so
it could happen this is this is
happening we are going to become such a
better species because of this like yes
we're gonna just be a far more aware I
see it as a real opportunity for
entertainment think about that scenario
idea creating a scenario for a TV show
and then allowing the AI to create the
characters and have them interact with
one another right and then have orb
Composer create the music for you I just
I just know from my personal experience
that I'm becoming a better boxer there
you go right because you were just as
mediocre boxer previous before I never I
never thought a boxing match and now
that I've been playing boxing video
games it feels real I feel and I would
never be in a boxing ring are you
kidding me if I beat all
but but I feel like these sorts of games
are actually what will train people okay
police and fire departments and oh yeah
I like a very cool you know what I don't
like this next story Oh
Equifax has published yet more details
on the personal records and sensitive
they hacked its databases last year the
cyber break-in occurred because Equifax
ran an unpatched and therefore insecure
version of Apache struts something it
blamed on a single employee that said
just three months ago at the RSA kin
conference in San Francisco Derek weeks
of Sona type claimed thousands of
companies they'll continue to download
vulnerable versions of struts the good
news the company their the number of
individuals affected by Equifax Network
intrusion has not increased from the one
one-hundred and forty six point six
million the Equifax previously announced
but extra types of records accessed by
the hackers however have turned up in
men and Mandaeans outgoing audit of the
security breach on Monday Equifax
submitted a letter to the SEC corporate
America's financial watchdog
brace yourself here's a summary of the
numbers as well as the one hundred and
forty six point six million names one
hundred and forty six point six million
dates of birth one hundred forty five
point five million social security
numbers at ninety nine million street
addresses and 209,000 payment cards
including the number and expiry date the
company has now said that there were
also 38,000 American driver's license
and 3200 passport stolen as well the
extra data elements the company said
didn't involve any individuals not
already known to be part of the super
hack so no additional consumer
notifications are required
this is just like heebie-jeebie stuff
like do you have advice on how to
prevent that you can't prevent it
this is Equifax yeah like you you trust
them with your data because they're
amplified their Equifax like there
what can you even do you can't do
anything like can you start life over
because they have the power to make or
break people based on their credit
scores right and now like I just think
the stuff that's been stolen is the way
to create an entire identity really like
okay now I know your name I know your
birthday I know your address I know your
credit card number and expiry date I
know your passport number I know your
driver's license am I missing anything
am I missing anything where I could just
walk in somewhere and say okay listen I
forgot my ID but here are some things
you need to know about me do you believe
I am I'm Sasha Rickman and here's my
driver's license here's I worked at a
bank I worked at a bank and I was not
hacked that's not that's wrong I was
somebody stole from me phishing scam or
something somebody walked in and this is
yeah and end day to the trick you see
with their words okay so I'm sensitive
to this because it happened to me and I
no longer work at a bank but but the
thing is if somebody has enough
information that they can have a
conversation with you and sound
confident in it people are gonna believe
that you are who you say you are are and
maybe that's it
and there's a flip side to that Sasha in
that if somebody has enough information
about you personally yeah you will
believe that they are who they say they
are right on the entire flip side of
someone pretending to be you there is
someone calling you up and pretending to
be someone they're not
yeah and presenting themselves with
information that convinces you that they
are that yeah for example or a Bricklin
yeah yeah
right yeah yeah yeah who's this oh this
is this is Dave Jenkins from from Harvey
C Royal Bank of Canada and we see that
you have an account with us and your
account number is such-and-such and
here's your you know we've got your date
of birth for example so that we can now
confirm to you that we are who we say we
are so you know I'm on the bank and and
I'm calling because there's been an
exploit of the bank and we need you to
immediately sign in to our web portal in
order to add two-factor authentication
to your account so that your account
cannot be compromised in your money
stolen so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
send you a link to this to this portal
that's going to allow you to add the
two-factor authentication so I'll send
that over to now I already have your
email address don't worry here it is you
receive that okay yeah click there okay
now push that button yeah now log into
your online banking perfect have a nice
day I've transferred all your money away
like just an example right it's just
just I don't even it's unspeakably scary
how bad this would be I mean I guess
Equifax has notified the people who are
victim to this but how do you know if
it's not Equifax how do you know that
this hasn't already happened to you you
you can't necessarily know you really
have to walk with caution the part that
scares me
the part that really scares me in this
whole thing and I'm still on me trying
to prove Who I am in the situation if I
did indeed lose all of my stuff and now
there's this increased level of
skepticism who's going to believe I am
Who I am sure because now they're just
gonna assume everybody stolen everybody
else's data and how do you prove how do
you prove you you're you and how do you
prove in it like I have had it happen
before this breach where somebody had
somehow put a debt on my Equifax record
that did not exist right like it was
something like 11.6 million dollars
it was ridiculous so I had to fight it
to get them to get it removed from my
credit record because I couldn't buy a
house I couldn't do anything because
this was on my credit record somebody
had been able to compromise my my record
like that so then when a bank would
check my account through Equifax to see
if I can get a house what you're already
owe you owe eleven point six million
dollars which I do not write thankfully
yeah yeah thankfully I was able to prove
otherwise but what about a case where
they have access to all of your
information and can now damage your
credit rating and everything else it's a
scary situation so what can you do
really just keep a close eye on your
bank accounts keep a close eye on things
make sure your passwords are up to date
make sure you are very cautious of
phishing scams like that phone
conversation the RBC just have massage I
recommend but it can also happen in
person ten which is scary just you have
to be out extra cautious right across
the board trust no one
that breaks my heart I know it's such a
world and such a world there's more good
out there than bad it's true let's keep
it that way okay all right
big thanks to Roy W Nash in our
community of viewers for submitting
story sauce this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Rickman and I'm Robbie Ferguson thank
you for joining us this week
[Music]
