you can find our website category 5 TV
tonight we're kind of changing up the
format of the news a little bit because
we do have a lot of kids here in the
studio and they're you know they're
occupied so let's cover whatever we want
yeah yeah so let's get right into it and
make sure you post your comments in the
chat room as well if you have any for us
so what stories have you got for us
tonight well the first story which is
awesome playstation that's my patient
now which is it's like a sony's naps or
would like game streaming service right
yes I've heard of that okay so it'll let
subscribers play ps4 games on with their
windows PP really yeah so you can
actually play your ps4 games on the
teeth on the computer yes right that's
cool now I thought this was interesting
considering I mean unless there was some
sort of amalgamation and I'm not aware
of the fact that its PlayStation games
on a Windows machine I fully expected it
for xbox sure and I do believe in Xbox
that you have something that you can but
I was very interested to hear those
PlayStation yeah so I'm wondering as far
as the back end programming to make this
happen does this now open up the door
for being able to mod these games into
linux-based systems Oh would not be nice
that would be really good so this is
exciting especially because i have a ps4
and love nice so do you use the
playstation now i feel right i do not do
enter playstation no service i do not
think i don't know what i use all right
Oh roller code it's all gonna do this
thingy she said this was the kind of
person more like jump Chuck yanking the
thing off of the mantle you know not
that that ever happens kidding ever
there's a story we're talking about a
smart jacket when I think about a smart
jacket I think about the british phrase
for something that is smart but an
actual smart denim jacket it looks just
like a jean jacket but they've
incorporated some smart technology into
it so it actually communicates with your
phone
yes and you can use that to control it
that what i thought was interesting is
white denim Neville is not help but
notice a wary of cyclists i think was
one of the things right the future have
people why would you hold me Adam jacket
knowing that I'm is normally an odd
choice haha 25 go with my leather
leather but it is cool that you can just
swipe on the sleeve and get yeah well
you know what I've seen people on their
bikes holding their phone texting doing
not that anyone ever drives intact okay
but but how is it going to be active
angel instead of just looking at their
sleeve here's that no not a screening
your bike right your sleeve is right
there and it's not a screen it's right
cool we're talking on to the mean okay
phone rings yeah okay and typically
you're biking along you pull the phone
out of your pocket and hold it to your
ear and you're like this and you know
and you're having to answer it like this
or you're having to make a call by
dialing and for some reason you don't
stop right for all you need is your
swype denim jacket and your communicator
there you go now we're talking that's
not good styling mask until you get a
little bit of mud on your sleeve you
know and then you like calling mom no no
don't come on kiddos everybody who's in
the studio can you guys keen guys hear
me has anyone here ever heard of boaty
mcboatface
boaty mcboatface you never heard of that
really I don't you remember this but
there was a failed social experiment
yeah didn't they look people got to vote
the name of a new submarine yeah like a
big it was initially a boat it wasn't
assault weapons on the subway big boat
like you like it was like a quarter
million i'm looking for the yeah quarter
of a billion dollars this boat that's
more than my house right i do you think
so that's using a guard math for your
ringer so a quarter of a billion dollar
boat and they put up on social media
help us name this boat whoever gets the
most votes is going to get to name the
boat Oh what got what got the most votes
OD mcboatface boaty mcboatface so gentle
open anyways tell us the story what's
going on okay so oh thanks Savannah
she'll be back don't worry stepped
outside cattle and I'll mommy okay so
the body mcboatface boaty mcboatface
there's actually more than one bode
there is AI guess if there's a bode
family ee family home on one of the
boats one of the bodies is a submarine
and it's going to I guess head out on
the adventures of Bodie in Punta Aries
and oh I'm so hard your names in Chile
okay here's what I want to know are they
gonna have David Bowie I'm out on Bodhi
ah be amazing they're like we've got it
all over here to introduce bode that'd
be nice yeah so there you have it bode
mcboatface is about to take its maiden
voyage this is really happening this is
real life it sort of reminds me of the
dull in our technology to be honest with
you because bulimic boat face the
submarine yeah is going to be mapping
like the deep waters and trying to clear
it some clothes like climate change not
grateful cool imma change within the law
we are all that's cool Halloween have
come in early kids oh this is a creepy
story you guys know this is a very good
if you guys know what Amazon echo is or
Alexa has anyone heard of that they are
right into the video games now so Amazon
Alexa is an artificial intelligence that
you can talk to and see edit respond
talk about the storage is creep oh yeah
better part of the story is somebody
made their Billy bass you know that
it'll fit genre yeah they turned that
into Alexa okay somehow the mouth would
move after that Apple timing of Alexis
speaking yeah that's kind of fun but
this plays with some this one's yours
the creepy part if you ready for it good
it's just called a skull on articulating
role on a stand that talks the voice of
the legs eyes move really creepy yeah so
this is it this is an artificial
intelligence that you talk to and you
say what's the weather and all of a
sudden the skull starts telling you the
weather let's just agree that is kind of
cool kind of creepy the worst part would
be you have like a bad dream you get out
to go grab a lot about the middle or the
Alexa what time is it any other hi what
time is enough sometimes I'll can you
get this at all that's right that's cool
I'm say wait god yeah I would yeah
[Music]
[Applause]
