never where the makers of cloud-ready
posted on Twitter and tagged us and said
you ready for this I am ready
Sasha yes this cloud ready speaking yeah
Sasha
want to be the unofficial cloud ready
Home Edition spokeswoman it includes
some cloud ready stickers to replace
that Windows 7 one yeah yes so I mean
what will we do for stickers I know
first of all we would make it official
that we they you I guess I would be why
is it all you
I love cloud ready I said some nice
things about cloud ready I love cloud
ready do I super love cloud well y'all
sure if I got a cloud ready okay I got
sticker space Hey look at that Dell logo
right there we need to cover that with a
cloud ready singer category five cloud
ready eyes like just confirmed
unofficial spokesperson because you've
confirmed it you're now the official
unofficial spokesperson okay you may
have a sticker may I
you may Wow I do have actually by buying
power now like can you access could I
get a new laptop no but you can for free
on your laptop can i yes oh thanks buddy
and I can show you how how's it been
going by the way with cloud ready the
cloud ready of course we've shown it on
the show here it is a free way that you
can turn your laptop or desktop computer
into a Chromebook or Chrome OS system so
you've converted this what was a Windows
7 machine right that we then converted
into a boon to matei that you then
converted into a Chromebook right using
cloud ready how's it been doing love it
late I see you've got this quarter I
have discord up so yeah we had a little
bit of a hurdle to jump to get this cord
off but it happened it's up and that was
just that was the final just piece of
the pie it was the one thing that you
were having issues with and right and
like I love
my laptop I love this cord why can't you
be friends so how did that come about
you oh like what did you have to go
through to get this board working
because it was working originally yes it
was working and then also an update
right so I was boring yours for the show
you're a laptop for the show so I could
be on this cord but I wasn't loving how
that felt because this one is the one I
love so I was at my house on Sunday
night popped into discord on my phone
doing my homework on my laptop and
making really good homemade on your
cloud ready Chromebook yes we need to
rename it now it's no longer a laptop
it's a cloud ready cry exactly I feel
like while she's relying how wonderful
this is we should like zoom in so it's
just Sasha right because she is now the
unofficial official spokesperson do we
really need to make it official like so
like I'm not even allowed to know you
and you better be in the frame we got it
we got it so you go alright on discord
and I die I am on my phone and I'm like
oh I still don't have my laptop Marsh
man yeah so Marshall you know him he was
here any person he drove eight hours
with his wife to be here in studio D he
for a broadcast on in onto my laptop oh
yeah yeah onto your cloud ready
Chromebook cloud ready Chromebook he
that's cool so he popped on in there and
just played around a little bit talk to
garvey's what was in the chat room
between the two of them I don't know I
could not follow exactly what they did
like Bill with every source like there's
like a scene from like Star Trek where
the aliens are talking over Will Riker
and it's just like yeah and you know
that they're operating you don't really
know what they're doing you're awake
you're away can you hear the noises and
you know what the something's happening
right so pretty much I just watched I
was eating I made homemade mango
sherbert it was delicious
I don't know how we got there but we got
there okay so I'm just eating
check it happen and all of a sudden BAM
I've disc worked it works yes how did
marsh man get into your laptop in the
first place because that's the security
question that will come up people will
say oh well is cloud-ready secure can
people just remote in and get access to
know I had to install a thing a thing so
if you want to give remote access this
this is the official unofficial
spokeswoman for cloud ready here you
install a thing that's right
can you please expand on that you
install a thing and that thing gives you
a code and you tell them the code so are
you talking about TeamViewer yes oh yes
okay and then there's like a password
situation it's like it's like charades
really yeah a little bit to say like
widget or bidet or something like some
random word I got it in first guess so
I'm up two points okay so then I pretty
much right straight after that he was in
it asks a few times throughout whether
or not I want him to remain in the
actual okay like just because it takes
time and I guess it's secure that way so
we'd kick him off if I said no but I was
happy to have him there and I think I
don't know something about a flat-pack
is that is that a thing flat-pack yeah
app images and stuff and I think
droppings okay so just reinstalled
discord yes in a different method right
okay cool
yes so needless to say it's working it's
fast it's doing everything that you need
it to do how's it been for like school
and everything else perfect
yeah everything about it is intuitive
easy to use I have tons of space in my
like storage isn't that interesting yeah
cuz a Chromebook in and of itself like
if you went and bought a Chromebook
essentially because it's meant to use
the cloud they have very little storage
right internally right so because you've
actually converted an old school laptop
into a Chromebook using cloud right
you've still got the hard drive that was
originally Windows 7 so it's however
many hundreds of gigs versus maybe the
eight gigs that you might have had in a
Chromebook or 16 gigs or something like
that so you've got massive amounts of
space for stuff right which you don't
even really need it's just like overkill
it's overkill yeah
the marsh man says and you see it there
on your screen
oh I guess we're not refreshing again
here on discord on the right-hand side
of your screen that's okay we'll fix
that during the break Marsh man does say
in discord TeamViewer did not work as a
matter of fact on Chrome OS it only
works out of the OS not in we had to
install the remote desktop extension
that's interesting okay remote desktop
extension gave him access temporarily to
be able to to help you there we go here
we are again Marsh man with the answers
that's right with the answers always
like I'm amongst two geniuses at all
times and and there you go you're you're
all set so that's really really cool
yeah I love it and now you get stickers
I know I get fingers apparently she's
gonna share those stickers so please
send three
[Music]
[Applause]
