hello my name is Kari and my name is Jen
and on today's show we're talking about
living in the danger zone so just stay
tuned
[Music]
an attorney
Oh
hi and welcome back to new everyday
where's no glad that you've tuned in we
are picking up our walk through the book
of Acts today yes and we had finished
off way back when
just before Stephen was introduced on
the scene so today we're going to be
looking at what's the setting around
Stephen before he actually was martyred
yes and one of the things that's
interesting about this passage is that
this is this passage is known as the
first Christian martyr like before
before this they had suffered opposition
Christians had suffered opposition but
no one had been killed for the faith yet
and so you might be thinking all about
John the Baptist that's why I was
thinking great question but what about
John the Baptist well what's the
difference between John the Baptist and
Stephen as in timeline John came first
well yeah okay let's add Jesus all
martyrs yes
timeout taken by vigilance I know but
this is how he works through things
sometimes like what is the difference
John actually was beheaded before the
death of Christ so they weren't actually
known as Christians like they were still
part of the Jewish faith at that point
like so John was beheaded as a prophet
of the coming Messiah right so so part
of the Jewish faith so he would be
considered part of like the Old
Testament prophet the old alas told us
he was the last Old Testament prophet
okay and so Stephen came after the death
of Christ so he was the first Christian
martyr who died believing that Jesus was
the son of God
okay like that was the reason why he was
he was killed for that he was killed for
that reason whereas John the Baptist was
beheaded simply because Herod didn't
like what he was saying right he was
calling him to repentance
just as the Old Testament prophets
called people to repentance right so so
that's where the difference is so if
you've ever wondered what about John the
Baptist well that's still wonders
hmm so we're going to look at a little
bit of this background as Carrie said
first this setting was like what is it
that led to this first martyrdom so you
want me to just jump in and I'll read
young acts 6 verse 8 to 15 just before
ah yes I will
Stephen a man full of God's grace and
power performing amazing miracles and
signs among the people
oh sorry performed amazing miracles and
signs among people but one day some men
from the synagogue of freed slaves as it
was called started to debate with him
they were Jews from Cyrene Alexandria
Silesia and the province of Asia none of
them could stand against the wisdom and
the spirit by which Stephen spoke so
they persuaded some men to lie about
Stephen saying we heard him blaspheme
Moses and even God this roused the
people the elders and the teachers of
the religious law so they arrested
Stephen and brought him before the High
Council the lying witnesses said this
man is always speaking against the holy
temple and against the law of Moses we
have heard him say that this Jesus of
Nazareth will destroy the temple and
change the customs Moses handed down to
us at this point everyone in the High
Council stared at Stephen because his
face became as bright as an angel very
interesting so as I first I have to be
honest I probably read that passage at
least 20 to 30 times okay and I'd never
struck me the similarities between what
what Stephen was being accused of and
what Jesus was being accused of because
they did well they brought people to lie
they actually found people to lie
against Jesus and against Stephen and
also he spoke about they they accused
Jesus of going to destroy the temple in
three days build it again yes right yes
and saying here with Stephen at the
argument is around the temple this man
is always speaking
the holy temple and I use the law of
Moses and they were concerned about them
changing the laws yes and so that is and
part of what we need to understand is
why should it matter right because we in
the Christian faith the temple really
doesn't have a central part of our faith
we don't think well I have to get up and
go to Temple or I have to see the temple
like but for the Jewish faith the temple
was this like it was the center of their
identity that's where they were it had
been created for them to go and worship
God people would make pilgrimages to it
and what's interesting is these groups
of worshipers were coming from quite a
distance like Jews from Cyrene
Alexandria Silesia the province of Asia
yeah Asia like they're trekking they are
trekking it's a pilgrimage right so they
are coming to be at the temple so they
can worship God so they have sacrificed
a lot along the way then to get there
yes which is very interesting and so
we're going to actually pause right here
and you're thinking yeah but we're just
getting into and I'm like no I want you
to think about what is it that I have
sacrificed to worship God all right
we'll be back
well back Jeff Weston GEMA you're
building a brand-new beautiful website
what
are you alright you're terrible actor
what this we're acting comes into play I
don't know where Isaac you're supposed
to act okay fair enough
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website you
need hosting one of the things about a
hosting account is you don't want to
have limitations put on your website
it's true how much hard drive space you
have how many email accounts how many
domains can point to it well we've got
an amazing deal for you for a very
limited time cap five dot TV slash dream
host for just five dollars and a bit of
change per month you are going to get
unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the rules are your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine
sign up cap 5 gb / dream host still put
a toilet papers on it just don't do it
but hey it's a great deal folks best
deal you're going to find 5 dollars and
change per month go to cap 5 dot TV /
dream host hi and welcome back thank you
for staying with us on new every day we
just wanted to stop and thank our
partners who have helped me this show
possible if you go to our website new
everyday TV and click on our partners
page you will see a whole bunch of
organizations businesses who have
stepped up and said yes we are going to
help support this show and actually we
have a new partner genuine success
audible is a book an audible book so
audiobooks yes
audible.com is a organization that has
audio books for sale that's the very
basic way of explaining it but I have a
subscription to them and it's great
because I can go online and I can I have
a membership so I get a new credit you
need one credit every you get a new
credit every month in one credit buys
one books one book and sometimes they
have like really good deals like I just
bought aw Tozer stuff like how to be
filled with the Holy Spirit was like
four bucks and I was like
yeah and the thing is this is what I
love about audiobooks is when I'm riding
my bike or when I'm out walking I can
just put it in or when I'm in the car
driving long distances I put in an audio
book and I can listen and so it's the
same as getting the information from
book now I love books
I love the whole touchy-feely thing of
books and the soothing the pages of you
but there's something about being in a
car driving long distances when you
don't really have to pay attention
because you're on a major highway in the
middle of nowhere while you're just
going but when you're listening to
something it's so cool and why not you
know fill your mind and your thoughts up
with a really good book and I actually
just posted now I will forward it along
to you guys so you can see it but I just
posted like the 10 top Christian
classics and and some of those books are
on audible.com and you've been working
through those books actually like the
Anacin two pilgrims progress yes yeah
and so we really encourage you to you
know have a look at our partners page
see what's there that would help you
along in your Christian faith yeah and
so we encourage you to think about
audible.com and I have thoroughly
enjoyed it and yes so many times I'll
come out and I'll be like Carrie this is
what I'm listening to you got to listen
to it and she's like yeah I know miss
you up later and discussions and
sometimes on this show like yes I think
consuming lots of books and literature
really helps to enhance the way you
think exactly because sometimes you
don't have time to sit down and read a
book but if you're a commuter or meaning
the house or yeah a friend of mine
actually puts her audible books on like
1.5 or to tell me life's different
evenly they read and she listens and she
just sort of takes it in as she's
cleaning or preparing supper and she
just taken in really fast and I'm like
oh but me really talk like this and once
upon a time I was this one I don't oh no
way so anyways a great resource we
totally agree get like get some books be
reading because it helps just to
encourage your spirit and help you walk
through whatever it is that you're
walking and there's so many books to
choose from and they're not this is not
all Christian books there's what
non-common books and biographies and
autobiographies of i want to save
regular people who seem to be coming out
regular people but anyway so have a look
there but we're going to go back to like
the book which actually began as an the
first audible book because route it was
broken in the oral tradition so isn't
that interesting and so we took the
audible version made it on paper version
and now we're making it an audible
version again but i do think there's
some there there's a lot of merit
there's a lot of value in hearing the
word yeah
faith comes from hearing yes right the
bible says that you it builds your faith
when you actually hear it so i think
there's even value to reading scripture
out loud to yourself these are taking it
in more than one way yes I agree so
there's our little on so important to
like reading the Word of God and I'm
taking it in and and so here we are back
in looking at the setting before what
was taking place and I asked the
question what have you sacrificed for
your face because now the reason I ask
that question is because it's an
ownership it's an ownership idea it's I
deserve this because of what I have
given up then I deserve to get this and
it's okay so in relation to like these
pilgrims coming yes they would have
given up a lot to actually make set
aside time aside time away from a family
away from business for making money it
would cost them money to travel and then
stay in in Jerusalem at that time right
and the fact that if Stephen is probably
saying it's not about the temple it's
not about the temple if you think that's
is really around the month I think so
because that's because the temple is
their identity and so as soon as you say
it's not about the temple it's about
Jesus and the teaching of Jesus and the
fact that it was when he says I will
destroy this temple and I already said
again in three days he was talking about
himself and and you go back to the
Samaritan woman in chapter four of John
and she says but you tell us we have to
worship in Jerusalem we have to worship
in the temple and Jesus is like no no no
I
time is coming when you will worship in
spirit and in truth and so that even had
had grabbed ahold of that and was trying
to share that yes and so here are these
these pilgrims who have sacrificed
everything to come and worship at the
temple and he's like it's not about the
temple and they're like you mean I just
wasted all my money and my time over all
these years and I've been waiting 20
years to come and do this pilgrimage or
yeah they would they would they would
have to go a couple times of year for
the feast would they not
well now you ask a good Jewish question
of which I'm unsure if they were able to
go they were supposed yes yeah yes and
because it was part of their identity
right but here is this this man who is
saying no and so they're getting riled
up because but the law of Moses says
this is what you need to do and he said
yeah but Jesus is saying you're to
worship me in spirit and truth it's not
about the building it's not necessarily
even about the identity I want to say
the physical identity it really is about
you have Christ in our heart like what
is the content of your heart is that is
the content of your heart focused on
worshiping God like the true God or is
it really about I'm going to do this
this this and this so I could feel it
about myself and I know that I've done
it and and I've achieved this level of
spiritual sacrifice yes and so I've had
a couple of different conversations I
guess this week about people with people
who have died or I want to oh say
regular people where they say that they
were a good man
or they're a good man and so they you
know that's good right and in my heart
I'm like but it's not about being good
it's not about being good it's not about
the things that we do it really is about
what is in our heart and is that fully
surrendered and if God said give up
everything would you say well I'd given
up everything to serve you and even
Peter says that right he even says the
thought but Jesus we've given up
everything to serve you somewhere else
where we go like
even then there's no sense of but we
have given up everything like it's
almost like so now what are you going to
put the what's the kickback yes yeah
yeah it was interesting I had a dream
earlier this week about not giving up
everything because I I dreamt this is so
weird
I dreamt I was I was walking past a
wedding and like I'm involved in helping
plan a wedding this week and and I felt
obligated that I need to give a gift so
I happen to have a gift with me but I
really liked one of the bowls one of
salad bowls in there so I was like open
the gift and I took it out but I was
like it wasn't really intended for them
anyway if I'm doing them a favor so I'm
just going to keep this part back and
I'm going to tuck the rest and then in a
driven and I actually confess that I
took some of it back but making all
these like excuses of maybe why it
wasn't just perfect but held that gift
back from the wedding it was really
bizarre like why did I dream that and
you know I don't know why but I was
asking for some insight into that but
but it is not a sacrifice and it's not a
good gift know if it's not a sacrifice
or the willingness tha well I'm supposed
to give that well but what are you
giving it out of and I guess that I
think that's what Steven is getting at
here it's like are you pilgrimages to
the temple to seek God are you
pilgrimage into the temple because
that's just what we do in our culture
and I also think I mean they were
concerned that it was going to change
the customs Moses handed down to us and
it was the custom than the law at that
point really in obedience and doing a B
and C was their only means of really
interacting with God there was like this
exchange right yeah and he's saying no
this is totally different so it really
was kind of like flipping their whole
worldview on its head yeah and that
would that would get people shaking up
and really if someone did that to me and
suddenly said what you believe is not
true and here's why
here's what you have to do in order to
engage with God even if it's more simple
or yeah that would be significant
yes and so it's interesting that they it
says that they secretly persuaded some
men to say we have heard Stephen speak
words of blasphemy against Moses and
against God because it's like we need to
get rid of him so a wise man once said
to me when somebody says something to
you that you don't like don't throw it
out take it and test it okay and so it's
like were they even willing to listen to
Stephen to see if there was any truth in
what he said or was it just like you
know what I don't like it so I'm not
thrown out yes and I think his the next
part the sermon really highlights that
but that happens through time yes this
is history of Israel and so we're going
to pause right there and you're like
what we're just getting into it I'm like
I know but now I'm gonna have to wait
till next week but we want you two to
read over that passage this is Acts 6 8
to 15 I want you to think about why do I
worship God or maybe you haven't even
thought about worshipping God through
Jesus yet and you're like what does what
does this mean and it really means what
is like are you willing to surrender
your heart to him it's not about what
you do it's not thinking but I've done
this this this and this but are you
worshiping God are you willing to
worship God out of place of complete
surrender versus what do I have to do
well the doing is the surrender and then
God comes in and meets you there and
helps you live the life that he's called
you to live but not because of the fact
that you surrendered because then you
start saying but God I've given up
everything you I deserve this yeah it
becomes about striving it comes about
striving versus just walking walking
with the Lord and so we want you to
think about that this week and I believe
that's what Stephen was getting at it's
like what is the content of our heart
why are we doing this why are you doing
this and is it just a check mark off in
the box or do you really worship God
from your heart
well great questions great questions to
think about I'm just going to pray for
us and then we will say the next week
yes Father thank you for this reminder
of
of how you change people's hearts and
how you have moved through time through
history and how your word stands true
and we thank you for the example of
Steven which helped us to learn from
this what you want us to learn and I
pray God that you would be with our
viewers and our listeners this week by
the art ears and heart would be open to
you when you want when you're calling us
to beauty worship you differently for
with more sincerity side because we love
you we know that you have sacrificed
everything
thank you so much for tuning in again
I just feel like I have benefited so
much from sitting here and chatting and
and and being with you all so thank you
and tune in next week same time same
place we're going to just start going
