I have downloaded already the exact same
image so if I jump over here to the
Odroid xu4 queue I'm gonna see the exact
same thing in my downloads there they
are so a couple of differences in the
operating system obviously the Raspberry
Pi raspbian just gives me a thumbnail
kind of like circa Windows 98
whereas this is more like a it's a full
operating system with I can see the
actual preview of the image so what I
want to do is I want to right click and
I'm going to hover over opening it with
the GIMP GNU image manipulation program
I'm going to do that on the Raspberry Pi
as well and then we're gonna go side by
side and just see how they compare as
far as speed goes to load this up in the
GNU image manipulation program so as
long as I don't bump the mouse and click
in three-two-one
the Battle of the SPC's begins Odroid
xu4 q came up quicker and started
loading pretty much identical yeah I
would say I did even though the screen
seemed to come up quicker on the Odroid
exactly the image was in one of the
things that I do need to address with
the Odroid xu4 q is you'll see that I've
got some strange like the backgrounds
here are all blue that's like the theme
of the operating system I've just got to
fix that on the Raspberry Pi
out-of-the-box it looks nicer whether or
not that's an issue couldn't tell you
don't think so alright let's go we're
gonna right-click and we're gonna try
something here I want to do a scaling
operation so usually scaling is a pretty
intensive thing to do that's like
increasing or deep you know changing the
size of an image so on my ex u4q I'm
gonna go scale image and I'm gonna set
the height to 8,000 pixels and we're
gonna use 72 dpi and cubic interpolation
it's important to note these things
because we want it to be an exact
side-by-side head-to-head comparison we
want to set the settings exactly the
same on the Raspberry Pi 3 so over here
on the Raspberry Pi 3 image scale image
again 8,000 pixels height 72 dpi cubic
interpolation and I'm going to click
scale because it's prompting me are you
sure you want to create this image I'm
gonna do the same thing over here we're
gonna be prepared then to begin working
you'll see that each one says it's going
to be eight hundred and ninety six point
three megabytes so on the raspberry pi
I'm gonna hover over scale and on the
Odroid X u4q I'm already hovering over
scale so if we're ready when do the
countdown with the drumroll three two
one
click OK the Odroid xu4 cue is moving I
can see that kind of down at the bottom
there you see that progress indicator
it's a little more significant as far as
speed goes to the
very PI raspberry PI's doing it though
this is a great opportunity for us to
have a sip of our coffee and for you to
just stare at that progress indicator
yeah we need some suspenseful music here
I think here we go
it's real time folks keep in mind this
is a heavy operation on any system so
the this is that even happening on
single board computers just shows how
far technology has come
the Odroid is ever so slightly ahead
how's that gonna see real time let's see
what happens
boom Oh droid is done Raspberry Pi still
chugging along still check along that
vape I I can almost smell the heat
coming off of that processor and come on
you can do it you can do it right
there we go Raspberry Pi pulled it off
way to go that's the Raspberry Pi 3 ok
so now next up I want to let's let's try
something really really tough this is a
big image and this is obviously gonna be
really really heavy on any system
I'm gonna go filters and we're just
gonna add a 5% Gaussian blur
nice and simple Oh what does it say
failed to run plug in blur gauze failed
to fork cannot allocate memory this is
the Odroid xu4 cue that we're looking at
so it looks like I've hit that memory
threshold so can I just hit OK and just
do other stuff how's the responsiveness
here if I'm clicking around looks like I
can still do other things I have created
a rather significant image though
haven't I it is responsive can I do
anything with it blur Gaussian blur not
gonna not going to do it so we literally
do not have enough memory to be able to
work on this image now that it is a
ginormous image we're talking 12,000 by
8,000 in pixels so that is an
unreasonable size for for any case let's
see if I can do anything at all with it
blur no it's not gonna let me do it so
we have maxed out the Odroid xu4 it is
still very responsive though as you can
see can i scale down now maybe I can
scale down all right let's jump back
over to the Raspberry Pi 3 and we're
gonna try the same thing right click and
in note filters blur Gaussian blur what
the PI is going to allow it and the
Odroid xu4 is not how can that be
let's get a look at our system tools
system monitor and see what this is
telling me CPU is really low memory
we've we're using one point five
gigabytes 77.4 percent of the
what does the Raspberry Pi say do we
have the same tool we do not we may need
to use that each time jump into the
terminal h top tells me that we have
used we've exhausted the RAM completely
perhaps there's some swapping going on
here
yeah eighteen point five Meg's has been
swapped not sure if there's any swap
going on with the Odroid xu4 q there is
not no swapping happening and there is
still some RAM there so why is it not
letting me go
filters blur Gaussian blur so that's a
disappointing thing right there and that
could be software that's not necessarily
the board itself but we do need to see
in a real-world environment now it was
faster it got me there faster but
surprisingly it seems that gif doesn't
want to proceed it doesn't want to go
any further so that's one test where
okay the Raspberry Pi has passed and the
Odroid xu4 queue while it was very much
faster in the rescale operation it it
failed when it came to adding the
Gaussian blur to that massive image so
let's go back to the Raspberry Pi 3 here
we're gonna get back out of that and
we're gonna go back to a reasonable
image size I'm gonna control Z and
control Z here so keep in mind that now
we're back at a standard image size of
it looks like three thousand by two
thousand pixels so if I does it release
the RAM let's find out yeah okay
so it is going to allow me to now that
the image is back at a more reasonable
size so let's undo everything get back
so that we're again comparing one to one
okay there's that
and there's that so over at X u4q
let's add a gauzy and blur of what say
he 20% let's make it heavy and the blur
method is RLE using the wrong keyboard
there so I've probably zoomed in on the
Raspberry Pi here we go
and I've closed out of a couple things
no worries all right right click filters
blur Gaussian blur I closed my tools
there just so you know that's why the
Raspberry Pi now looks a little bit
different but side-by-side they are
doing exactly the same thing Raspberry
Pi we're gonna go
hover over okay and the Odroid x u4q
we're gonna do the same and three two
watch those progress indicators again
the X u4q just blast past the Raspberry
Pi though the Raspberry Pi is doing very
very well it seems at the very last
second though the Raspberry Pi locks up
and then waits for a moment and then the
the thing happens whether it be blurring
or rescaling so I think the the Odroid x
u4q i mean the the the one test that it
failed is this huge massive image that
nobody's going to ever work with a
twelve thousand by eight thousand
picture on an SBC anyways you need a
supercomputer for that but it did fail
that where the Raspberry Pi kept going
so so do keep that in mind that the
Raspberry Pi did pretty well and that is
again probably an operating system or
software difference between them
[Music]
[Applause]
