welcome back this is category five
technology TV Sasha do you remember when
we tried to pilot a new show called try
it buy it that was a fun one episode
instead it was so much fun
depending on where you're located in
this big ol world of ours
you may remember it as either the Sega
Mega Drive or the Sega Genesis and now
more than a quarter of a century after
its original release in Japan it's more
convenient than ever to take these
classic Sega games with you my review is
coming right up so stick around try it
[Music]
Sega Genesis portable unit and it has
it's got it's got the works
it has ton no man like if you want to
play Sonic the Hedgehog it's it's there
can you all see that classic right so
this is the portable that you reviewed I
had to bring it out because tonight is a
little bit of a retro gaming throwback
and bear with me I'll be a little while
one of the things that was really cool
about this though this device is not
only does it have a built in screen but
it also has an adapter that you can plug
into the jack and now you can plug it
into your standard old TV set right
perfect with the RCA right right but no
HDMI output so it doesn't work on a
modern TV unless it has a VN which a lot
of them do so we were still pretty good
to play this up on the big screen I
think you plugged it into your 60-inch
TV and tried it out so did you know that
the Raspberry Pi also supports this
cable so if you plug this into the
headphone jack of the Raspberry Pi it
automatically detects it and senses it
and says oh that's not headphones that'd
be an RCA cable let's switch over to AV
mode so now the the Raspberry Pi works
on a standard old-style CRT TV now that
I bring to your attention because there
is no more ultimate retro gaming
experience than sticking it up on a 22
inch
CRT TV right you gotta admit that's
retro right that is right child what
else would be super retro oh I want to
tell you all about it I can't wait to
show you the case that we're looking at
tonight but first of all we took it to
the next level on episode number 442
because we're so into retro gaming and
so we sat down and we built the first
retropie that we had ever built it is
lovely and it works great and they're
still using that so you guys are still
enjoying this plugged in by HDMI yeah on
a 60-inch TV now this is a Raspberry Pi
3 now I lied a little bit this wasn't
the first retropie we built because we
tried it on a Raspberry Pi 2 first okay
then you bought the Raspberry Pi 3 for
the upgrade and it has run fantastically
well but there was one thing that didn't
run well do you remember what that was
putting on the spot there was a
particular system that's built into the
retro pie and I retropie there were some
games that didn't work in the n64 yes
the Nintendo 64 was like yes copy yeah
No so unplayable basically what a retro
pie is and you can go back to episode
number 442 if you want a retro throwback
but what it is now it's a distribution
of Linux that goes on to the micro SD
card on your Raspberry Pi microcomputer
so it's like this small and you can put
any number of game roms on there it's of
course like a Nintendo Entertainment
System Sega Genesis a KA Master System
Atari Atari 2600 7800 Lynx it's got it's
got everything and then it does have the
n64 it's got Sony Playstation the
original yeah which does play very well
surprisingly and and all kinds of
support we're gonna look at it in just a
couple minutes time one of the neat
things about it to Sasha if you want to
hold up your controller how do you
control it I can drill it with this with
a ps3 remote yep because the Raspberry
Pi 3 has built-in bluetooth so we're
able to use that
and sync it to the the Raspberry Pi and
it becomes a controller for the retropie
is what it's called because that's the
distribution of raspbian that that we
put on it and it's got emulators out the
wazoo and everything else I use an Xbox
controller I don't know if it's is this
an Xbox one or Xbox 360 controller I
don't know I picked it up at a used game
shop and it is not bluetooth so I had to
pick up this little guy here off of
Amazon it was like 14 bucks nine bucks
something like that and it's just USB to
receiver for the Microsoft controllers
oh that's perfect yeah so retro gaming
is it's funny that retro gaming has come
so far in the past couple of years
because now retropie the distro has
brought up version 4.4 so what's new
with 4.4 boy well let's say what's new
with the Raspberry Pi let's just say the
B+ how's that so the the new Raspberry
Pi 3 model b+ it came out and it's 1.4
gigahertz processor it's got its more
powerful it's faster it runs cooler and
theoretically it should be able to run
our emulators better than the original
Raspberry Pi 3 which clocks out as caps
out at 1.2 gigahertz and when it gets
warm it clocks down to 900 megahertz
like 0.9 gigahertz so this one's a lot
faster the Raspberry Pi 3 B plus so the
4.4 release of retropie introduces
support for the Raspberry Pi 3 B+ that's
what we're excited about now it also
brought in now not the image the image
file can only be burnt to a Raspberry Pi
card so you can only move it from a
Raspberry Pi however they've also put a
lot of effort into creating scripts to
allow you to install retropie on other
platforms so you know the Odroid xu4 q
that i have is a super powerful 8 core
SBC it's available on that it's
available on the c 1 c 2 x u 2x u 3x u 4
I don't
it's like all the Oh droids but then the
new version brings out the SU stinker
board support as well so if you're a
tinker board tinkerer then rudimentary
support for that now as well through the
scripting of that so performance is
meant to be a lot better on the
Raspberry Pi 3 B+ now because it's got a
better processor we're gonna put that to
the test tonight when we launched our
Nintendo 64 stuff shall we look at how
we obtained retropie we shall first of
all back it up a little bit how to get a
PI a Raspberry Pi go to cat 5 dot TV
slash PI as I move this stuff around I
so badly want to show you what our retro
pie looks like decide we're gonna take a
look at that in just a couple of minutes
time okay so I'm gonna bring up retro
pie now we talked about Raspberry Pi
we're used to p i rights but it's
actually pi like they took it one step
further and said no no this is the
edible and so let's bring it up on my
screen
retro pie this is a weird one dot org
dot uk' not co dot uk' dot org dot uk'
that's gonna bring you here tells you
all about retro pi and again so you buy
the Raspberry Pi unit and put it
together in whatever case you want make
it you know however you want tonight
we're taking it to the next level of
retro Ness with a very retro case but
you don't have to do that you can just
use the stock case that comes with the
kit if you like but here retro pie is
the distribution that we're gonna use so
you don't on a Raspberry Pi you don't
have to install raspy inner noobs and
then install retropie that's a real
roundabout way to do it it can be quite
onerous so what you can do instead is
just download the complete image it's
ready to go it's ready to deploy you
just boot it up and it's done so that's
what I'm gonna show you tonight real
briefly so you can see retropie version
4.4 was released April 14th 2018 with
all of the bonuses that we mentioned and
we've got support for the zero
the one which you know I don't know how
the gaming would be on there maybe NES
classic would be fantastic but certainly
the the Atari stuff and then there's
these supported the Raspberry Pi 2 and 3
which includes the B+ so when you click
on that it's going to download you an
image dot GZ file so if you're on
Microsoft Windows you're going to need a
program called 7-zip in order to to
extract that file because you need the
image file if you're on Linux or Mac OS
you're going to be able to extract that
just by right-clicking on it and go
extract her here something like that
so once you've downloaded that now
here's where some folks actually you
know find this a little bit almost
confusing because you know what how do I
install this now I've I've got my SD
card and I've copied that image file on
to it and I don't understand why it
won't boot and that's because we
remember how we used to have to boot
burn CDs yes when you burned a CD then
you could boot it but you had to burn it
using special software that would create
the boot loaders and everything else so
same thing goes for your SD card it's
actually a very similar process but
we're gonna use a program that is freely
available and all this stuff is free
other than the hardware but we're gonna
go to at your dot i/o and when we go
there this is available on Windows Mac
and Linux and you're gonna download this
program and just follow the prompts nice
and simple there it is for Windows Mac
and Linux this is a great tool for
burning your stuff and I say burning we
still use that term even though and that
comes from the laser that's edging into
a write there's no real burnin you're
not actually burning your but the term
still exists and and it still applies so
so what you do is you you then browse to
the image that you downloaded this is a
screenshot here so with select image you
browse to the image then you plug in
your SD card for your Raspberry Pi and
it will automatically select it and then
you hit flash and just make sure that
that second step that you have indeed
selected the correct card it's probably
best I always recommend unplug all your
like USB flash drives and everything
else before you do this because you
wouldn't want to accidentally overwrite
the wrong exactly that way there's no
messing around you
exactly what it is exactly I would do
the wrong thing first no no now I would
do the right thing and I want to show
you everything else that we've got to
show you here so that shows you a little
bit about how to get this
that's retropie get four point four or
higher when we come back I'm going to
show you what I think is probably the
ultimate retro geek case for the retro
pie system because we got a totally
retro it out right you get out this
suspense oh don't go anywhere whether
you shop on think geek gearbest B&amp;H
Photo Video eBay or Amazon or even if
you want a free trial of audible you'll
find the best deals and support the
shows we produce by simply visiting the
shopping sites you already frequent by
using the links on our website visit
category-five TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV tonight
is retro gaming night and that's because
retropie 4.4 has been released with
support for the Raspberry Pi 3 model b+
tonight we're going to put it to the
test we're gonna fire it up live on the
show and the rest of the show is just
gonna be us playing super mario bros so
first of all if you want to get yourself
a really cool retro case for your retro
pie head on over to cat 5 dot TV slash
hi are you ready for this yes ok first
of all with my brand new Raspberry Pi 3
B+ the first thing I want to do is I
want to put
heatsinks on it now these are available
on Amazon you can grab heatsinks they
probably know in my case they came with
the the kit that I bought from Kanna ket
so cat5 got TV /pha you buy the kit it
comes with heatsinks so I need to put on
the CPU heatsink just to keep that nice
and cool that's going to dissipate the
the heat even better than the the
improved cooling kind of metal cover
that's on the Raspberry Pi 3 B+ and then
there's one for this little chip over
here I don't know if that's the math
coprocessor - I'm not sure what that is
but it's cute and this will keep it cool
because it does get hot real simple
there's stickers you don't need any
frosting or anything like that
yep just push down on it a little bit
give it a little bit of pressure and now
we are ready to install it in our new
retro case and this ladies and gentlemen
is just the box they went all out and I
I would pay somebody I would ask them
how can I send you money just to buy
that box and inside the box is is really
what it's all about folks and we talked
about mini game systems like the mini
and like the SNES mini and look at this
a Nintendo Entertainment System
miniaturized it's got USB and Ethernet
there it's got HDMI port on the back the
SD card and there incidentally on the
bottom here where there normally was the
GPIO or the connection is a little
storage case they even got that detail
to put your SD cards in it's got two USB
ports on the front and a working power
button that operates just like the
original NES like it holds in it's not
like just a momentary switch it stays in
it came with a fan as well the
screwdriver some screws and just a quick
little instruction set look at that if
we need to okay so we're gonna actually
put this together for you tonight so
let's let's get started
cool I guess the fan is just gonna
offset draw some of the heat out of
there and there's some screws to mount
that to the case so what I like about
this if you notice the USB ports on the
front and everything and they it
actually has circuitry like it's not
your typical Raspberry Pi case that you
just stick the PI in and then plug
everything into the PI it has these
connectors that plug into the PI and
then it has its own headers that make it
so that you're not restricted to the
form factor of the pie itself so with my
Raspberry Pi 3 B+ I'm just going to
insert that with the HDMI at the back
but first we'll connect in Ethernet and
that will make live the Ethernet port on
the front of the what's called an S PI
case plus so this is the next generation
of the nest PI case and this one is
slightly larger than the original with
better cooling and a little bit more
airflow and certainly less cramped and I
think it looks more legitimately like a
real Nintendo Entertainment System than
the original case so it just kind of
goes in there just line up the headers
at the back because it is going to
you're gonna plug your HDMI directly
into the PI and then we've just got a
little pack of screws most of those six
of those are for the case itself because
this is a case that we're gonna assemble
and leave assembled it's not something
you're going to be swapping your board
in and out of but then there are two
screws to actually mount the Raspberry
Pi board to this case now keep in mind
this is compatible with B model boards
so you're looking at the Raspberry Pi
two Raspberry Pi three Raspberry Pi
three model B+
so you can you can mount other system
boards in here as well and presumably
future-ready as as well as long as the
form factor on the new raspberry PI's
stay the same so with these two screws
it's just going to mount that in C and I
have to make interesting Sascha we're
putting in two screws so you're doing a
great job thanks
tiny tiny screws yeah look at how tiny
they are they're tinier than a pie
everything on the pie is so cute oh this
is just the cutest no it's nice and snug
it feels real snug there you go
now this header here is gonna give you
the fan so we just plug that it make
sure you put it in the right way the the
pins are on the outside of the Raspberry
Pi and that enables the header on the
top there and gives it power for the fan
as well as whatever other power is
needed now there's no designator here
which way the fan is blowing I know from
experience that usually the the sticker
side is where it's going to be blowing
out of so I'm gonna put that down so
that we're drawing the heat out of the
case we're not gonna be drawing air into
it we want to push the air out of it and
it just snaps in there and then there
are three screws that that just hold the
fan in place so it's not going to fall
out
some good TV right here folks riveting
look at that
look at the way I turned the screw and
and note the screwdriver was even
included so I didn't even have to buy
buy or find a tiny enough screwdriver
it's it's included so now you've got an
extra screwdriver for that's actually
very considerate yeah you know until you
end up with with 300 of these
screwdrivers you're happy that they
included it yeah now you can also fix
glasses I feel like I'm thinking that
this is gonna be a perfect size for
changing motors in my drone oh that's
perfect nice simple installation folks I
think if you give yourself ten minutes
time now we're not going to take that
much time tonight because I have the
power to accelerate the video a little
bit but ten minutes time is all you need
and then you're gonna be up and running
with your retro pie so I'm not sure
which way to to put this cable on to the
this is the fan header I'm not sure
which way it goes and there's no like
one way you can put it on either way I
don't see anything in the instructions
about the fan either it's only about the
case and the installation of the pie so
I could plug it in with the positive on
the left and you can always change the
polarity and that's going to change the
direction of the fan but actually the
the red
I'm just looking and there is a marking
that says the positive is on the right
my right so that should be the correct
way to put that fan in there okay so now
the next step is just to close it up and
I'm just I'm making sure that the cable
there is not gonna there's a quite a bit
of slack on that cable I don't want it
to obstruct the fan I don't want it to
get into the fan I guess I could put a
twist tie on that or something like that
but I think it looks like it's gonna
stay out of the way it's not gonna nudge
its way over to the fan so shouldn't be
a problem
and that should just snap right together
there we go doesn't that look awesome
oh my goodness I can't wait to show this
to my family because we grew up with
that look at the SD card slot on the
side - all right so now we've got those
six screws we've got to put in this is
where you know this is this is way too
much for you so I'm gonna speed this up
a little bit what was your first retro
gaming system Sasha growing up I played
well I played Atari games and then I had
I think I skipped right - Super Nintendo
really to be honest you went from Atari
2600 to a Super Nintendo yeah I had an
Atari 2600 and then when the NES came
out so the Atari 2600 was like when I
was born mm-hmm and then I got the
Nintendo Entertainment System when it
came out so there it is folks so this
really is a throwback for me
I'm so proud and excited about this just
this case that's gonna sit under our TV
in full sight
it's got HDMI on the back you'll notice
that the header for the power has been
offset using their built-in header and
it looks astonishing it is sharp it is
so cool the ultimate retropie retropie
case and there it is are we ready to
fire this out yes we are all right it
feels good I you know people are gonna
ask like is it flimsy and cheap no it
feels like substantial it feels real
solid it is solid and you feel that
button yeah it's click click click click
yeah momentary so it's just like the
original and I guess you know folks are
wondering about the SD card slot over
here so there it is I've already put in
our retropie SD slot card and it just it
goes in and out nice and easy it's not
gonna fall out there you go there we go
ok so let's fire it up sash all right
here we go now I can plug in power
because remember it has a power poor
power button on the front it's not going
to turn on until I hit that button
I'm gonna go HDMI output so it supports
HDMI but it does have access to the the
AV port as well so if you want you can
use one of these cables right and plug
that in here and then you've got RCA
output for an old-style TV right or if
you're real retro want to go completely
retro absolutely okay and then I
mentioned a little bit earlier that I'm
using an Xbox controller so I do need to
use an Xbox receiver because it's not
bluetooth if we wanted to we could use
Sony Playstation three remote switch our
Bluetooth and then I would not need a
receiver and I could play it just like
that so no no extra wires coming out of
the front I think that would be cool so
I'm gonna get myself some PlayStation
controllers but it does have two USB
ports on the front two and then another
two under here so but you see the ones
there you can plug those that you can
get USB retro NES controllers that look
exactly like the originals but their USB
anyway that is that's the next that's if
you're completely obsessed with retro
okay so I'm gonna plug in my receiver
here and I'm just gonna push the power
button there it goes and just so you
know she's a Putin and I can feel that
there is wind coming out of the top of
the retropie so you went in the right
direction so I did go in the right
direction and the correct polarity there
it is
and ladies and gentlemen retropie is
booting on our Raspberry Pi 3 model D
plus in an NES PI case plus case I'm
just gonna leave this running all the
time connect it to my TV what it just
reminds me so much I just already
player1 the movie yes and in the mood I
don't know if you've seen the movie yet
no I have not I feel like you should
okay
but in it the creator of the Oasis which
is the virtual reality alternate
universe that everybody lives in and
plays in but the creator of it was very
obsessed with retro games oh yeah so all
of the little Easter eggs and everything
in the Acura it's all
oh so there you go you ready to jump in
if yes ready player one yeah okay so no
game pads detected so on my xbox
controller I just holding the power
button just like I was connecting to an
Xbox and it will and then I press a and
there I am so welcome to version 4.4 of
retro pie so we've got Atari 2600 Atari
2070 eight hundred links mega drive
which is the plate the oh now I'm why do
they name them differently what do we
call it the Genesis Genesis Genesis here
in the western world that's the one that
we we had a Genesis growing up as well
Nintendo 64 Nintendo Entertainment
System
I feel honor bound being that we are
running in an NES kit to click on words
I support this decision do you know
again
I played NES with my grandma and you'll
notice see how it says unknown at the
right that's because this is a fresh
install and I have not synced all the
artwork yet now it will go out onto the
internet and get all the graphics the
covers the reviews the description of
every game but we have not yet done that
you can do that should we like to skip
down to like Super Mario Bros I believe
so yes all right
oh and the chat room seems to agree
Super Mario says tollbooth yeah okay
I'll get there I'll get there amazing
okay Oh what did I do
I've clicked right sorry I jumped into
PlayStation Nintendo Entertainment
super super mario bros okay now you'll
notice it says two twice cuz I think I
selected the wrong artwork oh one of
these is Super Mario Bros one and one of
them is Super Mario Bros 2 do you think
the first one is right let's try it yeah
okay don't press anything here folks
oh I got it I got it okay and it's
widescreen it is so cool oh my goodness
did it didn't do now I don't think I
have I don't think I have audio piping
out from the retropie right now but
there you have it
Oh see my phone ring oh yeah Mario
Brothers yeah
so I am literally right now playing
Super Mario Bros on an Xbox controller
on mini nes over here now if I press
Start and select at the same time that
gets me back to the main menu right okay
so now I can go I can go back with B and
now I can scroll over to other systems
and see what I want to do so we had
talked about the Nintendo 64 being poor
performance on retropie in the past yeah
mine Mario Kart was like good good good
good good good not worth it couldn't do
it and I think Mario Kart is probably a
really good test everybody wants to play
Mario Kart every day all the time so
let's let's go there it's fine now just
for the record retropie is an operating
system for your retro gaming system
raspberry pi it does not come with any
games okay so the games you you have to
find them you might find abandoned ware
which is you know software that's so old
that presumably it's free yeah
they don't sell it anymore yeah
companies companies are starting to do
this where they're bringing back out
retro games so that they can rebirth the
copyrights on those games
oh and so it's a little bit ah so do it
now so just keep that in mind so you are
not gonna see all these games on there
out of the box it's gonna be empty
you'll need to get those yourself where
am I headed
yeah Mario Kart yes oh no I need to go
out yeah I'm going the wrong way here I
skipped over it while I was talking okay
Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario Mario Kart
64 okay this is literally a moment of
truth
we've tried running this before and it
was so stuttery that you could not play
it right let's see how smooth you are
let's see how smooth we are again we
don't push anything during this because
that's gonna customize your controls
which I don't want to I want to leave
everything like as defaults I've done
that have you accidentally and then got
stuck and had to restart it I don't even
understand okay that screen did not fly
like that it looks so good oh and like
I'm pushing the start button on my
controller I wish I had a second game
controller here for you Sasha but what
I'll do is I'll start the game and let
you drive I feel like that's been a bad
idea have you seen me drive this is this
doesn't end well ever okay you start
okay 150cc
okay here we go
Luigi do we want mushroom cup flower Cup
star Cup or special Cup special Cup yeah
oh oh and I think I could have I could
have actually chosen a track underneath
it's been a long time Sasha the
performance so far is out of this world
like I'm hard-pressed to think I'm not
playing on a Nintendo 64 let's see how
it performs in game oh oh it's not leg
Yahweh okay so Robbie sucks bye
I'd say this actually plays as well as I
sweat oh do you yeah and this place as
well as yours I think South $400.00
switch it just ruffle my pack just
rumbled it has haptic feedback no way
that's cool
sorry I got a little excited there I did
not realize it even had that how do I
get out of here
oh no I am stuck forever I got excited
and I crashed into a wall uh-oh
come on Robbie you're an eighth-place
come on man how do I back up is there a
reverse no you can reverse the camera
yeah oh come on no it can't go down like
that what we can my it's yeah we'll just
we'll speed it up for you
yeah the performance is great they're
gonna be just matching into that wall
yeah I'm serious how do I backup Sasha
oh oh thank you did you buy pressed why
okay I'm on it
remember I'm on an Xbox controller and
I'm terrible but look at that
performance folks I love that that is
exquisite I'm gonna jump to a larger
screen for you folks at home I'm gonna
give that to you I don't know that
that's the best choice okay okay I found
B B is to like make it go okay
controller is your left analog okay
remember everyone I ride a bike I don't
drive a car 150cc little Mario Kart so
far I haven't seen any lag
chat room what do you think so far oh
yeah we got paperboy come on all the
classics oh I'm in the wrong eyes you're
going the wrong way sighs okay okay it's
cuz okay I still I'm goin the wrong way
I thought I did reverse what's happening
okay I know we have to go to the news
room soon I would rather just play this
you know this could be the show folks ah
there we go
Oh see it's not all me I'm not I'm not
it's it's difficult it's challenging
because we haven't played in so long
folks head on over the cap five dot TV
/pi get your gear and then hook yourself
up with retropie 4.4 and I'm
flabbergasted i anytime we do a feature
like this on the show it's like how is
it going to perform is it gonna is this
gonna be impressive or is it gonna be
disappointing or is it gonna crash
what's the opposite of a flop this is
the opposite is like the ultimate Oh
amazing like this is going to be the
best gift you buy whomever you love
Sasha my kids are going to adore this
see and this sitting on under the TV
like when I have family over and we all
grew up with the Nintendo Entertainment
System that's amazing and it's not
overly expensive either I mean we're so
cost you know raspberry pie kit all the
all the peripherals SD card power cable
the board itself the heat sinks you're
looking about a hundred dollars Canadian
70 $79 us kind of idea and in this case
is like 25 bucks Canadian so that's like
four dollars u.s. it's not a huge
investment but as you can see we can
load it up chock full of games and it is
still a Raspberry Pi so keep that in
mind because you can install other
things on it you can pack it as a full
computer if you just want the retro look
and you want to use a wireless keyboard
and mouse and turn it into your home
theater PC
or use it as a computer you can do that
that would just throw everybody off that
you actually would be awesome
that is the retro pie gaming system
version 4.4 from cat5 TV slash pie
[Applause]
