hello everyone and welcome to new
everyday
my name is Kari and my name is Jen and
on stay show we are in part three of
come on in
you're all welcome this is new every day
with Jen wagger
and Harry Webb
[Music]
thanks for tuning in again to another
episode of new every day
so glad that you've tuned in and we're
so glad to keep fun with this
conversation Jen about Peter sees me in
Acts chapter 10 and Cornelius the Roman
the leader of the Italian regiment
I know sent for Peter because he saw a
vision Peter saw a vision of all these
animals coming down on the sheep from
heaven and God saying go ahead get up
and eat I want you to Peter's like no
I'm not gonna touch anything unclean
that's crazy yeah then the Holy Spirit
says these guys are coming I want you to
go with them I'd sent them but he
doesn't give him the rest of the story
he's not he doesn't say Peter this is
the moment that I am going to allow the
Gentiles or like non-jewish people like
me and me and you yeah wouldn't that be
a shocker if you told me you were Jewish
shocker to me to be a shocker that this
was the turning point to welcome the
Gentiles into this new Kingdom this
gospel yes and it you know it is
interesting when you think about
heritage because I am I have native
Canadian and yeah yeah native and
french-canadian and we English on my
mom's side and on my dad's side I have
some Dutch German and some English and
oh yeah so it's all mixture in there but
as far as I know there is no Jewish
ancestry in my lines
I don't think me though all the way back
to Eve because it says Eve is the mother
of all nations
so we're sisters for sure right but
other than that no not a part of the set
apart nation of yeah
Israel me neither I got some Welsh Irish
French Canadian that's and you know
what's very interesting is as you think
about our backgrounds you know French
Canadian or French Canadian and native
or Aboriginal
and English all those word at one time
yeah and now you know they're all part
of who I am and so obviously some place
at some point time they got over their
issues and got together there you go
and it's just very interesting how what
it actually takes to overcome
differences or to overcome past hurts
and I know in our nation right now we're
really looking at Aboriginal heritage
and how the English and French came in
and took that away and how there needs
to be healing taking place and yeah and
when we were in in the States we drove
through parts of the country where the
underground rare railroad was very
strong and and that was part of getting
the the slaves out of the south north to
Canada where it's safe and they are
still in the states going through
reconciliation processes of of okay how
do we get along how do we honor one
another how do we make sure that we
treat everybody the same way and give
everybody the same opportunities and
it's hard like this it goes right back
you know even to Cain and Abel where
Cain and Abel did something that please
Lord and they in Canaan and he got all
uppity about it and and then killed his
brother like judgment with wherever
there's sin it can come in and it
changes the way that we look at people
because of our own selfishness on the
inside and so that's where racism
happens that's where racism happens and
that's you know especially here we are
at Peter he's coming to a Cornelius's
houses we're gonna pick up the story and
you have to remember all of this is
going on like in his mind the Romans
have have come into our land have taken
over it and are trying to you know to
subdue us and they killed Jesus and so
all this is going on and yet this is
where God is leading him yeah and it's
interesting because they identify that
okay so the people sent from Cornelius
Talent Peter who current Cornelius is
as there's a couple red flags of why he
shouldn't go oh yes only reason to go
was the fact that God said to go because
they had in verse 22 they said we were
sent by Cornelius a Roman officer yep
he is a devout and god-fearing man well
respected by all the Jews a holy angel
instructed him to summon you to his
house so that we can hear your message
oh yeah and that's where like love
covers over a multitude of sins Oh like
this where judgment could come in there
and say I'm not gonna go because you're
a Roman I'm not gonna go because you're
a Gentile today I mater did not matter
I'm going because God has called me to
go because he could have said maybe this
is a trap right and that's maybe why God
gave him the heads-up and it's okay to
go that's okay to go true cuz he gave
him the vision and then he said they're
gonna come you need to go and then they
confirm right and so maybe that Paul or
Peter needed to hear that so he actually
went yeah so and I'm gonna pick up from
verse 24 yes
sorry 23 so Peter invited the men to
stay for the night the next day he went
with them accompanied by some other
brothers from Joppa so now they're on
their way
verse 24 they arrived in Caesarea the
following day Cornelius was waiting for
them and had called together his
relatives and close friends as Peter
entered his home Cornelius fell at his
feet and worshiped him but Peter pulled
him up and said stand up
I'm a human being just like you so they
talked together and went inside where
many others were assembled Peter told
them you know it is against our laws for
a Jewish man to enter a Gentile home
like this or to associate with you but
God has shown me that I should no longer
think of anyone as impure or unclean so
I came without objection as soon as I
was sent for now tell me why you have
sent for me Cornelius replied four days
ago I was praying in my house about the
same time 3 o'clock in the afternoon
suddenly a man and dazzling clothes was
standing in front of me he told me
Cornelius your prayer has been heard and
your gifts to the poor have been notice
by God now send messengers to Joppa and
summon a man named Simon Peter he is
staying in the home of Simon a Tanner
who lives near the seashore so I sent
for you at once and it was good of you
to come now we're all here waiting
before God to hear the message the Lord
has given you what was everybody
thinking as they're waiting I Sarah like
who is this guy coming who is this guy
coming enough so that Cornelius bowed
down to worship him
right and Peter's like no no no no no
stand up on I'm a man and and he said
but Peter made himself stand up I'm only
a man myself
like only like we were men equal we're
equal and and what were they thinking of
a Jewish man coming to their house
because here's like he is a well-to-do
Roman effete like he's a Centurion
he's well-to-do and yet this Jewish man
is coming to tell him something a
fisherman like not exactly yeah the
highest-ranking person no yeah and yet
there he is and there he is looking at
each other and it's like okay same spot
what's this good news what is this guy
really love that Cornelius actually
gathered his family and friends because
he realized the importance of this
message because it was going to be
coming from God yes
he'd seen this vision and knew that it
was going to be life-changing and he
wanted to share that right away with his
family he wanted them to have it
firsthand from Peter oh I just love that
that's cool it makes me think like okay
this is now I have this gospel in my own
heart Holy Spirit lives in me to
influence and to speak and like is that
one of the most exciting things that I
share with people like am i super
excited to share it all the time like I
want to be like that
you know all right so with that we will
be right back after these messages
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching
hey everyone welcome back you're still
watching new every day
my name is still carry on her name is
still Jen there we are and hey we still
have some great partners who are working
with us to make this show possible go to
new everyday TV click our partners tab
and you can see all the organizations
and businesses who help us keep going
and talking about such great things I
know we're just so exciting that aren't
our ideas I know cuz this really no I
know
so here we go we're jumping right back
into the great things so we talked about
how Peter and Cornelius have met and
they're talking Peters like well why am
I here and Cornell's like I had a dream
and so here you are to tell me about the
dream so and as Carrie said Peters like
has the Holy Spirit inside of him and he
has something to share yeah so first 30
for sure and Peter began to speak I now
realize how true it is that God does not
show favoritism but accepts men from
every nation who fear Him and do what is
right you know the message God sent to
the people of Israel telling the good
news of peace through Jesus Christ who
is Lord of all you know what has
happened throughout Judea beginning in
Galilee after the baptism that John
preached how God anointed Jesus of
Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and power
and how he went through doing good and
healing all who were under the power of
the devil because God was with him we
are witnesses of everything he did in
the country of the Jews and in Jerusalem
they killed him by hanging him on a tree
but God raised him
the dead on the third day and caused him
to be seen he was not seen by all the
people but by witnesses whom God has
already had already chosen by us who ate
and drank with him after he rose from
the dead he commanded us to preach to
the people and to testify that he is the
one whom God appointed as judge of the
living and the dead all the prophets
testify to him testify about him that
everyone who believes in Him receives
forgiveness of sins through his name
while Peter was still speaking these
words the Holy Spirit came on all who
heard the message the circumcised
believers who had come with Peter were
astonished that the gift of the Holy
Spirit had been poured out even on the
Gentiles for they heard them speaking in
tongues and praising God then Peter said
can anyone keep these people from being
baptized with water then they received
the Holy Spirit just as we have so he
ordered that they be baptized in the
name of Jesus Christ then they asked
Peters stay with them for a few days
there is so much packed into that I know
I think what like stirs my heart up the
mouse Jenn is just this clear
presentation of the gospel that Peter
just lays out for all the people and God
does the rest of the work yes like so
much I'm thinking about Oh like there's
this stress and pressure to like in our
the presentation of the gospel and that
we have to help people get to a certain
point where they're going to be ready
but God works the soil and I've just
seen that in like a couple of amazing
instances recently like in my life with
friends who like I didn't even really
know they were interested in talking
about God but then they've approached me
and said like I've been thinking about
these things or I have these questions
about life that it was been obvious that
God has been working in their lives
beforehand to bring them to the point to
receive this gospel and our job is to
share the gospel and live it out because
God does the work of people's lives and
he brings the increase yes like a mess
that's where
Peter's job was just to tell the truth
the truth that Jesus came told people
about God was crucified died was bit
died and buried rose again and then told
them to tell others and and I like he
says this is the message of good news
for the people of Israel that there is
peace with God through Jesus Christ who
is Lord of all mm-hmm and you know what
Galilee after John began preaching the
message of baptism so like John the
Baptist came and he was talking about
repentance and turning to God mm-hmm and
you know that God anointed Jesus of
Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with
power when he was baptized the the Holy
Spirit felt like a dove on Jesus Jesus
went around doing good works and healing
all those who were pressed by the devil
for God was with him
this this gospel about liberation from
something so much more oppressive than
yes the Roman influence yes this is
about liberation from sin and death yes
to bring us freedom to live in obedience
to God here on earth and then to
experience eternal life with him and
what blew Peters mind was that God was
now offering that to the Gentiles hey
that's really quite funny what do you
think about it because all of the when
you read the prophets of the Old
Testament God is proclaiming judgment on
the other nations because they don't
serve Him so he's actually wanting them
to come to him like there's always this
is this is why I love the heart of God
and sometimes people just don't pick it
up but even from very beginning like
they said in Sodom and Gomorrah even if
there's five people like his heart was
to save right or even if there's ten
people his heart was to save his heart
is always to save his heart is always to
save but I think sometimes we can be
like well he's never done it like that
before I've never seen it like that
before he said this and and
but God's heart at the end of the day is
too safe he wants that none should
perish but all should come to a
knowledge of Jesus grace yes
oh and like all the way even to
Revelation you know why does he send the
plagues well part of it is punishment
but part the other part is that he would
draw people to himself like this is
going to happen unless you repent and
they're like we're not going to repent
and he's like okay here's another plague
and it's like will you repent no we're
not going to repent and the ultimate
good would be for them to turn to him
yes that is ultimately what God's heart
is because of who he is like you said to
redeem be redeemed from sin and death so
you don't have to live in in the
darkness of life yes and so you know
when Peter is speaking these words the
Holy Spirit came on all who heard the
message because of their heart they were
like yes that's what we want yeah and so
the Holy Spirit comes to all those who
earnestly seek God yeah and that's what
Blue Peter away yeah I was just like
whoa God's accepting these people yeah
like just so cool it's yeah it is it's
so amazing and Peter also says that
listen I was one who eat and drink with
him mm-hmm and we were those who ate and
drank with him after he rose from the
dead this is like there's weight to what
I'm saying because I've seen the living
Jesus yes he was a witness I've
experienced him and and I love what he
says here too he is the one all the
prophets testified about yes
so he's like in the Old Testament what
we Jews believe and the you guys have
access to Jesus is the one saying that
everyone who believes in Him will have
their sins forgiven through his name yes
everyone and God is faithful and just
that we if we confess our sins he he
will forgive us and cleanse us from all
unrighteousness through Christ because
what is what he's done on the cross
every person and so I think you know as
we close up things today
it really is Lord search my heart where
I have a judgment against someone
whether they're of the same people group
as yourself or of the different people
group and just you have a judgment
against time like maybe you don't talk
to them because you can't understand
what they're saying or they
you know well you know what we talked
about a few weeks ago how we just want
to paint certain people groups with
certain traits and so we just we pulled
back to them rather than going forward
and what is God saying and the fact is
God wants all people all people and so
if you're a believer in Christ today we
encourage you to search your own heart
and say where do I have judgments
against other people groups where have I
made comments against other people
groups have they hurt me do I need to
forgive them realizing God wants God
wants to be at peace with all men so
that means he wants us to be a peace of
all men - and I would have challenged
you to think of that person who maybe is
super different from you mm-hmm and pray
specifically for them that God will talk
to them first yes and warm their heart
to receive the gospel yes
so let's pray Jen all right all right
father thank you so much for the good
news of the gospel and that you yourself
Cain the person of Jesus Christ to die
for us to make a way that we could have
this living relationship with you and be
freed from sin and death to have your
image restored in us so that we can go
forth and live like you lived and I just
pray for our our viewers and our
listeners who are struggling maybe with
what this means to them even as they
hear these words they're perplexed like
Peter was well what does this even mean
the Holy Spirit would you bring
revelation and help them understand
mm-hmm that their knowledge would abound
more and more that their love would
abound more and more knowledge and depth
of insight
yes we pray this in Jesus name Amen amen
thank you so much for tuning in and
we're just going to wrap this up next
week or who knows there might be more
just it's so rich and deep so stay tuned
and we'll see you next week see you then
bye-bye catch a new episode of new every
day every Friday morning and new every
day
dot TV we're also on Kody Roku flex
YouTube and Facebook or if you're in
Southern California tune in every Sunday
morning at 6:30 Pacific on channel 33
television for the high desert
