welcome to episode number 312 of
category 5 technology TV it's Tuesday
the tenth of September 2013 nice to see
I'm Robbie Ferguson and I'm Erica on man
it has it been a while since I've been
here it's been a while eh yeah but a
coming up in the newsroom tonight
twitter is being used by a special
program to determine the general mood of
the entire countries by simply following
its citizens in spying on what they say
mmm yahoo as sick of the American
government tour ding their desire to
tell the public when US national
security agencies demand confidential
user data so they're taking it to court
think you've got privacy with that fancy
secure web cam you got well think again
the FTC is cracking down on popular
camera manufacturers whose video feeds
can be viewed by anyone and anywhere
Jenks and a man was able to rescue her
six-year-old son after a thief drove off
with this car containing both the boy in
an iphone stick around those stories are
coming up thanks Erica tonight we were
meant to talk about a new VMware
partnership it's all about the vCloud
you're going to want to check that out
we are postponing that interview until
early October so don't miss that for
tonight we are going to what we've got a
huge response based on last week's show
about the mk6 02 from rikomagic we're
going to be answering your questions
with regards to that device don't go
anywhere we'll be right back
this is category 5 technology TV
at eco alkalines we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference Eco alkalines calm this is
category 5 technology TV so good to have
you here with us this week nice to see
you Erica yes it's good to see been a
while how school then now you finish
school this was the story she finished
school and then started back up again so
as a glutton for punishment how's it
been um good i had a month off which was
nice not so bad most university students
get four months off I had a month but
that's okay you work I got done all the
extra learning all that good know
summers everyone's partying I'm learning
oh speaking of partying I'm now 19 I
don't know how she made that connection
i was gonna say i really like clowns
well 19 hey congratulations on that
front yes um i have been it's been
really great honestly it's nice if we're
in canada by them yeah in canada 19 is
legal drinking age 18 you can go to
montreal quebec meet ya look forward to
your 19th birthday then well it was good
and nothing against quebec and montreal
yeah
you know you're 18 they give you a year
start very good okay hey check out our
mobile website m dot cat5 not TV all you
have to do scan that code or visit that
website with your mobile device you'll
be able to watch live you'll be able to
tune in to the audio of the broadcast
and and actually watch past episodes
right there at em cat5 TV as well
speaking of kind of being able to get
around I want to take a look at our map
sorry you were just about to say
something I and up to but look at this I
think this is so cool folks this is
where you guys and gals are watching
from tonight Wow and a lot of these
places you know I don't even necessarily
recognize I saw Luxembourg there's
Moscow well and surrounding cities and
and watching oh yeah New York so thank
you to everyone who's watching from all
around the world tonight and throughout
the week on demand as well category five
dot TV it's always just wonderful to
have you here please pop us an email
live at category 5 TV if you like to say
hi and if you'd like to see where
everybody's watching from go to map dot
cat five dot TV and category five is a
member of the tech podcast if it's tech
it's here and is an international
association of internet broadcasters all
right well we've got your viewer
questions in tonight and we are
definitely going to tackle those I've
got a lot that you know I want to I want
to look at tonight before we get into
the show I just want to let you know if
you don't know it already this is for
you Star Trek fans out there all yet
Trekkies and trekkers there is a new
pilot going forth using IndieGoGo to
fund the project and what's so exciting
about this is that it has a lot of
people that we actually know and love
tim russ for example is the director of
the pilot so tim russ of course being
Tuvok from Star Trek Voyager we've got
people like the the actor who played
Harry Kim
and all that go to cat five dot TV /
Star Trek it's going to take you to the
IndieGoGo profile for this and the
reason that I want to direct you to this
notice that there are only three days
left to this and you see that there is
just a wealth of information about this
upcoming series there's tim russ garrett
wang who played Harry Kim Robert Picardo
who played the doctor the holographic
doctor he's playing doctor Zimmerman and
a bunch of other familiar faces Richard
heard who played Tom Paris's dad he's
playing Admiral Paris again and so it's
it's legit like this is the real thing
when it comes to you know we all dream
of a new Star Trek series and so what
they're actually doing is they're
they're doing a pilot they're going to
pitch it to the studio and they're going
to hope for the best so this is your
chance to help fund that they're going
to be going forward anyway because they
met their minimum goal but as they raise
more and more funds they're going to be
throwing things out like being able to
do better make up being able to do
better SATs being able to do more with
what money they've been able to raise so
and you know you can donate to that and
you'll be able to pick up a free copy
and HD of the video once it's out so
yeah cat five dot TV / Star Trek for
that welcome to our registered viewers I
don't know if you want to tackle the
list of people who are joining us who
are new on our website this week
category five dot TV uh we got root
lenox I like that hey I'm uh Carl WC
Gary eight five seven three nine hello
we got the big one we got droid one Mike
69 de and pear tree peridot tree nice to
have you all joining us if you'd like to
become a registered viewer on our
website allegory live be the place to go
you can register right there thank you
also to our viewers who have sent in
donations this week you know that we got
hit by lightning here at the studio last
Monday just just I mean it was over the
tree line but it was
you know it was obvious that we got hit
and at fried a couple of ups's and our
cable modem cable modem was a rental so
they replaced at no problem the UPS is
we had to replace with ones that we had
in stock but we had to put new batteries
in it so we've done that all in all
after tax and everything came to 155
bucks so that was awesome and I
appreciate your support in being able to
do that and now we're raising funds as
you know we're back to raising funds for
the new garage studio really exciting
things on the horizon such as chroma key
which is green screening so that you'll
be able to see us in new environments
and you know even though we have a small
space to work with will have a virtual
environment that we can interact with so
we're very very excited about what's to
come and your donations are largely
what's helping us to be able to do that
you can go to cat five dot TV /c to
support us in that and also if you'd
like to have me sign in to your computer
with teamviewer i can actually remote
into your computer tonight if you like
and teamviewer allows us to take control
and actually help you with some of the
issues that you may be experiencing with
your linux or windows computer so if
that's you all you have to do is private
message me in the chat room its category
5 on freenode or feel free to also send
in your questions by telephone it's 25
45 cat5 TV you can give us a quick call
so we were looking at this really cool
device from rikomagic the MK 602 last
week and this device is a full 1080p
video kind of converter for your dumb TV
as I would call it and it turned out
into it turns it into a smart TV so not
only that but it's also got a built-in
webcam for skype video conferencing so
you can actually chat with people live
through the internet through skype video
and it's got all those kinds of things
we looked at that last week if you're
interested in that episode number 311 is
the episode to check out but our
response to that device and the review
of that device has been just
astronomical this week we've got so many
emails so many comments and we really
appreciate you interacting with us and
the questions you know just keep flowing
and I'm here to answer your questions
to be very appropriate to do it you know
the following week so that you know
those questions can be answered so first
and foremost device costs about $95
regular price you can get it online
sometimes you can find it cheaper but
that's the base price is about 95 bucks
very inexpensive it does not come with a
controller I'm not necessarily reading
all of your questions but I'm going to
answer as many of the questions that I
can it doesn't include a controller
however it works with your wiimote you
can actually use a wii remote in order
to control it but if you don't have a
wii you can also use just a plug in
mouse and keyboard you can use a
wireless mouse and keyboard is kind of
ideal you can purchase something like
the device which i showed you last week
which is the this is the MK 7022 i
believe yes MK 7022 from rikomagic which
is the full universal remote with the
qwerty keyboard on the back and it's an
air mouse it's got a skype speaker and
microphone so that when you're sitting
on the couch you can just chat like this
and see them up on the screen this is
the ideal controller from rikomagic the
MK 7022 but that one you know it costs I
think it's around eighty dollars or so
it's not you know a game not a hugely
expensive thing considering it's
Bluetooth and it will work with any
device this will even work with your
computer if you wanted to use it to
control a computer so it's pretty
awesome but you don't have to go there
web just a simple mouse keyboard will
get you there and the Wemo so next
questions okay it's dual core we tried
to establish that last week dual core
processor with 8 gigabytes of RAM or
flash included it's Android 4.1 it has
bluetooth it has Wi-Fi it has ethernet
it has hdmi output as well as audio
video output so that you can plug it
into an old TV and make your old CRT TV
a smart TV which is astounding and it
does have full 1080p output that's what
they claim
but that brings us to our first question
I don't know if you'd like to read this
Erica but pear tree writes us yeah I was
just looking at this to me just watched
you your review on the new MK 602 device
and to be honest I don't know much about
however showing mode lines doesn't prove
anything have you actually tried
switching to 1920 and at 1080 did it
work so well let's here's the I sense I
sense a challenge I love the tone of
your your message there it's a challenge
yes showing mode lines doesn't prove
anything and you're right i mean when i
was doing the demonstration last week I
just kind of brought up you know yeah
you see that it can do 1920 x 1080 so I
said okay well I'll plug it back in
everything still hooked up so here we go
we're going to fire this thing up and
will actually take a look at this
tonight for you and we're going to
switch the resolution now when you plug
in a device like this to your TV
typically what do you see you see a
little little box over the top left-hand
side you know 1280 by 720 progressive
scan 1920 x 1080 and that's how you can
tell that's a real easy way now we don't
have a TV that i can plug it into and
show you that will do that what we do
have is Wirecast tell a stream Wirecast
and on a ver media capture card we we've
got HDMI output going directly into that
rikomagic mk802 into the a ver media
capture card so we can still emulate
that exact effect by changing the
resolution so as that boots up here we
go okay so all that I need to do I'm
going to demonstrate this for we're
going to go up into the applications
here go into settings and we want to
change the screen resolutions so another
display it's under screen and you'll see
the hdmi mode so what I'm going to show
you here we're actually capturing this
to telestream Wirecast at 1280 by 720
what we're broadcasting in right now so
what we want to do is we want to bump
that up to 1920 x 1080 so we're gonna go
hdmi mode and let's try at 50 and you'll
see that I'm now I've lost the screen
because I'm capturing at 12 1280 by 720
so if i increase that now to the full
resolution that I that it's supposedly
giving me 1920 x 1080 you see the
captures back and it's working perfectly
at that resolution so we are actually
getting through 1080p will go up to 60
and there we go still have control
everything's working great and that's at
full 1920 x 1080 that's not squished or
anything so if i change the resolution
to a resolution other than 1080p you'll
see that it doesn't bring in the input
at all there's 1280 x 720 which i was
originally using and it worked and there
as you see it's required that it
actually works so 1080 p is for real
because the impression that i got from
your email was that we were actually you
suspected that it wasn't true well it is
and i hope that we've proved that for
you tonight so ok next question that we
received about that and i hope that with
the mic difficulties there that you were
able to make out what I said but I hope
that the demonstration and so there
there's my distraction there our next
switch comes from at Melendez and they
say Robbie Ferguson just watched episode
number 311 question does the MK 60 to
support playback of h.264 encoded mp4 s
using oh I'm you is basically saying i'm
using raspa BMC for it right now so i'll
demonstrate that first we're just going
to nip these mic issues in the bud can I
just get access to your friend here
there we go and just make sure that's
there ok hopefully you let us know chat
room okay if if we have any more issues
okay so the question does it support
h.264 mp4 s best way probably for me to
determine that
to use one of our mp4 files so I'm going
to bring up our website category 5 TV
and we'll go to the show RSS feeds and
subscriptions and we'll just grab
there's our h.264 feed click on that and
let's save last week's episode which is
a I know it's an h.264 file so i'll
throw that on to my desktop that's going
to take about one minute to download so
talk amongst yourselves one full minute
of needing to figure out while we
download 13 seconds it jumped look at
that sky rocketed no word of a lie nine
seconds how that happened very accurate
as far as its assumptions as to how long
it's going to take two one done okay so
now I've got a copy of that file on my
desktop there it is okay so best thing
for us to do is go into terminal and
we're going to go into my desktop and
I'm going to go media info and that file
mediainfo is a great tool for linux that
tells us all about the Codex and
everything about that file just so that
we can see that this is indeed what
we're looking for it is why UV h.264
file with AAC audio everything looks
good mpeg-4 and I actually encoded that
with I think now that says AVC I hope
that this is the right format I think it
is but let's just let's just determine
it by I'm going to transfer it over onto
my SD card here and plug that in and
this is really really easy I mean the SD
card adapter the SD port in the back
here just plug that right into there and
it's going to detect that no problem
still have an issues or we go nowhere
are a good pasa ok with that in its
crystal clear fect you can see my card
has been detected
and I'm just going to go into the video
player and we'll see that that there you
go that file is right there so click on
it welcome to episode number three
alluringly laboratory five technology TV
it's Tuesday the third of September 20
so there we go i mean that's that's that
file from our h.264 feet no issues there
coming off of an SD card we can access
it through the file browser to on your
network if you have a central storage
mechanism like an ass unit or something
you can use that to actually store your
videos download your RSS feeds to that
like a category 5 and any other podcast
podcast that you watch and you'll be
able to string them directly to the
device through Wi-Fi through ethernet
works pretty good so and i'll keep
testing and you know if you send in your
questions I'll keep testing and playing
around i'm i'm pretty sure that that
file format is what you're looking for
but if you have a specific file that you
want me to test with hey send it over
i'll do a media info on it and we can we
can test it on the rikomagic device for
you and tell you what what we find it's
as easy as that cool all right well hey
if you've got questions for us so i had
join us in the chat room you're erica is
watching the chat room and we're good to
go what's a see thanks Heather Heather
we appreciate you very very much alright
so get your questions into the chat room
category 5 on freenode and we've got
some questions that have come in so like
to maybe hit a couple of those before we
before we move along okay all right good
good we got so we got one um from boy
Roy w Nash hey right so for those with
older machines that may have problems
with flash video and they don't want to
fall back to an an older version of
flash then try this plugin for firefox
it converts flash video to html5 on the
fly without
noticeable leg any flash plugins must be
disabled first for the replacement plug
in to work that's interesting okay I'm
clicking the link here from your email
right youtube flash to html5 ok so it's
YouTube so to be clear it's not
converting now they've said it converts
youtube flash videos to html5 I doubt it
converts what what happens though is
that when I upload a video to YouTube
they automatically transcode everything
so there are html5 or mp4 files
available now based on the transcoding
process so maybe what they're doing is
they're replacing the flash player with
an html5 player which if you use a
browser that supports html5 that's going
to be the default anyways because that's
what you know it's it's going to push
toward web M that's what Google wants
you to use but that's kind of cool so if
you're using Firefox an older version
that doesn't support html5 out of the
box on YouTube then maybe that will just
I would think it would strip the code
and change it to a html5 thing so
anyways there you go addons mozilla org
search for YouTube flash to html5 and
we'll post a link in the show notes for
episode number 312 and this is category
5 technology TV thanks for tuning in
tonight questions feel free to pick up
the phone to 545 cat5 TV or pop us a
line in the chat room its category 5 on
freenode or just through our website
well we've got some I think some
interesting news stories that we did a
lot of privacy as well I think that's
kind of the theme the theme it is kind
of going that way I mean if it's not
about what's going on in Syria it's
going to be about the privacy issues and
the fact that the government in the US
has basically found ways around the
encryption on your cell phones and so
now everybody's talking about the fact
that oh the NSA is listening to your
phone calls it's all about security and
national security and personal security
and now and now i present you the new
top stories for the
5news so british scientists have
developed a computer program they say
can map the mood of the nation using
Twitter hmm named emotive it works by
accessing the emotional content of
postings on the social networking site
the team responsible for developing says
it can scan up to 22,000 tweets a second
and rate them for expressions of one of
eight human emotions they claim a motive
could help calm civil unrest and
identify early threats to public safety
hmm i wonder how accurate that could
possibly be because you think like as
you're telling the story I'm thinking
about you know sports games okay so it's
using Twitter to determine the mood of
the nation you know and so they're
watching for civil unrest and all of a
sudden there's this flood of this sucks
you made a bad call you're such an idiot
and this is going on all of a sudden in
thousands and thousands of people are
tweeting you know after the football
game or maybe after the referees what's
twitter gonna do exact contact the
referees a million people are mad at you
right now well they'll just be the
computer program might think that
they're about to erupt into civil unrest
well they're gonna riot you know
somewhere now they let them do it on the
internet yeah and then you gotta admit
that there are some that just tweet
nothing but nonsense yeah so how what
about those people who complain about
their life every day oh yes what about
you no you're not hitting your you don't
do that of course you don't life's good
yeah well hey that's it kinda it kind of
it's like a whole different spin on the
big brother-ish thing and and the onion
actually recently touched on this I
don't know if you watch The Onion but I
recommend that you check some of their
stuff out some of us not G rated by any
stretch but they recently touched on you
know the the the NSA and the this you
know CIA and FBI all actually own
Facebook and Twitter after years of
secretly monitoring the public we were
astounded so many people would willingly
publicize where they live their
religious and political views an
alphabetized list of all their friends
personal email addresses phone numbers
hundreds of photos of themselves and
even status updates about what they were
doing moment to moment it is truly a
dream come true for the CIA much of the
credit belongs to CIA agent Mark
Zuckerberg who runs the day-to-day
Facebook operation for the agency and so
is this whole spoof on how those are
actually monitoring services and so it's
funny that in the news then all of a
sudden yet they're actually able to take
all that information conglomerate it
together and generate some kind of
information about the nation itself kind
of interesting to me what's interesting
about this as well is that you know some
kind of computer programming deck tech
detecting human emotions yeah you know
and what could be eight emotions be a
like a good happiness have anger fear
fear that's craziness is that an emotion
crazy it's an emotion it's I'm feeling
craziness or my rage I feel age thing
goes under anger I don't know else could
there be sick sad did we get said yes um
how could there be anxiousness so the
computer knows of more emotions than we
do I mean we've actually started making
up emotions so hey that's that's kind of
crazy okay moving along looking at Yahoo
they are demanding reprimands no they
are actually taking the US National
Security Agency to the courts they are
requesting that they actually be allowed
to disclose when the US government
requests personal user information and
what it's all about the move comes a few
days after Yahoo published its first
transparency report detailing the
overall number of global government
requests for data US laws get this they
actually prohibit organizations from
providing a breakdown of these figures
yahoo said withholding such information
from the public breeds mistrust and
suspicion about the US government it's
not all about Google I mean we hear all
the time about how you know people are
outraged that Google picked up some
information while it was driving by your
house with the street view car and now
we're learning all these things and not
to get into conspiracy theories
whatsoever but that they're actually
silencing yahoo and yahoo wants to say
here's what the government has requested
and here's why and as a matter of being
transparent to their users so it's going
on where you know the government is
requesting this information private
information about users of services like
yahoo and they're not allowed to
disclose it mm-hmm-hmm we'll see what
happens there because they are actually
putting their foot down and saying
something has to change well that's good
because Facebook did nothing Facebook is
owned by the FBI aren't they and it's
like they did nothing and say you know
like it's a go so this person's doing
all of this but I like to get into their
private messages at the same time mm-hmm
there was a very private there was an
interesting video that was going around
and and became viral there for a little
while where they had kind of staged a
ten to look like a medium so like a
fortune teller kind of person and so
they brought people in and they and the
person would sit down and this fortune
teller would tell all about their
personal life and the people were
freaked out there like how do you know
this and it's like all of this very
personal stuff like I mean very personal
is being disclosed by this fortune
teller and so then as the curtain is
drawn back they actually draw back a
curtain they you see that there's a
group of kind of hacker people that are
actually using social media Facebook
Twitter and all of these kind of profile
connections and hacking through accounts
in order to get information that that
person had posted online that they
thought was private but meanwhile it's
absolutely wide open if you know how to
get access to it so a bit of an
eye-opener when you think about all the
private information that you're posting
on Facebook I see some people put
address
that's scary like numbers are even
pictures from your cell phone I mean
come on your cell phone has geolocation
so if you take a picture of your kid in
the park across the street and you post
it on Facebook all of a sudden people
who know how get the address of that
park that's scary stuff and it's real
that's legit stuff there enough scary
stuff do you have any good news no it's
more scary stuff what is going on
tonight well we'll see well a company
whose home cameras were hacked causing
privacy uh in privacy complications for
hundreds of people have been a bomb
abominus by the US Federal Trade
Commission the FTC scolded manufacturer
at trendnet for the weakness that meant
supposedly private video feeds were in
fact viewable by anyone online the
company is now barred from referring to
their cameras as a secure in marketing
material the move is the first such
crackdown by the FTC unconnected home
devices trendnet issued a software patch
to combat the problem but it was not an
automatic upgrade the FTC said the
company must now make more effort to
contract existing customers and in
instances when the crucial update has
been released that's kind of scary I
think about all those secure devices
from trendnet letter market it is like
baby monitors and things so you've got a
video baby monitor well then all of a
sudden hackers came out and said oh yeah
you can access the feed from that and
they started distributing these feeds
and it's like that's scary stuff so
hardwired is the way to go I guess
that's the the moral of the story for
tonight and in a story that is also kind
of
a little bit satin away more like
because you just want to smack this guy
a little bit but with a happy ending
glad to hear the kid is ok a father
whose SUV was stolen with his
five-year-old son inside used the Find
My iPhone feature to help police locate
the stolen vehicle and rescue the boy
the incident occurred in Houston Texas
where the father left his son in the car
while running into the store someone
took off with the vehicle they probably
didn't know that the kid was in the back
and after the father discovered that the
car and his son was missing he actually
tapped into the Find My iPhone app
because his iphone was left in the
vehicle fortunately he actually had his
iPad on him and so he was able to do it
fairly quickly and and was able to do
that police then relied on the
information to track the SUV and
arrested the carjacker and recovered the
boy without any kind of incidents the
father was definitely thinking on his
feet I think to tap into that technology
but I think also you just want to smack
him and say what do you think and don't
leave your kid in the car but cool the
technology has been able to do something
there's like some damn that's good quick
like that find my car appt good idea you
just need a GPS in your car yeah like on
Star OnStar where's my car my boys in it
we could do another movie of dude
where's my car but smart of the guy to
think do you know in that moment where I
would be freaking out I mean if that was
me I'd be I I don't know how I'd react I
mean you'd be just absolutely frightened
for your son but you know forget about
the car but then to realize that well oh
I've got my phone in the car here's an
idea I'm gonna pull out my iPad why
maybe it was an ipad mini I can't
imagine that the guy left his iphone
sitting on the passenger seat but then
took his ipad into the store i mean that
doesn't make any sense to me but hey
that's good hey check out the full
stories on our website news room
category five dot TV and when you're
there you'll get you'll have the links
to the full stories videos and
everything
it is there thanks to Roy w Nash for
submitting some stories this week and
unless you have a new story that you
think is worthy of an on-air mention
email newsroom at category 5 TV and for
the category 5 newsroom I'm Erica lon
and I'm Robbie and also on the last
story dot saying that in Europe there
are plans to put a gps gsm in every car
so the car can dial in case of accidents
but this allows everybody to track a car
as well yeah I guess so I but that's
that's kind of cool i guess but egg cars
are becoming more and more computers
anyways right so it makes sense that
they would have gps is built in like GPS
chips because hopefully they're gonna
become driverless right right so you
need to have that kind of directional
stuff so but you wouldn't be able to
steal a driverless car no I wouldn't
think hackers like meat packers
definitely could hecker stairs are worst
have a chip go into your car and you
know make it their car now I guess
hackers have it the future in their
hands of cars there's your quote for the
you guys I guess hackers have you know
the future in their hands Erica lalonde
make sure you tag it here we go alone
hey this is category 5 technology TV
thanks for joining us tonight it's
triple w category 5 TV my name is Robbie
Ferguson and I'm here to answer your
questions if you have any so send them
in get us in the chat room category 5 on
freenode or papas an email live at
category five dot TV so I know we've got
more questions there so you can get
those in queue I want to say greetings
to everybody who's watching us on
YouTube tonight make sure you comment
below and subscribe to our videos also
you know do all that stuff like this
video if you care to and and certainly
we love getting your comments and we
love having your subscriptions as well
our YouTube followership is growing we
weren't on YouTube when we first started
the show so you know over the past
little while while we've really started
trying to read that to vamp that up so
we appreciate having you here also blip
TV viewing through there nice to have
you joining us Miro internet TV super
great to have you here first-run TV nice
to see ya and everybody watching on
their Roku device and wherever you're
watching from as well just nice to have
you here right we got a question from
mike 69 de they might in the chat room
so here's a question regarding bash
strips um so how can I design a script
that automatically answers uses the root
password when starting for example my
SQL and other services maybe it's not
the best idea to use the root account
right now I have two scripts I accessed
by two lens from the times allons allons
life cycle yeah lines from the desktop
start and stop some services all right
works but I have to enter the password
manually and I want to avoid this okay
so bash scripting here on Linux creating
a script to do something not sure what
you what it is that you're trying to do
here Mike first and foremost when you're
running a script of course the user well
I kind of gotta back up because what are
you doing that you need to initiate
mysql threw a bash script because if
it's installed in a nanette d it's going
to automatically part me the daemon is
going to be running and it's
automatically there if you're trying to
use like a PHP script is that can you
kind of explain a little bit what you're
trying to do so should you be using a
script that automatically pseudos and
creates a super user environment and
then does stuff
not instead your approach should be to
create the script agnostic of who the
user is but then run the script as the
super user so that means if you are for
example wanting it to run automatically
do it through a cron job and run that
cron job as the superuser the root user
you could also have it running through
like our CSD and have it so that it's
running as a user as the root user on
boot beyond that you don't want to have
a script that automatically elevates
applications during the execution
process to root because then you're
opening up yourself to severe
exploitability if you will if somebody
were to get a hold of that script and
then it totally depends on what you're
doing I mean if you're doing things over
ssh you can create you can create keys
for your for your computer so that you
don't have to authenticate using a
password that's always helpful if you're
using like SM BFS or something like that
but not clear about what you're trying
to do so i'll just say probably best to
elevate the script that contains all the
commands not try to elevate the commands
in the script so i hope that helps oh we
didn't see any more questions there all
right but if i go to our email the
questions we have one from Demi Ellis
easier I'm sorry if I butchered your
last name but hey Robbie my church plans
to make live video streaming of its
service every Sunday this is kinda new
for us I would like to have some
knowledge about what should I prepare
for the hardware and software how fast
the internet should be four for the info
my church and it's you it's kind of
using panasonic MX 70 okay is it
possible to connect them to the hardware
or should I
should I have changed it with HD video
mixer and in case I in case i have a
website and is it possible to stream
through it and or should i use a
particular sites to broadcast it so
basically it sounds to me as though
you're just looking for general advice
as to how to do it and the one thing
that i am looking up here is that mixer
that the erica has mentioned here so
this looks like the one this looks like
the back i'm just looking at what kind
of connectors you have you've got audio
out so this guy has got it looks like
BNC outputs right so as long as you're
oh you've got is your STI out yeah there
you go you've got an SDI output so what
you would want is something like a deck
link card in your computer to be able to
capture from this device and it's going
to be I mean that's still HD right it's
still going to look really really good
you don't need to change to hdmi the
reason that we actually use hdmi here is
because we're able to use consumer
peripherals so hdmi is actually just a
cheaper route to go because you've
already got SDI equipment you could just
go that route so go to cat five dot TV /
b h and i'm going to do a quick search
for dec link from black magic designs
let's see if that's the one i think
that's SDI input yes so there you go two
hundred eighty bucks for this little pci
express card it's a next one so it
doesn't take up much room and you can
put a couple of them in if you need to
and that's going to get your SD i input
from that mixing console okay so you've
got that now you've got a capture device
that's going to do the video and then of
course you run the audio into your sound
card as well and you mix it all together
with software that's where we look at
something like wirecast telestream
Wirecast starts at five hundred bucks so
very economical for professional video
broadcasting software that said in your
instance because you've got this nice
SDI mixing console you might be able to
get away with just using inbuilt
broadcasting tools such as youtube's you
know ability to broadcast using wire
cast for youtube but you need to have a
certain amount of followers i think for
that so with regards to so that's
to create the stream sure look at
Wirecast cat five dot TV / Wirecast see
if that has features that you want to
add to your chain where that's
advantageous okay just to back up a
little bit i'm talking about how you can
stream through you streams broadcasting
tools you can stream through you
YouTube's broadcasting tools Wirecast is
it happens before the stream goes out so
as you can imagine understanding audio
chains and video chains nice thing about
having wire cast in the mix from cat5 TV
/ Wirecast is that you'd be taking
direct SDI off the board and then with
wire cast you could be recording to disc
at the same time as you're broadcasting
out and when you're recording to disc it
can be a different frame size it can be
a different bit rate it can be different
video and audio qualities then the
stream that's going out because the
stream that's going out is going to be
much less quality because it's limited
to your internet connection as you
already understand so with wire cast you
can set up like a really good solid
record to disk it's like a digital
recorder as long as your hard drive is
fast enough to handle the throughput
you'll be able to record the file in
real time in full HD beautiful stuff so
then you create a secondary channel
that's going to actually broadcast out
to youtube or Ustream or justin.tv all
of the options are included with wire
cast and then you can set that down to a
much less you know smaller screen size
smaller bitrate and it's going to use a
lot less bandwidth and what internet
connection you use is going to be
entirely reliant on what what kind of
broadcast quality you want during the
live broadcast keep in mind you're going
to be recording to disk as well so after
the service you can burn it to DVD you
can burn it you can share it with people
on flash drives you can put it up on
your website and stream it directly off
your website you can put it on a YouTube
channel and you then have access to this
vast resource of YouTube viewers so you
know there's all these different things
we're happy very very happy to be able
to help you make your decisions so you
know keep the questions coming even if
you want a video conference with us or
have a phone call pick up the phone give
me a call during a live show or after
the fact to is fine
hopefully that'll point you in the right
direction so internet connection
absolutely dsl is your minimum and
that's really hurting you video quality
on a dsl connection you've got about one
megabyte one megabit up you're not going
to be able to push more than half of
what is available to you because you've
got other things going on certainly in a
church environment you probably are
sharing the internet connection with
multiple users multiple computers so
that's not a good situation for
broadcasting you're going to need to
consider if I've got this many computers
all on this one connection and it's only
one Meg up I don't have enough bandwidth
to do more than 200 kilobits up which is
not good you probably want to have a
dedicated internet connection cable like
coaxial Internet is going to give you
more speed more throughput for upstream
than dsl can provide so cable can give
you too Meg 10 meg up here in Canada at
least that's a that's about the limit is
about 10 meg up and then if that will
allow you to broadcast full HD we
broadcast at 480p full 480p through
YouTube and then we record two discs at
720p and after the show we upload the
720p files just to give you an idea of
how that works so that our upload during
the live show isn't maxing out our
connection but we can later at the
higher quality file for those who want
to download it or watch it on demand so
thank you very much for the question is
thanks that was from David and from
Indonesia oh cool that's exactly cool uh
we have a question from our chat room
it's SR wenches sure bunches I have a
cheap 27 inch monitor and I'd like to
use for a nice picture frame what's a
cheap low power way of doing it and
grabbing the photos off the server
preferably rikomagic XMBC on Raspberry
Pi something else yeah that's kind of
what I'm leaning toward is kind of like
a raspberry pi kind of mod or something
like that because it's a monitor the
question becomes does it have hdmi input
because HDMI is typically not for
computer
monitors but some of them do have a hdmi
input so that would be the question so
the rikomagic devices primarily are all
hdmi output for the HD stuff this one
the MK 602 also has the AV output so if
you have composite you know the red
white and blue or red white and yellow
so that would give you you know access
on a different TV so that might not be
the device for you is there a cheap
solution that I think probably just the
Raspberry Pi running you know just the
multimedia version of that what was the
one that our viewer was using um our
viewer he says that he's not using
anything at the moment um but he's not
too sure what to use from the service
route may lend us on Twitter today sent
us that message and raspa BMC that's
what I thought it was I just wanted to
be sure rasp BMC probably because it's
XBMC on a raspberry pi so that's most
likely the route that I would kind of
direct you are a SP BMC dot-com find out
more information with that because then
you can do it really really cheaply and
while I think you know the the the
novelty of having a rikomagic device and
not having to build anything or use any
time to get it up and running as
beautiful I think that's probably the
right you're going to want to go duct
tape it to the back of the monitor do
anything with that huh good luck
bedazzle that's awesome yeah with
dazzling is still in well if you're me
yeah yeah um we got another question in
chat room from swl brazil hey there can
you suggest a simple gtk calendar
application google and mozilla
oceans is not for me honestly i don't
use any gtk calendaring applications so
i don't know what to suggest i mean
evolution was what i did use but
everything that i do now for calendaring
is in the cloud the proverbial cloud as
we mentioned last week i use google
calendar and then i use what I actually
do because I'm a PHP developer right so
I like to build stuff that works for me
and there's something called full
calendar and is not gtk I know you're
asking specifically for gtk and maybe
the chat room has a good good couple
options for you but full calendar is a
free PHP script that taps into your
Google Calendar and now all of a sudden
you've got control over programming this
thing and I love that because as a
programmer I like to be able to take the
code and you know work with it so but
that's maybe not what you're looking for
evolution has a good calendar and it's
you know exchange compatible and all
that kind of stuff and I'm not sure
these days if it taps into google
calendar or not certainly through ical
files but not sure if its interactive
with the API or not so that's one to
look at evolution and the chat room have
any suggestions we welcome them and of
course you can check out the chat logs
if you're watching this after the fact
and you want to know hey what did the
chat room say just go to our website
category five dot TV click on the show
notes for episode number 312 and you'll
see the chat logs right there up at the
top so we got someone's also saying the
thunderbirds calendar as well oh that's
right yeah Thunderbird introduced a
calendar a couple years ago I forgot all
about that let's see Thunderbird
calendar there's a different name for it
at the time so check that out lightning
that's it so yeah there's an option for
you that's probably I would guess that's
that's pretty active sunbird that was
another one huh I don't know what's what
anymore so there but there's some great
projects mozilla org slash projects /
calendar and again the notes will have
links for you for episode number 312
thanks for the suggestion in the chat
room there I didn't catch whoo-hoo
mention that i mention that was a kill a
kick kick kick kick kick in right
hey we're we're nearly out of time here
so could we hit the inbox and and thank
you for sending in your questions in the
chat room there as well we appreciate
that thank you uh we have I see a lot of
emails coming in so oh yes um we have
one from Todd calm colony Ravi f scott
I've seen your video here um about
multiple USB key webcams all right you
used separate pci or pci e cards for
each camera and their reasoning was that
you don't like having multiple cams on
one host not a good idea yeah now it's
common knowledge that all USB 2.0
devices don't actually use the
three-point o controllers then they use
the two point O controller and they're
simply passed through by the three-point
o bus anyhow what this means is that I
can't connect multiple USB to point out
cams to a USB 3.0 host and expect to
ever get more than four 4 80 mil about
megabits megabit out of it because
they're going through the USB 2.0 bus
well USB 3.0 bus is backward compatible
with the USB 2.0 speak to point a webcam
it will only operate it still at 480
megabits a second but having a USB 3.0
bus means that there's more how would
you say there's there's more bandwidth
available to the card not to the device
because the device itself is still going
to run only 480 megabits a second if
it's USB 2 but the card itself has less
chance of maxing out the bus if you have
a card that operates USB 2.0 guaranteed
speed 480 megabits a second and a device
that operates at 480 megabits a second
connected to that and all of a sudden
your devices using all the bandwidth of
that card it can turn off your camera
so so it can be advantageous to go with
a three point O card just to have that
additional bandwidth on the card doesn't
affect the the camera at all but I see
what you're saying yeah he's also saying
that his problem is I'm trying to
connect as many logitech c920 s to a
computer as possible for a specific
broadcast need and I'd love to be able
to get away from big motherboards with
multiple pcie light lanes okay so see I
went the route of having a motherboard
that had two or three pcie land lanes
and so I and actually different chipsets
within it so I actually had to chip sets
for the PCIe bus so so I can have the
cards separated over two different
chipsets which is nice you're looking to
instead simplify it and make it smaller
the thing the thing is is that you've
got limits on the bus on your
motherboard because a lot of these cards
are going to be x1 so if you put too
much data throughput which is video
right HD video is going to use a lot
through that bus you could max it out
and that can be a problem when you're
doing video broadcasting I see a couple
of links in the email here says that
there are a couple of pci cards pcie
cards i should say that provide for
independent USB 2.0 leurs on board so
i'm just going to take a look at these
Fauria and see what what it is that
you're looking at so in case it's not
clear what our viewers trying to do is
connect multiple HD webcams from
Logitech into a computer for
broadcasting live while not having to
have a whole bunch of cards to plug
those into so I'm looking at these
devices that your look that you're
interested in okay so first one is this
USB 2.0 leur card is it for separate
buses see what what you might be
misunderstanding is that it has four
ports but it's still one bus there's
only one chip on that see that so
there's only one chip there's only one
bus and so in fact
if I'm not mistaken it does that not
tell me that it's only 1.5 megabit data
transfer rate it's a the whole card is
480 megabits but it's divided by 4 know
that what is the 1.5 obviously not but
it would be for 80 / force you'd only
you wouldn't have enough you know you'd
have 120 megabytes per card or USB in
seconds that's the fear with that that's
what I think about that first card
second card again one chip is it four
separate individual buses it has
capacitors on each does it say details
for USB ports but that doesn't mean okay
for independent USB 2.0 ports and an
internal shared port but what is it
sharing with ok high speed USB 2.0 data
transfer rates up to 480 megabits per
second on each port simultaneously ok so
this card looks like it is separate
buses for each port so that means that
each individual port has 480 megabits
per second throughput so your PCI
Express x1 which is what this one uses
that's the interface that you plug it
into is 2,000 megabits per second so
that's this connector here ok so you
basically have the four controllers each
have 500 megabits divided among
themselves that's more than enough for
480 you've got 20 megabits overhead like
so yeah it should be good to go so that
card sounds all right and that's a good
idea because if if you can accomplish
that with USB 2.0 unless to the limit
because like I say you've only got two
thousand megabits to work with and so /
for each port is getting 500 mega bits
and each port is demanding 480 so if you
have a motherboard here's the thing if
you have a motherboard that has only one
pci express
Lane and you are you have that card in
it with four cameras and then you plug
in a printer well you've only you've
already maxed out all of the available
pci express bandwidth right you have no
room to put in a second card because if
the bandwidth is 2000 it's possible that
you're pushing the limits of the of the
bus i think that's all but it's worth
the risk for 65 bucks i'd try it so i
didn't take risks right because we
broadcast every tuesday night we don't
have time to take risks can't take risk
only on New Year's Eve so give that one
a try that Star Trek startech one I was
gonna say Star Trek sounds like it might
do the job quite nicely I'm you report
back to us on my pick up one for the
studio here cuz that sounds pretty
decent yeah hey well thank you for your
question Todd colony thank you so much
for the question and hey if you've got
questions you'd like to send in I can't
believe we're actually at a time here
but we got more questions we're gonna
we're gonna put those ones off for next
week I'm sorry if we didn't get to them
for you this week but hey I do email us
live at category 5 TV and also
communicate with us throughout the week
you can visit our website do make sure
you register on our website so we can
say greets to you and give you all kinds
of silly rewards and and if I didn't get
to your question in the chat room you
could always just email it to us and it
can also be read on air live the next
show we will definitely do our best
always do hey thanks so much for joining
us tonight Erica always a pleasure it's
always good to be here take care have a
great week everybody see ya
we hope you enjoy the show category five
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category five
TV and find out when you can watch live
and interact in the community chat room
category five is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
