hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Kari and my name is Jen
and on today's show we are in part wanna
come on in
you're all welcome this is new and every
day with Jen raggert and Carrie web
[Music]
hey everyone thank you for tuning into
new every day so glad that you've joined
us and I haven't been on the show for
awhile Jen because you've been out
gallivanting with Jane I know we've been
out to the Mid West us and on a road
trip and had a great time and so now
we're back and here we are sitting
together and you are mocha how are you
did some fun things you did some fun
things and did a lot of conversating and
here we are back in the book of Acts
yeah we're back in action okay anyways
Acts chapter 10 so this is the story of
Cornelius mmm-hmm and Jen why don't we
just read through it and then we'll
start to talk about it shatter up you
know like normal all right and says
areia there lived a Roman army officer
named Cornelius who was a captain of the
Italian regiment he was a devout
god-fearing man as was everyone in his
household
he gave generously to the poor and
prayed regularly to God one afternoon
about three o'clock he had a vision in
which he saw an angel of God coming
toward him Cornelius the angel said
Cornelius stared at him in terror what
is it sir he asked the angel and the
angel replied your prayers and gifts to
the poor have been received by God as an
offering
now send some men to Joppa and summon a
man named Simon Peter he is staying with
Simon a Tanner who lives near the
seashore as soon as the angel was gone
Cornelius called two of his household
servants and a devout soldier one of his
personal attendants he told them what
had happened and sent them off to Joppa
there we go
Cornelius so who was this guy so every
time I hear Cornelius
I think of Yukon Cornelius from the old
Rudolph the red-nosed reindeer so I just
see this big burly guy with the big
ginger beard anyway
I know he probably didn't look like that
no because he was Roman yeah and a
Centurion so he was in some level of
fitness I thought there's something
interesting about that okay is that it's
just interesting that they mentioned his
rule
like who Cornelius was he was in this
important position yes and this
interpretation this is the NLT II study
Bible says that it was important for
Luke the author of the book of Acts to
show that Christianity was not hostile
to Roman officials or institutions and
could like Judaism be permitted in the
Roman Empire it's interesting it says
the captain of an Italian regiment at
regiment included six centuries a Roman
legion was divided into ten regiments
hmm interesting ham yes and and he was
the leader of the regiment like not just
a soldier in the army but he was a man
of influence and of some form of
authority yeah and here he is says he
was a devout and god-fearing man he gave
generously to those in need and prayed
to God
regularly hmm you may so moving
[Laughter]
but what's interesting is as even though
he was a Roman soldier he feared God
like so he knew had an awareness of who
God was and then served him with his
life because so often James talks about
what is the religion that God desires
and is to take care of widows and
orphans
you know Micah 6:8 what does the Lord
require of you to do justice to love
mercy and to walk humbly with your God
throughout like ice the Book of Isaiah
says you know to look after orphans and
widows and so here is less you here's
this
roman soldier and romans did not have a
good reputation because that is the
first thing right a Centurion that was
known in what was known as the Italian
regiment so like he was Roman and yet
once you excuse me ah this is all of a
sudden here okay
very um and so I think that first and
foremost is the most important thing is
they're establishing who he is and you
know when you think about it he is like
it was the Roman soldiers who crucified
Christ
it was Rome who had control of Israel
and so it's like why are we even talking
about him right now and yeah the dynamic
then that happens between will see in
the next part between Peter and
Cornelius is very interesting because I
was speaking with a friend about this
recently and how excuse me that the
Jewish people were waiting for the
Messiah who is going to come and bring
liberation right from the oppression of
Rome so like they were waiting for that
kind of Messiah like that kind of King
right but here is this dynamic gospel
that's coming to the Romans to change
them from the inside out not through
another authoritarian figure which right
king or some other official right yeah
amazing
and so here's Cornelius this
phenomenally anomaly in in the Roman
Empire who loves God yeah yes serves
Rome and takes care of people and and
you know it got me thinking as I'm
reading this and it says you know devout
and god-fearing gave generously to those
need and prayed to God regularly and one
of the questions that came up as I was
reading was well how much do you fear
God like do you actually go about every
day fearing the Lord so what does that
what does that mean what does that look
like
but like because it's not like hah right
element of
yeah you could do anything that you want
Lord you created the whole world right
it's that wish everybody ah an intimacy
right it's like wow like the breeze is
yours every drop of hail is yours you
draw the land like you well you draw out
the land you draw the line in the sand
for the waves like they don't come a
molecule farther than what you say and I
actually read that in the Book of
Ezekiel today about how it's his breeze
that blows and I was like wow like
that's the awesomeness of God the ah
right and then the fear is like wow you
you can do all that I'm I'm still alive
yeah you chose to make me yeah so to be
a god-fearing man or a woman is to be
totally aware of who God is and humbled
that the fact that you are alive he's
choosing to be in relationship with you
so you live out your life honoring God
because you fear God like you you you
know who he is and you're just like
dumbstruck that Wow I am still here
mm-hmm and so you do things because God
commanded them like there's this there
is a sense of obedience and it's we
don't obey out of fear we obey out of
the fact that he's God and what's
interesting is we have talked about this
before about the the Roman soldier who
came and asked Jesus to heal his
daughter yes and he believed that when
Jesus said she's healed he didn't need
anyone to go with him right he just said
well because you've said it it's so he
understood hierarchy and authority and
that people obey people who are more
powerful yes so it's very interesting
like this right here we are another
Roman soldier gets God gets the
authority that God has the power that
God has and then lives his life out in
honor and respect of who God is
and so you know I'm thinking mmm okay so
how are you doing at being devout and
god-fearing like that that Wow us of who
God is and you have you go about obeying
hammers oh I live under grace it's okay
some things to think about and maybe
that's a good time for a break so I see
that's some thought what does it mean to
actually fear God and how does the
character of Cornelius make you reflect
on your own character so I'll be right
back
whether you shop on ThinkGeek gearbest
B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon or even
if you want a free trial of audible
you'll find the best deals and support
the shows we produce by simply visiting
the shopping sites you already frequent
by using the links on our website visit
category 5 TV slash partners for the
full and ever-growing list and help us
create more free content like this show
thank you for shopping with our partners
and thank you for watching hey everyone
welcome back we just want to stop and
say thank you so much to our partners
the organizations and businesses who
make this show a possibility
go to our website new every day TV click
our partners page and you'll be able to
see all of those who are supporting us
if you would like to support us you can
click on the patreon icon on our website
and that allows you to donate with the
airing of each show so i've partnered
with us that's great in that each time
the show airs then a certain amount is
withdrawn and donated to make the show a
possibility so that's something you'd
like to consider we sure would
appreciate that and we're just thankful
that you are tuning in to listen and
know we just really benefit individually
from doing the show and we were just
praying before we started recording
about how like every time we we record
after I just feel like my mind is
refreshed my heart is renewed because
we've taken this time to talk about God
and who he is
mm-hmm and so thank you for taking the
time to listen and hopefully engage in
your own mind the principles that we're
learning here and one of those
principles Jen is god-fearing
god-fearing I gotta tell you when I look
at at the way different Christians live
their lives and the ways different
denominations
great in their view of God it's easy to
make a quick judgment hmm and say they
don't fear God because look how freely
they live or look how whatever that may
not totally be the case because God
doesn't see that things that man looks
at but the Lord looks at the heart
yes and I think that the heart and the
motivation is what keeps people
consistent in the way that they
experience God and the way that they
talk about him with other people and the
decisions that they make
so for Cornelius who was in this
position of authority it said that he he
sends a devout soldier to go and get
Peter so obviously he had soldiers who
were devoted to him because they could
see the consistency in his lifestyle yes
what's even more amazing is it says that
he was a god-fearing man as was everyone
in his household and unfortunately I
think in some Christian homes the the
adults might talk the talk but not
always walk the walk at home mm-hmm and
it's even harder than for the rest of
the household to buy him and and believe
and be sincere and god-fearing if if the
leaders of the home are not acting that
way but here's someone who's doing it
right yeah and when you said you know
it's so easy to paint groups of people
or denominations well this is the way
those people are this elementary oh yes
or all the Romans are all the whatever
denominations and and yet you're right
God looks at our heart like yeah you
know it's not like oh you you belong to
the whatever race so you're all good no
he actually goes in and that's what
makes him so wonderful he's a personal
God he looks at the heart of every
single person and examines their heart
and and the fact that you know Cornelius
was this anomaly as I've already said
but he was so
out that he had influence on every
single person his household and in his
regiment yeah so he was genuine
beginning to end and a couple times in
the past I've women who are really
struggling in their marriage with where
their husband is that I've quoted that
first that Paul says that it is the
actions of the woman that will turn her
husband's heart and it's so true it's
not necessarily the words that nagging
like hey come on like you should be
reading your Bible or what did you think
about that what do you think about that
sermon and what you should write it's
that it's like nag nag nag nag the words
the words and that James says be slow to
speak and quick to listen and then Paul
goes on to say it is by I'm hoping it's
Paul by your example right that the
husband will come and it's the same
thing here like Cornelius was a devout
follower of God even though he didn't
know who Jesus was he was a devout
follower of God just like when we talked
about beforehand how the Egyptian the
Ethiopian was reading Isaiah yes and he
was open to the things of the Lord and
he's like how how how can I know unless
I've been told it's explained to me so
his heart was already drawn to our God
yes he had some exposure and started
reading and I think that applies to
Cornelius too
yes is that I also had an interesting
conversation with a friend recently
about like well what if the what about
the people who don't hear about God like
how how will they be evaluated how will
they be judged if they don't know about
Jesus but here's Cornelius who had some
exposure and with the revelation that he
had in seeing the Jews and hearing about
God but you know maybe also
understanding Authority and also looking
at creation and yes leaving that there
is a God who's worthy of my worship and
my devotion so but it's both man's right
yeah like people can know that there is
a God and but yet they saw had to be
told like it is the both hands so we can
abdicate ourselves you say oh no they're
gonna figure it out on their own just by
looking at my life they're gonna figure
it out on their own just by looking at
creation right because that's the Word
of God so I'm totally affirming what
you're saying cuz I believe the same
thing and that he did because Jesus said
I want you to go and tell and like how
can people know unless they've been told
and somebody once said you know tell the
gospel all the time and if necessary use
words that's wrong you have to use words
like it's the boat you need to live out
your life like you're a god-fearing
person and then you actually have to
tell your story you have to tell about
who Jesus is so it is the both and like
but and that's where it comes where he
it says that he prayed to God regularly
it's that open communication with the
Lord so he's hearing or because the Lord
spoke to him and he knew it was of the
Lord because it says he stared at the
angel what is it Lord your Virgin says
sir and he but he knew he knew it was
God right so it's just so interesting
when you spend time with the Lord when
you do what he says when you pray when
he speaks you know like you know it's
him and and so that's he didn't say like
who are you yeah well when when you
spend time with the Good Shepherd he
says that my sheep will know my voice
yes and then they'll follow me they
won't follow a stranger because at that
point they'll have spent enough time
that they know his voice yes and you
know maybe that's where Cornelius was
that and he was ready for the next
revelation that God was gonna bring
which he totally follows out right he
says when the angel who spoke to him had
gone Cornelius called two of his
servants and his about soldier who was
one of his attendants and told him
everything that had happened and isn't
that cool like he wasn't shy he would
like so not only did he have a
relationship with God where he prayed to
God yeah but then he wasn't shy to say
this is what just happened yeah right so
not wondering if they'll believe me
because he was like this is important
yeah so that tells me and that's why his
regiment probably were God fierce
- like that he would have had influence
that it wasn't just like okay let's
close the door and now we're going to
worship God no like he was he showed he
showed his actions he spoke what was
going on like he was like the real he
was the real deal and it's like so when
that question on the side of this says
you know how does Cornelius's life
challenge you I'm like okay how am i
doing it's sharing what what God's doing
in my life and praying regularly yes and
then being open to listen and then being
open to respond so we hope that you will
take time this week to think about this
and think about what it means to listen
and hear and respond and we're gonna
pick up right again next week yes life
on talking we pray fresh in sure
so Heavenly Father help us depressin to
you help us to do what you say which is
what Cornelius did help us help us to
pray that means listening and talking to
you and then help us to obey what you
tell us
help us to be an example in word and
deed of what it means to follow you body
soul and spirit and all we do and always
say or be with our listeners today for
those that are struggling we're sharing
their faith I ask that you give them
confidence and courage for those that
are are struggling to obey Lord
show them where they're struggling and
give them confidence in furniture to do
it you say
this will father your holy spirit from
the hospital system and our waters
amen thank you so much for tuning in we
will see you same time same place next
week have a great week
see you later
you
