welcome to new every day we are wrapping
up our seven part series the seven rules
of the Holy Spirit tonight we're going
to bring it all to a close
we're gonna talk about the Holy Spirit
is our refiner why stick around
don't go anywhere this is new every day
with Jeff Weston Cruz
[Music]
I'm Jeff Weston I'm Lawrence Cruz and
we're so glad to have you with us we are
nearly and we are at the end of a seven
part series found in you version
devotional from Jamie Greene called the
seven rolls of the Holy Spirit you check
out back episodes on our website your
everyday TV you'll also find that them
and all of our other episodes from the
past three and a seasons on YouTube Cody
Plex Roku you name it if it's on demand
it's at how about cable what about that
yes in fact we are on kt VD b tv
television for the high desert and that
is in Southern California so glad to
have you with us as I said at the
beginning seven rules of the Holy Spirit
we now are on the Holy Spirit is our
refiner it's like that big conclusion
what does refiner me it's the last week
so we're concluding and yeah they all
dovetail together doe Holy Ghost get it
but who stole all their this I don't
know I'm thinking about sugar here for
some reason we're talking about refining
I don't know could it be okay I'm
thinking of that song refiners fire
sorry I won't go now that kind of is
where we're going here tonight
you know Isaiah we could be talking a
little bit about the refining work of
the Holy Spirit or maybe a lot about the
refining work but what does that look
like does that scare you does that
surprise you does that make you say what
in the world are you talking about maybe
all of the above for many of us who
knows but J Lee Grady does a good job in
saying this when the spirit that is the
Holy Spirit came upon the 120 disciples
in the upper room on the day of
Pentecost he was manifested primarily in
two ways one the sound of a rushing
mighty wind
- flames of fire that miraculously
lighted on or appeared on each person's
head just picture that I well I'm
picturing a bunch of people know and
Jean the greedy goes on to say I don't
think we're talking physical fire but no
a spiritual aspect of oh for sure he
says like well nobody's hair got burned
off anyway we do know that anybody hurt
anyone nobody's hurt here and they were
filled with joy so but I mean wind and
fire
obviously like throughout the scripture
it's clear references to God yes to his
power to His Holiness and the author is
suggesting and stating to his refining
ability and desire that just yeah that
doesn't have it's interesting that's I
mean it doesn't have to be hard and
laborious in fact it's the opposite when
God comes to refine I'm almost seeing
like a mechanic who knows exactly what
to do to tune up an engine and man it's
got maximum horsepower works with ease
right yeah I mean it's not the engines
not come on oh no it's just the right
twist to the right work by the mechanic
and he perfects that motor God comes to
refine his people man and we we we shine
we live we become the very people that
he wants us to be yeah for sure I when
you look at the last six episodes that
we've covered in all these various roles
of the Holy Spirit the fact that he's
got it all under control he's figured it
all out yet it's you know he sat there
like what's gonna happen now but like he
knows he's he's part of the Trinity He
is God the Holy Spirit know was at all
and he lives since good in us sort of
good and so if the Holy Spirit's gonna
in us it means he's gonna see those
deepest darkest parts of your life that
need me
a little bit of house clean because he
knows it all he sees it all he can walk
you through it he can cover you as he
you know rips up some of that grime you
know really that's what the refining is
about you can't have the Holy Spirit in
your life and not experience some sort
of a change
oh boy what if they I agree thanks for
saying that
do you agree with that statement you
know I do it's true it's impossible for
us to house God and not be changed I'm
thinking of Isaiah mm-hmm you'd remember
that passage of the scripture perhaps
maybe some of you have never read it so
I'm sorry I shouldn't ask if you
remember it but there's a there's a
story in the Bible a true story about a
prophet named Isaiah it says there was a
coal of like a hot coal that touched his
lips and he he says Oh Oh heat when he
came close to the presence of God dare I
say the refining presence of God
everything in Isaiah the prophet he says
oh I'm undone whoa whoa like woe is me
the Bible says I'm undone like I've come
close into the presence of God and now
what it does is it reveals everything
unholy I'm not worthy to say or do
anything for you God and that's how the
Prophet felt when he was very near the
presence of God yes I wonder are we
willing to get close to God and are we
willing for God to do his refining work
in us I think the default answer would
probably be no back off did we live in a
society today that says you don't tell
me what to do mm I
individual I've got my opinion that's
your opinion and we'll agree to disagree
or rather you should just see it my way
and what this might you're not the boss
of me oh that one before yeah but that
doesn't line up with the Holy Spirit
yeah I mean I think what I think about
the Holy Spirit I almost put the
visualisation of Jesus on because he was
sent as the helper in Jesus stead when
we talked about that a couple passed up
in it you know when we were talking
about the Holy Spirit is our intercessor
we talked about you know how the
disciples and everybody around what did
Jesus for everything and so you know we
can do the same right and if the Holy
Spirit was standing in front of you with
the you know kind of the visual
personification of Jesus and he goes hey
I'd like to tour your house would you
show him everything in the house or
would you go
Jesus you don't need to go in there it's
it's just the broom closet it's really
really dirty don't worry about I want to
show you the good stuff you mean all the
stuff you push away well you know that
unwanted guest is very handy exactly
that's the crawlspace in my house
crossed me this is the no-fly zone you
need a hazmat suit to go in there please
stay away it's oddly enough in a past
job I had we're talking many many many
many years ago I used to do
installations for satellite satellite TV
and there was a home I went into and the
and the the owners owned a really
elderly guy and I said all the TV's here
run the cables in here and I said okay
and I'm just gonna check the basement
I'm like oh I need to run the cables to
the room he's like I don't often watch
it going in there homeboy
okay you know well I well if you want
the cables come up through the floor to
you TV I need to get in there exactly
here's the deal my son died in that room
about 20 years ago and I just can't
bring myself to go in there oh my
goodness Jeff so you know I had a
conversation I respected the the
sanctity of that room two hearts of
course what he didn't tell me is that in
his grief he trashed the room like
destroyed it in anguish and so when I
went in that room it was completely
dismantled hmm and having not been in
there for 20 years it was moldy I've
never seen spongy cement before but the
cement foundation was spongy because of
all the mold and mildew and the
destruction that was in there and that
that one room condemned his his house as
far as I'm concerned andand I went in
there around the cables and I got out as
quick as I could but I think of that and
I go how many of us have a room like
that in our lives
well that we're seeing yeah holy spirit
I don't want you in there I wonder
that's a great oh my goodness
okay did that just happen to you what
happened to me that guy just rocked me
around his finger I was like what I
could oh I could see that room I could
seal this so I believed every word you
said man but I'll tell you what you had
me right there and Jeff thanks this is
our friends we want you to stick around
we're already through the first half of
our show and we've got more to talk
about
well how imagine we're talking about our
awesome God the Holy Spirit and so I
don't go away stick right there we'll be
back after a few short words
stick around for more from new every day
for a limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV Network these high quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official Network shirt today count 5 dot
TV slash shirts welcome back to new
every day
glad to have you with us we're talking
about the seven rolls of the Holy Spirit
and this one is where the room had been
lived don't you get in the room in 20
years approximately
yeah the cement foundation was molding
mildewing and spongy and I mean the
visual of that is is enough I mean it's
it's hard to take in it was hard to
actually physically be in the room but I
feel better but someone might call it
legit Lee Grady kind of talks about that
unforeseen area for so long with a great
example not unlike that one actually
it's very true of it I'm still kind of
like still back in that room J Lee
thanks for rescuing me here I need to
come back to the land of the living so
he asked the question that we had
already asked is are you willing to
allow God to purify you even in the
hidden areas Jeff I'm gonna say yes come
on that should be the answer I'm willing
I've learned to love my God because he
first loved me is that your testimony
I'm sure it is yeah and so I'd be
willing to allow God to purify me even
in
the hidden areas I never always felt
that way and Grady says suppose you have
lived in the same house for 24 years and
then you decide to move just thinking
about your story the process of packing
and cleaning that house is never easy
that in itself is like I want to hire
somebody right imagine what you will see
if you pull your refrigerator out from
the wall to put it on the moving van
move some have you done that yeah we
pull our something moving back there
there's that can we cook that for the
barbecue ok so he says it's been in the
same corner of the kitchen for a long
time he writes no one ever swept under
it 24 years is what he's saying in the
story right the tile would be filthy the
floor might be caped with layers of
grime dust stray nut shell specks of
rotted food Oh lost hair bands dog hair
unidentified stains that have been there
for more than two decades Oh aren't you
glad you tuned in today
he says yuck this would require some
special cleaning to get your house ready
for a new owner I dare say you know I've
never lived in a house for 24 years the
longest I think I've been in a house
that my wife and I have one who's been
about six and even that cleaning was
horrible mmm because you got little kids
and the grimy fingers and suddenly you
start moving stuff out you're like oh I
forgot that I'm almost green it's kind
of yellow now
[Laughter]
see what the picture was all right I got
it but yeah I mean that's a whole lot of
grime underneath the fridge for 24 years
yeah that would be quite a thing I'm
just yeah I'll probably be quiet but
I've it wasn't 24 years but I've needed
to do some cleaning and I like to clean
to keep a clean house too as far as like
I thank God I live with a family who's
clean so it's my kid but I mean hey even
the best of us right stuff goes down
it's all good stuff you got to pay
attention
yeah well I like what our author says he
says it's a scary thought and I think in
all the joking aside now right but
perhaps you may have areas such as this
in your own life and when I'm reading in
it it's like Lawrence maybe you've got
areas such of this and I'm like oh Lord
search me mm-hmm the scripture says that
search me Lord
try me know me Savior would you please
my would you put the spotlight on me or
maybe to stay in tune with what the
scripture saying hey fire of God would
you please come near and illuminate
anything in me that is unwanted mm-hmm
sometimes the author says we hide our
secret sins in private compartments well
we learned that well from Adam didn't we
yes you know what happened he blew it he
sinned he ate of the fruit and instantly
he's hiding from God wrap your mind
around that he's sovereign God knows
everything all the time all at once
trying to hide from God and you know the
silly thing is it's no less ridiculous
when you and I try and do it yes sir
or when any of us trying hi and it's no
less you know surprising either because
that's what we do isn't it we do
something we know isn't right and we
don't want anybody to know even our God
and as he comes what might become that
secret compartment he says right
sometimes we hide our secret sins and
private compartments and actually yet
yeah we I have and we know how to mask
ugliest attitudes Oh God but when the
spirit comes in power he comes to scour
us of our grit and our grime st that's
good though it is good right it's so
good you know and you know for topic
like this you know instantly I think of
things like you know pornography
yeah those those those kind of taboo
topics or nobody talks about it you know
keep it under wraps and statistically
more than fifty percent of males
struggle with monography mm-hmm so I
mean if you were to sit in your church
and kind of look around statistically
speaking not saying actual but statists
statistically speaking half the guys in
your church struggle with it but nobody
talks about it okay men maybe you're one
of those people we've spoken to many so
there's no shame and yet you do feel
ashamed because it's kind of like some
of that stuff that's packed in behind
that 24 year not moved
you know Appliance right well good I'm
glad that you're here and that you're
listening to us because the Holy Spirit
is able to do a work that's amazing in
things even like pornography that's true
yeah I read you and I know were winding
down on our time but I want to take two
minutes and give an example again in my
life of a not-so-secret area in my life
in an area in which I struggled that I
refused to hand over to the Holy Spirit
it was my anger I've kind of the lowest
point my spiritual life anger ruled me
yeah and I've ever been there
you're not alone that's for sure and it
almost led to the the dissolving of my
marriage with Jenny my anger was that
bad no thank goodness I never raised a
hand it wasn't violet but I was a very
angry bitter person yeah and at church
one day we had somebody who had never
met before it guest speaker gave this
amazing that's couldn't tell you what it
was about yeah like it was but it's good
and I remember my wife and I went up to
the front and this is just when we were
kind of coming back to the church and he
looks at me he goes you've got anger
issues call the guy so this is the Holy
Spirit revealing an area in my life
Wow and I'm like yeah so we're gonna say
you're just like a you you respond you
get out of your seat to go and pray and
a guy walks by and says yeah you got
anger yeah he comes up to us and he's
like you've got anger issues and I'm
like yeah okay and it's like I need to
tell you something he's like I believe
God's telling me this if you don't deal
with your anger your daughter will not
go to heaven
oh no I'm like we don't have a daughter
and he's like you will you're gonna have
a daughter and whether she goes to
having her hell is solely gonna be upon
whether you resolve your anger or not
so in that moment the Holy Spirit were
filled to somebody else that I have an
issue that was controlling my life that
I wasn't allowing him to deal with and
he prophesied that we're gonna have a
daughter and that my addressing that
issue that secret place was going to
determine whether she gets to heaven her
health and I can tell you I have a
daughter mm-hmm I don't have an anger
issue think that she loves Jesus with
all her she's on her way to heaven that
is the refining power of the Holy Spirit
when he speaks into your life speaks to
a moment of us a situation and says I
need this to be dealt with you have a
choice are you gonna deal with it or are
you gonna ignore the leading of the
whole
spare your comfort your guide your
uniter mm-hmm so what am i hearing
you pulled the appliance out and said
God go ahead scrub the floor you scrub
the floor yeah you didn't hide it you
acknowledge that knowledge it fell on my
my knees and I said god I'm so sorry
what what everything is different
because of it and I have a joy that yeah
I can see exactly are you with me for
you why is Lawrence laughing because I
know the guy and my goodness that it's
so so far behind him you know even that
yeah I guess that's it's not it's not
even part of who we are anymore even
that's what the scripture says like when
when the refiner God the Holy Spirit
comes and cleans us up Oh friends none
of us need to hide from him he's not mad
at us he's not against us he's for us
but he's holy and he won't entertain sin
that makes me want to serve him more
he's worthy of our worship because he is
pure he is holy and that's what he does
in and for and through each of us to who
lay our excuse me who lay our lives down
and let him come in Jeff what would you
say to someone who maybe thinks they
have to keep something a secret what
would you say to them don't ya wanna let
it see the light of day and if that
means going to somebody you Church maybe
it's your pastor or a close friend and
say look this is my issue this is what
I'm struggling to know maybe it's not
necessarily a taboo sin like pornography
yeah yeah you know it's that you try to
fill a void in your life by spending
money you want to go shopping because it
makes you feel there is something in
your life that needs to be fed and
that's why you're feeding it was
shopping and and something like that
give that to the Holy Spirit
God search me hmm point out that thing
in my life that needs to be removed
refine me Lord oh yeah like all it takes
is a simple ask and he's gonna go
alright there's this thing yeah and then
when you resolve that there's going to
be another until the day we die there's
always a refining because we're human we
have faults but that's why we've got the
covering grace of Jesus Christ in his
blood so that we are faultless you know
just like we've never ever sent that's
right brand-new floor brand-new
appliance no none of that stay I think
it's awesome friends we are so think we
got to wrap it up what an amazing series
we've had with you thanks so much for
watching thanks God thanks for being
amazing Holy Spirit thanks for doing all
fulfilling all these roles in our lives
we bless you friends and pray that
you'll continue to invite this precious
God this Holy Spirit to be part of
everything that you are and when you do
look at all have a know break loose in
your life god bless you richly
check out this devotional if recovery
from you version on the Bible app from
Jamie Grady it's called the seven walls
of the Holy Spirit
great rich message encourage you to read
it if you haven't already check out our
past episodes to catch all the past
roles that have been covered in this
thanks have a great week catch a new
episode of new everyday every Friday
morning at new every day TV
so on roku cody flex youtube google play
music podcasts and news book or if
you're in Southern California tune in
every Sunday morning at 6:30 on kbdb TV
channel 33 television for the high
desert
you
