here the story is recovering this week
in the category 5 TV newsroom research
suggests thousands of websites are being
hit by cyber cyber thieves who implant
code to scoop up payment card numbers
the no-fly zone for drones around
airports is to be extended following the
disruption at Gatwick in December a
wake-up call as quad Regas founder takes
135 million dollars of their customers
cryptocurrency to the grave and a new AI
is able to generate freakishly realistic
people who don't actually exist these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere this is the category 5 dot TV
newsroom covering the week's top
textiles looks like Linux by us Jeff
Weston Gemma you're building a brand-new
beautiful website
what
aren't you right you're a terrible actor
what the swear acting comes into play
you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash DreamHost to sign up for unlimited
web hosting for your website with
unlimited email accounts MySQL databases
the latest version of PHP WordPress and
more and even a free domain name
registration it's less than six dollars
per month so sign up today cat five dot
TV slash DreamHost
I'm Sasha Rickman and here are the top
stories were following this week
research suggests thousands of websites
are being hit by cyber thieves who
implant code to scoop up payment card
numbers security giant Symantec found
more than 4,800 websites were being hit
by these forum jacking attacks every
month high profile victims of these
attacks include British Airways and
Ticketmaster according to or Allah Cox
director Symantec Security Response Unit
formerly profitable ventures involving
ransomware and mining cryptocurrencies
now made gangs much less money so they
have instead turned to inserting attack
code either when sites failed to update
core software to close loopholes or via
insecure third party apps such as chat
apps analytics packages or other extras
it's a tiny line of code in there and
that's enough for attackers to monitor
payment card info being entered in as
they siphon it off Cox goes on to say
quote it's not obvious that the website
has been compromised to the naked eye
everything would look fine and quote hmm
so I feel like this is just a digital
version of those like the gas pump big
thing this is such an easy thing to
accomplish from a coding standpoint and
I hope that people understand that that
if you launch like if you launch a
wordpress blog and then you install a
whole bunch of plugin
that sound cool yeah this happens I'm
just gonna give you a scenario so oh the
this is a really cool slider that makes
my images slide like a nice slideshow
right just to it looks cool and it's
free okay remember that so then what
happens is some malicious party finds
these really cool sliders that are free
yeah and says hey I'll give you $1,000
to sell me that program so that it can
now be my program that I I'll maintain
it I will take over the project right
it's like little small business
transactions of like coders who I
developed a really cool plugin for
WordPress and Wow
mom what's the pay before somebody wants
to pay me a thousand bucks for the
program that I made in my bedroom that's
that's a very legitimate scenario so
then this party who is now purchased it
injects code into the plugin then they
upload that to the repository WordPress
which you have installed with that
plug-in now says oh there's an update
install updates because we know to
install our updates right so now this
code is injected into our website our
WordPress website just to use that as
the example this is why WordPress
websites you you hear about a lot of
them getting compromised right and then
people start to say oh well WordPress is
not safe no it's the practice of the
administrators that is not safe I have
folks who say to me I want administrator
access to my WordPress site and I say
why do you want that oh well because I
want to be able to have control over my
site if your business goes under hold on
one second how much do you know and what
is that you're going to be putting any
like you have to be realistic here
you've got to understand the risks it's
not a wordpress problem it's a user
problem I'm not going to give you
administrator access you can take that
hosting elsewhere kind of thing yeah
because it's just too dangerous for you
and that's why our local church website
got hacked and turned into an Isis
website this happens because they are
clueless about security and yet there
they're trying to save a buck and so we
installed wordpress and somebody who
doesn't actually understand security is
the one who's administering it right
that's the risk so so now this plugin is
installed and we're doing sales on our
website or we've got we're collecting
contact information the emails and
things like that and all they're doing
is transparently you don't even know
what's happening if someone enters their
credit card number it's sending a copy
to you for the payment and it's sending
a copy to the malicious party as well
right that's it you don't even know
what's happening now what using
third-party services like say - lien or
something where you can have your
payment you know cards in your program
that automatically fills it in would
that be more secure or does the form
still read that information it's not
it's not at all that's not this problem
okay all right this is form injection so
this is taking a form that is being
submitted on a website collecting the
data before it sends it to the actual
processor okay so your question was it
does it help if I as the administrator
well let's say I use PayPal as my
payment processor or as the
administrator I allow maybe I'm used
Medeiros and you know I'm sure I'm a big
business well it doesn't matter because
that information has to be transmitted
to maneras in order to get the the
charge to happen and then it comes back
with a yeah it passed or no it was
declined now in that case though maybe
that's a different it's a different
process because it's like OAuth and yeah
okay the transaction details are never
exposed PayPal same thing you don't
actually get my credit card number if
you that's right process my transaction
with PayPal so it's a different thing
however they could enjoy they could
receive my PayPal user credentials Oh
theoretically right cuz I saw the form
because it's because it's being
transmitted through the form right they
wouldn't get my credit card number so
it's a little bit of a different
scenario but still but any data that's
transmitted can be intercepted by these
types of infiltrations and part of it is
that we've learned that a site needs to
be secure so the engine
has to occur on the actual server it
can't occur out in on some other server
that's been compromised and then hey
it's communicating back and forth no it
has to happen on the actual server
that's hosting the website because
that's the security certificate so it
happens completely transparently I
perform so be careful right well I think
it boils down to you know what I've been
saying on the it's come up a couple of
times on our new endpoint security I see
a podcast where Tony ants come and even
Stephen Cobb had reiterated that we need
to be very mindful and Tony really
talked about this that when we are
shopping online as an example we need to
know that we trust the people that we
are purchasing from especially if we're
going to be saving our data for the next
transactions right so Amazon memorizes
my credit card because I'm shopping
there all the time
I don't want to have to enter it every
time but another store where I maybe
shop once a year twice a year I don't
need to have them memorize my credit
card number because I'm only opening
myself up to be exploited if they come
under compromised so just be mindful of
all these things we've learned so much
in this moment of news next moment yes
no-fly zone for drones around airports
is to be extended following the
disruption at Gatwick in December from
March 13th onward it will be illegal to
fly a drone within three miles of an
airport rather than the current point
zero zero point six mile exclusion zone
the government also said it wants police
to now have new stop and search powers
to tackle drone misuse Gatwick Airport
was shut down for more than a day due to
drone sightings near the runway it
caused chaos for travelers affecting
more than 1,000 flights and about
140,000 passengers since then airports
have been trying to improve their
procedures to detect drones but they
continue to see illegal flights near
their perimeters in January departures
at Heathrow were temporarily stopped
after a drone was reportedly sighted
transport secretary Chris Grayling said
quote the law is clear that flying a
drone at near an airport is serious
criminal act
he continues we are now going even
further and extending the no-fly zone to
help keep our airports secure and our
skies safe anyone flying their drone
within the vicinity of an airport should
know that they are not only acting
irresponsibly but criminally and could
face imprisonment
end quote hmm have no issue with us this
makes no no absolutely
well if three miles is a lot of distance
though and it is but we it's a shame
that they've had to take this step but I
mean you figure how high drones can go
and if you've got a major plane that's
coming in I mean that trajectory is not
it's not like they're you know
helicopter drop oh yeah they're coming
in to go three miles out you're gonna
need it right you know so I I have no
issue with this I think it's good and
it's unfortunate that people are so
careless I think it boils down to the
people the the the only reason that I
have a little bit of a different view is
that my sister used to live fairly close
within three miles of an airport nowhere
near the fly zone like there were no
airplanes going right over her house or
anything but I used to fly around the
field in her yard cuz she had a big yard
and I and I thought well that's within
three miles of the airport so you would
not be able to fly in your field here
because it's a no-fly zone at this point
so there's kind of two sides to it but
people need to be smart I remember when
we heard about these drones a long time
ago I had the idea why don't they come
up with some sort of scrambler or
something that would just knock it it
would not would this distance be far
enough away from the planes that you
could knock the drones out of the sky
747 you need to get about 10 feet higher
otherwise you're gonna hit the wall
issue I think is is the fact that I mean
you've got drone makers from all over
the world and at the end of the day
they're not regulated on how they make
them so it's not like you could say
based on regulations you have to point
you know this script within there there
are my drone cannot fly above the like
to the to the no fly limit
right the GPS signal will we'll stop it
it's like it's like hitting a wall it's
an amazing feeling as soon as you get
there
the drone just is like then it just
stops right you can't go any higher and
all you can do is bring it down about 50
feet and then fly that's it so yours has
that program not it does it and as soon
as you enforce that in every drone
people are gonna be snipping the wire
right that's exactly what you know is
gonna happen
he bikes came out he bikes came out and
people started removing the governors
yes people are boundary pushers by
nature so this is this is why it becomes
a criminal offense now instead of just
hey we had a policy now it's like and
but they can never find the individuals
right again I mean man we have some
really good information on the endpoint
security dossier podcast because Stephen
Cobb was saying you know part of the
issue with cybercrime is people know
that they are probably not going to get
caught how is a Russian hacker in on
Russian soil gonna get caught when he's
hacking an American server it's not
gonna happen and even if he's caught
he's not gonna be arrested or anything
right it's not gonna happen unless he
leaves the country so similarily like I
mean well a drone I mean they still
haven't found the person or persons
responsible no we're shutting down the
airport and they won't and they won't
know they put up a 50,000 pound reward
for anyone with information and nobody's
come for nobody has that information
because it's just drone flying around
close you have to be to the drone in
order to fly it like could you not
remote into your long couple kilometers
could you remote into your remote to fly
your drone could you be like one step up
these days you can use you can just use
a headset and you can fly it as far as
you want and yeah is this within range a
couple kilometers or so yeah then you
can see from the cameras to be the issue
for planes Christmas lights just a
couple of moments a couple of months ago
a wake up call as quad Regas founder
takes 135 million of their customers
cryptocurrency to the grave when the 30
year old founder of a Canadian
cryptocurrency
change died suddenly he took around 180
million dollars Canadian and
cryptocurrency to his grave now tens of
thousands of quadriga CX users are
wondering if they will ever see their
funds again
back in 2014 one of the world's biggest
online crypto currency exchanges mount
Cox unexpectedly shut down after losing
850,000 bitcoins valued at the time at
nearly point four billion dollars its
meltdown shook investors in the volatile
emerging market place but the calamity
at the Tokyo based company proved a boon
for a new Canadian online crypto
currency exchange quadriga CX founder
Gerald cotton said at the time people
like the fact that we're located in
Canada and know where their money is
going some five years later caught in
sudden untimely death has left thousands
of his customers scrambling for
information about their own missing
funds this month quadriga
which had grown to become Canada's
largest cryptocurrency exchange was
granted temporary bankruptcy protection
in a Canadian Court the firm said it had
spent the week since Cotton's death
trying desperately to locate and secure
the cryptocurrency reserves in court
documents quadriga says it owes up to
one hundred and fifteen thousand an
estimated two hundred and fifty million
dollars Canadian about seventy million
dollars in hard currency and about 180
and 190 million in cryptocurrency based
on recent market rates it believes
though it is not certain that the bulk
of those millions in reserves was locked
away by cotton in cold storage which is
an offline safeguard against hacking and
theft for now all has been all trading
has been suspended on the platform he'll
say yeah of course hey anybody wanted
right on there okay so if but if it's a
if it's a registered exchange now
granted I don't know if it falls under
the exchange rules as far as like the
stock market goes but it's a company
with somebody not have had authoritative
powers to take over all those accounts
it doesn't work that way it's
cryptocurrency so he
had the it presumably he had the D the
keys yeah he had private keys right but
then who gets access to his estate like
this is the ship he was 30 so he didn't
think of that I bet maybe he was thirty
we'll know in the next couple of was a
Canadian 30 year old I feel like he
probably thought he had another 50 years
easy but I mean like I start not I don't
think if you're gonna have a company
that it's one point had point four
billion dollars in cryptocurrency you'd
have some sort of lawyer and backing
behind you and you some sort of a friend
named Jeff at the time when you were
starting that you might have thought of
that but if you were just a guy that was
taking advantage of the fact that he had
a great idea and that the other you know
Tokyo based company had problems then
you just haven't ideas you run with it
and then all of a sudden you meet an
untimely end and your people now are
scrambling probably trying every cold
storage area in Canada yeah it's got no
it's not it's not a physical space oh
this is cold storage crypto yeah
this means we that's the keys in my mind
it's like that time when that computer
ended up in the dump
remember that's right so I figure that
it was that hard
let's okay that's let's use this as an
example okay so we've got a DT 2000 from
Kingston yes it has a passcode key lock
yes I set the password on this and I put
all my files on this pretend that these
files are
the crypto currency keys for thousands
of customers okay so this basically is
the access to their money without this
you cannot gain access to that money
right now you can punch in your code you
can try to guess my code ten times and
then it wipes itself right
everything's gone from this Drive right
okay he had the keys yeah and he died
unexpectedly so he didn't he made a
stupid decision I'm sure yeah it wasn't
intentional to take anybody's money no
he thought he was being wise to get it
into cold storage which is to make it
inaccessible by hackers
and it's it's a tough call because if
you're gonna trade in cryptocurrency you
need to have your own cold storage you
need to have your own they call it an
offline wallet it's a wallet that is not
accessible by anyone other than you keep
your keys somewhere safe I've got them
on paper no no and on paper your wife
can find them if something happened to
you
crypto currency isn't insured in any way
is it how do you prove your
cryptocurrency if it went missing it you
can't it's impossible that's the whole
point so it's just one of the so-so
because he is because this is an
exchange it's different this is not a
bank a bank you put your money in and
you trust your money safe right this is
not that this is an exchange this is
where I put my money in order to
exchange it to other took other
currencies to other right so you hear
about the value of Bitcoin and you think
well how do you actually monetize that I
can't walk into a store and buy
something with Bitcoin no so you put
that Bitcoin on an exchange convert it
into etherium convert it into litecoin
and convert it into US dollars right but
it has to enter the exchange in order to
happen yeah so that's why people put
their currency in there unfortunately
some people leave their currency and
they're not ever really making the wise
decision to move it into a paper wallet
or an offline wallet
it's truly is unfortunate yeah because
at the end of the day the the idea is a
great idea but because the security and
the succession planning wasn't thought
out as a company people are now getting
screwed but fortunately it's a really
tough thing yeah and if I have paper wad
like it's gonna set a bad image for
cryptocurrencies because people are
going mows my money but at the end
that's not the issue the issue is this
case no you wanted you wanted safe
guarantee you wanted a currency that
cannot be traced right so this is the
side effect of that if something goes
wrong it's right mm-hmm but the the
really crummy thing is that you know
people can't get that money back
hmm it's a tragedy really there anyway
to so many ways to like pull those
trying transactions through the block
coin to rebuild it through the
blockchain store a block j2me no no you
have to have the keys right and just to
find a final thought not to be ominous
or anything but you you think okay well
why don't you just have a paper wallet
why didn't he just have the keys printed
and stored in a safe or something and
and one of the things that's also
happening with these kinds of folks so
the people who are responsible for
Bitcoin and and and other cryptocurrency
exchanges is that they are now targets
sure because if I know that somebody has
that kind of currency and it's
untraceable and I know that they store
the keys in their vault instead of in
their head then I want in their vault
I want it result at all costs because as
soon as I have those keys I have all of
that currency and there is no tracing
that transaction that's right ah well
let's move on to some lighter news yeah
okay a new AI is able to generate
freakishly realistic people who don't
actually exist at first glance they just
look like average looking people the
catches and none of them exist all you
all these faces that you're seeing are
fakes put together by artificial
intelligence to be more precise these
faces are created by a generative
adversarial network or Gann developed by
Nvidia using deep learning techniques to
produce realistic portraits out of a
database of existing photos head over to
this person does not exist com2 see for
yourself every time you refresh the page
the network will generate a new facial
image from scratch with again new to
neural networks neutral neural as in
designed to mimic the brains
decision-making process work in tandem
here one network generates a fake face
while another decides if it's realistic
enough by comparing
with photos of actual people if the test
isn't past the face generator tries
again this feedback loop is responsible
for the images you can see here similar
Gans have been used to switch a scene
from winter to summer Nvidia's
impressive face coding is now managing
to add a new level of authenticity
through what's known as style transfer
processing different parts of the image
like face shape and hairstyle separately
it means different faces can be more
easily and more realistically blended
together in a similar sort of way that
photo apps turn your face into a
painting or sketch after training the
programmers can combine these aspects in
any way they like the weighting of these
different facial aspects can be tweaked
and adjusted as necessary giving the
programmers greater control over the end
output that is incredible I know it is
freaky how realistic those faces are
they are have you seen derp fakes like
they can make faces look like they're
saying stuff or singing or whatever yeah
dig take this blend it with that and
suddenly you've got actors that don't
exist well and that's it I mean when I
first saw this I was pulling it up my
wife's like what are you doing like
you're looking and random people I mean
they're not people so use this as your
app what use these as your avatar well
yeah right
except then Facebook is like send me on
your picture to prove that it's you now
I will say though not all of the
pictures were great there was a few that
came through and when I looked at them
I'm going there's something odd about
this and I think it's a matter of
learning to you know kind of figure it
out but in general they looked really
really lot of them yeah it's true it's
like the little imperfections like the
smile lines around the eyes or the
crooked teeth it's like those sorts of
things that make you feel okay this is
an authentic person not an AI generated
perfect symmetry chol being like nobody
is it's incredible stuff yeah it's well
it's but at the same time it makes you
go now can I trust anybody
is image online it's like yeah you know
like could you turn around and create
you know a whole story about somebody
and have pictures and create this fake
like you've got these fake Facebook
profiles about steel that's loose and
stuff I'm thinking about the real
positive aspects of it though you're
thinking that let's get let's get all
yeah let's get into the neck no think
about this a game in virtual reality
with your headset so that is able to
upon launch generate all of the
characters that look like real people
and everybody has never been seen before
and they're not even real people but
they look incredibly real because the AI
could take that and form it on to a
model right so now just add three
dimensions to the photo it's in VR yeah
interact with these people you know kids
games these days they generate avatars
upon watch and it's all you know it's a
different avatar every time but their
video game quality now take it and take
it to the next level make them look
really real now I worry though what
would happen if somebody use that image
and there happen to be a real physical
your doppelganger it's it looks like
somebody who kind of looks like me or
you know refresh all right yeah but it
would be freaky like not only am i no
longer like an individual but I like
copied by and it's an AI person you know
well see don't you just look at you go
am I really real let's put together like
a wanted poster sure with light and just
every week change the photo to one of
these AI generated photos see how many
calls you go or like employee over the
month let's just do it as employee there
you go
brilliant we're gonna put that up behind
us alright let's get let's get over to
coin gecko here's what the crypto market
looked like as of 1800 hours Eastern
Time on Wednesday February 20th 2019
Bitcoin is up gaining three hundred
fifty three dollars and sixty cents u.s.
doing very well in that 3900
$58 and 86 cents litecoin is also up
gaining about $10 just 9.50 two cents us
at 50 110 etherium is also at 146 94
gained $25 in 37 cents since last week
Manero is rising slowly at 51 24 and a
small guys have come down just a little
bit stellite is down at one point five
nine ten thousandths of a cent and
turtle coin at 0.8 to remember that the
cryptocurrency market never closes and
is always volatile big thanks to Roy W
Nash in our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our web
site from the category 5 TV newsroom i'm
satya Rickman and i'm robi ferguson hey
Jeff Weston thank you so much for being
here with us again this week looking
forward to next week same place same
time see you then did you like to turn
it on that's right
[Music]
[Applause]
