it's tuesday january twentieth 2015 and
here are the stories were covering this
week the german city of munich wants to
help shape the future of libre office so
they've joined the document foundation
advisory board the mint box mini has
double the performance of its
predecessor and will fit in your pocket
goodbye google glass we barely knew you
imagine being able to generate power by
walking that's what's being developed by
a team of German researchers who plan to
use the technology to power self-lacing
shoes target is closing all its Canadian
stores not even two years after moving
here Canadian auntie's anti-spam laws
have made it illegal for programs to
auto-update without your consent and the
british-built mars rovers sent to mars
in search of signs of alien life was set
to land and never heard from again now
eleven years later NASA's got eyes on
its whereabouts these stories are coming
right up don't go anywhere introducing
Beltone first a revolutionary new
hearing aid so small you can hardly see
it so comfortable you can hardly feel it
for the first time ever you can control
hearing aids directly from your iPhone
pick up the phone listen to music and
use your hearing aids like wireless
headphones hear everything that matters
try Beltone first for a free trial call
one eight hundred Bell tone now
i'm sascha through madison here are the
top stories from the category 5 tvnewser
the city of Munich has joined the
document foundation advisory board
Germany's third-largest city has a long
history of using open source software
much of it well documented more than
16,000 pcs of public employees run the
open source linux linux operating system
and the city makes heavy use of Libre
Office and it's open file formats the
role of the advisory board is to provide
the document foundation with feedback
feedback on how the software is being
used what features or improvements need
to be made providing assistance in
initiatives community projects and
marketing and providing donations to
further development and outreach
companies pay an annual fee is a member
of the board the exact cost of which
varies depending on contribution in the
number of employees with fees starting
at five thousand dollars and topping out
at twenty thousand dollars as a heavy
user of the LibreOffice productivity
suite the city of munich's contributions
will be invaluable in helping to guide
the project towards even greater
usability that is great news Robbie my
goodness who knows what it'll bring yeah
we'll see we'll see good Linux
awesomeness no more Linux awesome
awesomeness Linux Mint has announced
that a new pc in its mint box line of
pcs is coming to in the spring the mint
box mini the new box continues the
distros long-standing partnership with
israeli computer manufacturer compu lab
which began with the release of the
original mint box pc back in 2012 that
was followed the year after by the more
powerful mint box to a device which sold
out in Europe on its Amazon debut last
year the mid box mini is five times
smaller than the original mint box and
is barely an inch tall like the previous
editions the new model is fanless with
the case design working as a passive
cooling system
previous mint box models had a very
distinctive look but if we can be
critical of anything with them in box
mini it's the utilitarian design it
looks like a little dsl modem wearing
and aluminum shed that said something
this tiny is going to be easy to hide
away if you want the mint box mini
offers twice the performance of the mint
box to in a form factor you could slip
into a pocket inside it touts an AMD a
for 6400 t cpu which is a 1 gigahertz
64-bit and boasts four cores it also has
a radio on our 3gp you four gigabytes
ram and a senha 64 gigabyte solid state
hard drive that is a lot Robbie yeah
I'll say I could make a nice little web
server if you ask me with those kind of
specs you could host a website on that
would be screaming fast let alone what
else you could do with it as a desktop
but yeah I slipping into your pocket I
just love how absolutely tiny it is and
that don't use a lot of power to write
you think about the fact that this thing
you think I I think in terms of web
servers and things like that in services
and but the amount of power that a
full-size server uses versus a little
solid-state device with not even a
moving part yeah how how excellent and
then one of the problems with servers is
if they overheat right so if it's that
small it's got to be easy to keep cool
you would passive it's aluminum so it's
like a heat sink right so that what's a
comparison I guess if you've seen the
inside of a computer you've seen a heat
sink but like chips will have like an
aluminum thin on it that draws the heat
away from the chip right yeah so the
whole computer is based on that kind of
passive cooling system looks pretty good
that is awesome the mint box mini will
be 295 dollars when sold to the US and
295 pounds shipped in Europe not bad a
portion of the sales will go to
supporting linux mint and cover the cost
of the whopping 5 year warranty since
these are gonna be sold five years Wow
five years opping five years since these
are going to be sold on Amazon we should
add these to the shop category five dot
TV
so if you want one once they're
available why don't we do that that
would be great maybe I could get one and
review it for my show area perfect
little device for tribal yes Google is
ending sales of its google glass eyewear
the company insists it is still
committed to launching the smart glasses
as a consumer product but it will stop
producing glass in its present form
instead it will focus on future versions
of glass with work carried out by
different divisions than before the
Explorer program which gave software
developers the chance to buy glass for
fifteen hundred dollars or nine hundred
ninety pounds will close the program was
launched in the united states in 2013 it
was then opened up to anyone and was
launched in the UK last summer it has
been expected that it would be followed
by a reasonably befall of reasonably
quickly by a full consumer launch but
from next week the search firm will stop
taking orders for the product but it
says it will continue to support
companies that are using glass the
things learned from glass will be used
in the development of
yet-to-be-announced future products from
google several companies have launched
smart glasses and various other forms of
wearable technology but no single
product has yet proved to be a major hit
that technology companies are looking
for as they seek out the next big thing
google has tried to present this
announcement just as another step of the
evolution of amazing innovation but make
no mistake Google glass is dead at least
in its present form I'm not really upset
about this because I wasn't all that
impressed by google glass truly honest
but if you had spent the money to buy
one thinking that it was going to evolve
into a more popular project and then
it's basically dead i would like
wearable technology that put people
around you at ease because people
wearing Google glass or even people
wearing like a a watch that takes
pictures or video yeah makes me feel
really uncomfortable like as soon as I
see somebody with one of those watches
on I think to myself oh you're recording
this conversation
right and I never had a conversation
with somebody with Google glass on but
i'm pretty sure that i wouldn't feel
like they were you know recording me
yeah i mean and it's kind of one of
those things it's like the bluetooth
headset it was a fad yeah you've got to
wear it but then you realize that okay
don't wear it all the time right where
it all the time and Google glasses is no
exception to that rule yeah yeah that's
true i just i serve people that wear the
bluetooth earpiece and i have a really
hard time when they're kind of looking
off knowing whether or not they're
actually ok ok tell you story i grasp it
I was in the shopping center and you
know i'm i'm an outgoing guy and I don't
mind you know conversing with strangers
and stuff and this lady was walking by
and she was talking awareness I said I'm
sorry I didn't hear you what did you say
something like that and she says oh this
idiot just started talking to me
randomly just talking on this bluetooth
he's just walking around with a
bluetooth headset yes like come on there
was a commercial about that about people
in a grocery store having exactly that
awkward interaction that happened to you
actually it actually happened to Robbie
so this is why Google glass is like an
ear hit but I'm a miss so here's a great
invention that I would like as a
waitress German researchers have built
shoe size devices that harvest power
from the act of walking the technology
could be used to power wearable
electronic sensors without the need for
batteries there are two separate devices
a shock harvester that generates power
when the heel strikes the ground and a
swing harvester that produces power when
the foot is swinging both energy
harvesting devices generate power by
exploiting the motion between magnets
and coils as the magnetic field of a
moving magnet passes by the stationary
coil a voltage is induced and an
electric current is generated the energy
they generate is still relatively small
in the three to four milliwatt range at
their peak that's not nearly enough to
charge a smartphone for example which
would would typically require about
2,000 milliwatts but it is enough to
power
all sensors and transmitters opening up
a range of new applications so I wonder
what sort of applications you could have
on something that like small energy wise
you couldn't charge a smartphone but
maybe you could monitor a heartbeat or
something oh yeah maybe a like something
like pacemakers or things or yeah
monitoring yes fitness exactly uh I use
the word stuff because I don't know the
technical term fitness stuff I you know
this stuff room I don't know anything
about fitness stuff come on but you know
why I at the cottage we've got a
flashlight with one of those magnet with
the coils and you shake the flashlight
and it charges the battery and then you
turn it on and you've got your
flashlight you don't ever have to
replace the batteries on on the
flashlight so it makes sense right you
know what actually makes sense to be
honest that in mind is if you had like a
little light on the bottoms of these
shoes that when you were creating energy
instead of having one of you know
joggers at night they have to wear all
of those reflective doodads so if you
had like robots we say to the kids the
kids we joke that they your runner you
look like a robot yeah and if your wit
like the kids old flashy shoes right but
if you had something that's sensed when
it was dark then you know you know alert
those flashy shoes though my kids have
those flashy shoes and once the
batteries are dead their garbage right
as far as the flashing goes because the
kids that's important so if it stops
flashing it's no longer any good so
something like this all of a sudden it
is able to self charge right how perfect
is that so this is this is the
information this is what they're going
to do with this new technology clevis
you leaf from h SG I MIT a research
center in Germany said the swing
harvester was developed with the
intention of making a self-lacing shoe
for the elderly way to go Marty yeah way
to go the shoe would detect when a user
stepped into it and lace itself up as
well as open up again one required
hopefully the harvesting device would
generate the energy for the closing
mechanism details of the advanced are
outlined in the journal smart materials
and structures this is just really
positive great use of new
oh gee I love it it's so simple a and
it's something that we've been waiting
for for some time from Back to the
Future self-lacing shoes and you think
oh that's lazy but no wait for the
elderly that's perfect or somebody was
like a real bad like vacuum jack that's
what I'm thinking yeah mobility issues
in any way right so not just the elderly
but even you know sports injuries and
stuff and stuff and stuff yeah I know
all about sports injuries oh goodness
meanwhile in canada two major retailers
are calling it quits in canada target
canada announced on january fifteenth
that it will close 133 stores across
Canada the US based retailer launched in
Canada in March 2013 too high
expectations unfortunately due to
numerous problems such as higher prices
and less selection in Canada than the
u.s. it never established itself in the
Canadian market due to higher prices and
less stock yes you know what if I can
just say one of the problems that i had
with target coming into canada is that
they bought Zellers which is a chain
that we grew up with and they shut them
all down mm-hmm and people were out of
work so it really felt like the u.s.
coming in and shutting down our stores
so I don't think it's about stock and
those kinds of things so much as boy
maybe an unspoken boycott of everyone
who loved the H like the Hudson's Bay
Company celery okay so here's a funny
story about how passionate and patriotic
I was young when I was younger so we had
a fairly well-known American big-box
store move into Barry and I boycotted it
firm for years or maybe even five after
it moved in and um I sort of similarly
did the same thing with target I thought
to myself it's American I can just go
down the street and get all my stuff
from and then I realized that I have
become so used to shopping at Walmart
that I've now turned it Canadian in my
head sure
the donate you don't get us wrong has
nothing to do with America you know
anything like that it has to do with the
business practice of annexing companies
and shutting them down putting their
people exactly like my people who are
close to me family and friends who had
worked with Zellers for so many years
all of a sudden losing their work after
after so many years of faithful service
with the company yeah yeah absolutely it
has nothing to do with the American
companies it has to do with you know
losing the canadian ones yeah
consequently the company lost about two
billion dollars over two years the
closure meet the closures mean 18,000
employees will lose their jobs many of
targets locations were formerly zeller
stores meanwhile sony canada also
announced it will shut down all its
doors over the next six to eight weeks
it has 14 stores with three of them in
the lower mainland I'm surprised they're
that small Johnny used to be like the
sony store was a big deal we vary in the
day it's true yeah i am i but i can't
remember like I can't think of the last
time I was in a sony store which is
funny I guess they must have been paring
back slowly it's hard when you're when
you're a brand when you're a specific
brand if if like think of any brand and
say let's open a store that is specific
to that brand okay while it's a premium
priced brand and everything you know you
go to a big box store where there are 10
different brands to choose from and you
can choose based on quality and price
versus walking into a store where
everything is one brand and you have no
say in the price or the selection the
japan-based company has not released a
statement explaining why the stores are
being closed the closures were announced
in the wake of the much-publicized Sony
Entertainment hack linked to the release
of the Vancouver shot film the interview
hmm interesting all right so who knows
maybe the interview caused Sony did I
don't know that there's actually any
relation with Sony Pictures yeah I don't
know all right this week in canada
installing computer programs without
consent became a civil offense
herbal by finds under the new
regulations that form part of Canada's
anti-spam legislation it is now illegal
for a website to automatically install
software on a visitor's computer or an
app on your phone with to be updated
without first obtaining express consent
from the owner or another authorized
party hmm that's good I think that's
great yeah I mean except that if you're
going to be sort of malicious anyhow
you're probably not going to listen to
the rule that you ought not to be you
know you know what I'm saying like but I
suppose if there are fines in the hope
is that they're going to be able to
crack down on it but how many of these
websites that are distributing software
which is going to be malicious if it's
installing itself without his permission
and without your permission anyways who
else would do that but malicious users
how many of them are based in Canada and
subject to our Canadian side yeah right
they're not Canadian websites most
likely right does it really have an
impact but it might just set the ball
rolling right yeah the updated rules are
designed to protect Canadians from the
most damaging and deceptive form of spam
and online threats without interfering
with legitimate businesses the revised
rules are targeting nuances such as
adware on PCs and rogue apps on
smartphones false or misleading
representations of products or services
are also prohibited under the new
regulations Canadians are encouraged to
report suspected violations of Canada's
anti-spam laws to the spam Reporting
Center at fight spam GCC a your place to
go finally I'm going to go to report it
I wonder if this it would this have any
bearing on say Facebook and you're using
the facebook app and you click on
messages and it says you need to have
such and such app but I guess if you
consent and say okay if you don't then
you don't get the prophet of the ability
to send messages so I guess it what good
is it really it's all just legislation
of people who are not actually users who
don't understand the technology and how
it works and they say oh it looks good
on paper you have to consent to install
this stuff but it really does nothing
people blindly consent the things all
the time anyhow
I know when I watch people download apps
they just didn't even read through what
they're agreeing to and they just
goodness pages and pages of it exactly
all the good stuff is hidden in the fine
print all right one of the most glorious
near misses in the history of British
exploration beacon to has been found the
british-built beacon to began its fall
to Mars on December nineteenth 2003 it
was expected to land on the red planet
on Christmas Day and began its search
for alien life and begin its search for
alien life but it was never heard from
again the aliens may have found it now
high-resolution images snapped over the
last two years by NASA's Mars
Reconnaissance Reconnaissance Orbiter
shows the probe essentially to just
where it ought to be within three miles
of its target landing location it also
appears intact good job so what happened
the theory base the theory based on the
images is that one or two of the probes
four petals holding the solar panels did
not deploy mission manager professor
mark Sims says without full deployment
there would have been no way we could
have communicated with it as the radio
frequency antenna was under the solar
panels that's unfortunate i wonder if
the antenna was not placed under the
panels whether or not even without the
panels have could have been
communication there must have been a
reason like it's protecting it or
something like a shell yeah and it's
supposed to open up but it didn't open
up so the antenna can pop up it's too
bad sales ain't like there's a 0 is a
kid say yeah while the probe can't be
brought back to life professor Sims
claims this is not the end of the story
they plan to do more imaging in an
analysis but since the probe is intact
the team can be proud that they in fact
were the first to successfully penetrate
Mars's atmosphere and land on Mars even
if they couldn't continue from there so
congratulations and way to go you've
done it yeah the NASA website says that
it was a failed mission but technically
technically based on a technicality you
ended on Mars yeah it's good way to go
it completely not failed congratulations
you get at 50
well you got all the way there you
landed you go through the atmosphere way
to pay for every compliment for sure for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias visit the category 5 TV news room
at newsroom category 5 TV where the
category 5 TV news room I'm Sasha
taratus enjoying the Sun in Jamaica
