welcome to episode number 301 of
category 5 technology TV it is tuesday
the 25th of jun 2013 I'm Robbie Ferguson
and I'm Rachel shoe hey Rachel alright
so coming up in the news on this show we
have some very exciting stuff I click
the button and broke the computer
already it doesn't take long just fancy
little mouse here with all the buttons
alright close the curtains plug in your
precision pointer mouse and acts your
social life portal is now officially
available for Linux Wow and South Korean
government websites came under cyber
attack this morning munich germany is
encouraging its citizens to switch from
Windows XP to linux and yet Facebook
exploit has revealed to the personal
contact info of around six million users
but Facebook acts like it's not a big
deal and webcam hackers may be watching
you Denton tom so stick around these
stories are coming up later in the show
are they watching us yes hey everybody
tonight we've got an exceptional show
for you we are going to learn to install
the latest version yes the latest
version of adobe air on our Linux
machine why would we want to do that
find out tonight also we're gonna be
showing you how to track your time so
that you can get paid for all of the
work that you do when you're working on
a cool project it happens to the best of
us you're working away and you don't
record all your time and you end up
losing some money so stick around we're
going to show you how to do all that
coming up on the show tonight right here
on category 5 TV don't go anywhere we'll
be right back this is category 5
technology TV
at eco alkalines we believe you should
be able to trust your batteries not just
here but here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
the rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference eco alkalines calm this is
category 5 technology TV and you'll find
us online at triple w category 5 TV hey
I want to say big thanks to our monthly
donors as well as our one-time donations
that have come in over the past couple
of months this month we actually hit a
snag episode 301 tear last week and we
ran out we actually literally ran out of
space on our server it's a storage
server we put you know every episode of
category 5 on there and it fills up real
fast and we actually ran out of space so
I was able with your donations I was
able to go out in and upgrade that
server we got an extra six hundred and
some-odd gigabytes which gives us to us
it translates into about another years
worth of broadcasting being able to be
stored there so just wanted to
personally extend the thanks to those
who have donated if you'd like to donate
to help the show you can go to camp 5 TV
/ see and what I started doing rachel is
I thought it would be a good idea for
you know people want to know how the
donations are being spent so I actually
I've started listing they're starting
with the the upgrade to the to the file
server kind of where the money goes and
what we spend it on so not to you sorry
donations just so you know ok so what
pays for the show what pays for our
regular expenses and and keeping the
show going keeping it strong is
advertising so all the ads that you see
please click on them visit websites of
sponsors and things like that that's
what pays for the show to happen then
when you donate the
that are given to us by our viewers
those are used to expand so that's where
we are able to upgrade cameras get
better lighting and of course we're
working on building studio D which is
our brand new studio we're going to be
moving the the studio out of the
basement and into its own space and
that's always been the plan since my
wife and i first bought our house back
in September so we're really excited
about that so that's what we're raising
funds for right now so if you care to
donate if you're able to cap 5d be /c
with big thanks and again i'll post what
we spend that on so big news for our RSS
subscribers the RSS feeds are almost
synced over to the brand new servers so
we're excited about that it's going to
be a lot faster for you as well it means
that people who are watching in mainland
China are going to be able to watch just
any of the feeds that they want they
don't have to use alternate feeds or
anything like now so if you're watching
from a place where you cannot access our
regular feeds that is all going to
change within the next little while
check out our mobile site and the dot
cat five dot TV people in the chat room
were saying you know how can we watch
the show on our mobile device well here
you here you go you can actually go over
there scan that code go to mcat 5 TV you
can watch live you can listen live and
of course you watch the on demand videos
as well so after the show you can catch
the the on demand cool that's my spiel
for the intro of the show Yeah right sit
look I got nothing for you well it's the
beginning of the next hundred episodes
oh and I thought he started it off right
with you know the best co-host gotta
start it well she's mild she's pretty
excellent yeah it was pretty amazing
celebrating our 300th episode last week
with Karrie Webb that was quite an honor
to have her here and I appreciate all
the emails and comments people saying
you know looked like such a good baby i
miss i was like a hundred pounds is here
smaller and
I had longer hair maybe ended yeah grown
that back there you go still wore the
cardigans that still guardians it's all
part of the theme yeah keep those emails
coming folks I'll forward them along to
carry as well lots of comments in the
chat room thank you very much cool
there's that's your name sorry all right
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's tech it's here
and the International Association of
Internet broadcasters why oh why would
we want to install adobe air on our
beautiful modern sleek cutting-edge
linux machine or Windows machine for
that matter or any machine fact is there
are some apps out there that really you
know you've got to have adobe air to run
them it's as simple as it is but we're
not given Adobe a lot of love these days
because adobe is not given us a lot of
love and to cancel to outright blatantly
cancel support for adobe air on linux
makes you go who you know fine i'm not
going to install it but then you find a
beautiful app like the one we're going
to look at tonight and it requires adobe
air so then you go back to the get adobe
com and you say okay fine i'll install
it and then you realize oh there's no
longer any support for the version is
about three thousand times old and it's
no longer any good can't be installed on
debian seven doesn't work so what do you
do well you fall back on the good old
wine application which allows us to
install windows programs on our linux
machine so i'm actually going to go over
to get adobe com let's go there together
to that tonight yet dot adobe.com / air
and this is going to give us what Adobe
AIR well here's what as Linux users are
talking about adobe air for linux is no
longer supported that's so nice of you
adobe so what are we going to do we're
going to pretend that we're on a
different operating system so we click
on that we say hey we're on Windows sure
we are and then we're going to choose
the latest and greatest version of Adobe
AIR version 3.7 download now do we want
to open it or do we want to save it
we're just going to simply save it save
it to our computer while that's
downloading which it's already done I'm
just going to go into my terminal and
here's what you need to do to get the
ability in Linux to install windows
applications we're gonna go sudo apt-get
install wine just like that let that run
you'll see in my particular case wine is
already the newest version I already
have this installed so I'm golden I
don't need it so that's fine what I'm
going to do I'm going to go to my
downloads folder here you go and you'll
see that now that I've downloaded the
adobe air installer it's there so I want
to show you something because this is
where sometimes we get hung up because
sometimes things don't quite work the
way that you would expect and here adobe
air is not going to be any exception
because we're not running windows it's a
windows installer we're actually running
Linux but what I'm going to do is I'm
going to double click on it now that
I've got wine or I can right click on
and go open with wine or whatever and
you'll see something interesting here
adobe air this application requires a
version of adobe air which cannot be
found so yeah which came first the
chicken or the egg chicken or the egg
scenario here folks that moment when you
don't think you're on camera like when
the guy who operates the camera
purposefully puts you there what do you
do okay Adobe AIR requires adobe air to
install that's crazy talk so how do you
get past this it's actually surprisingly
simple
what we're going to do is we're gonna go
back to our terminal here notice I'm
using terminal we can use synaptic
package manager your favorite package
manager but I'm doing this because I
want you to be familiar enough with this
that it's not an intimidating thing to
use the terminal sudo apt-get install
and here's something interesting that
we're going to need lib wine dash CMS
livw I any CMS interestingly it's it's I
believe like some kind of a color
scheming kind of deal but it includes
the stuff that's required by Adobe AIR
in order to install so now that I've
installed that see it's in wine is grab
that now I'm gonna again double-click on
Adobe AIR installer and let's see what
happens there we go that's more familiar
I agree adobe air has been successfully
installed now we're going to finish and
now let's see if it actually got
installed we're going to go into our
slash home slash Robbie slash dot wine I
don't think it's actually put it here I
think it's probably put it into our root
folder but let's find out I'm going to
go into dr see and you know where we're
going to find it as program files common
files you think that it would be under
Adobe but it's not it's going to be
under common files there it is Adobe AIR
versions one point oh and there it is
the adobe air application installer i'm
sure if wine actually puts a link to it
on our on our menu or not doesn't look
like it but we can create one easily
enough so you see how I got there and
I'm going to post links for this or
information for this textually in the
show notes for episode number 301 so
that you can follow along but now that
that's installed see I can go to my home
folder / dot wine notice that it has a
dot before it because it's a hidden
folder you're not actually going to see
it when you're looking at the Ravi
folder so you actually have to hit ctrl
L and then type in dot wine and then go
into your drive c program files common
files adobe air versions one point oh
and you'll see that adobe air
application installer so now if i double
click on that all goes well there it is
and it's asking me for my
my installer package there it is so
that's all there is to it adobe air is
installed on our linux this is debian
seven this is actually point linux okay
so now we've got the brand new latest
version 3.7 of adobe air whoo if you're
a Windows user that whole scenario is
pointless you you can just download the
installer and run it on linux though now
is it a linux problem no okay i got to
reiterate that this is not it's not so
complicated because linux made it so no
it's because adobe has said we're not
going to support linux anymore and that
was their choice and it was a one that's
we found a way to get her and we can
work around it okay folks so now here
we've got adobe air running on our linux
machine without needing a virtual
machine or anything like that so now
that we've got adobe air we can install
adobe air packages okay so whether you
are on linux now we've got the ability
to run adobe air prep programs or if
you're on Windows or you're on Mac as
long as you've got adobe air installed
from get adobe com you'll be able to run
any of these programs right so we're
going to take a look at one tonight now
that we've got that okay we're gonna go
to i'm just going to zoom in here a
little bit get clock KL ok dot com it's
felt KL ok dot com again links are going
to be in the show notes for episode
number 301 what we're looking at tonight
is the ability to actually keep track of
our time have you ever just a kind of a
rhetorical question but you can answer
if you like Rachel have you ever been
working on a project you're doing
something for a customer and whatever it
may be you can probably think of an
example for me it's websites and I'll
sit down and I'll be work and work and
working and then I realize oh I haven't
been keeping track of my time here how
long did I spend oh I think it was about
an hour not too sure or worst case
scenario you've finished a project and
you realize I
not been meticulous with my time
tracking and I know I've spent more time
than this here I've got a bill that you
know based on the time that I have
tracked is 500 bucks I know that I spent
twice that time I should be getting a
thousand bucks but I can't account for
that time well this actually this
happened to me at one of my jobs but I
could account for my time I just always
keep a record of how many hours I do on
my calendar and when I got my paycheck
it was actually seven and a half hours
off so then I went oh really I went back
and said you owe me seven and a half
hours still hmm so if I hadn't looked
over my hours I would have missed out
and given them a free day's work so
you're just marking on a physical like I
monthly count yeah I just had a calendar
in a pen I would write my family okay so
what I want to look at tonight is the
ability to actually track meticulously
not just the time that you're spending
but also the the actual work that you're
doing during that time so that I can
look back and I can actually see
everything that was done how much time
was spent doing it generate reports take
it to billing and actually invoice based
on those reports be able to create
timesheets based on whichever project
I'm doing being able to track multiple
projects and generate timesheets for
each project so that I can build them
accurately the other scenario for me is
is that quite often I end up providing
telephone support so you know the phone
rings I stop what I'm doing I pick up
the phone and I start talking to a
customer and I might spend 45 minutes on
the phone walking them through something
or I might even remote into their
computer with teamviewer or something
like that and fix the problem for them
and then never actually bill for that
time and that was a big I think Kerry
touched on it last week that that became
a really really big problem for me in
business because it's really hard to be
meticulous with that type of time really
hard to keep track of and it's really
tough to also make sure that you punch
off the clock for one project and then
start tracking for another project if
the phone rings are there's some kind of
interruption or something like that so
with this software that were going to
look at tonight which is called clock
simply KL ok it's clock too we're
actually going to be able to do exactly
what I'm explaining here
and we're going to be able to track
meticulously every little bit of detail
with regards to our projects so there is
a free version of clock if you go to get
clock calm and again for those of you
who are listening and not watching it is
KL okay calm and links will be in the
show notes for episode number 301 scroll
down a little ways and you'll see get
started with the free version you'll
also see that the commercial version is
only twenty dollars I'm going to suggest
that you actually buy the commercial
version but for tonight we're actually
going to download the free version just
to show you how it works now what's
different about the commercial version
versus the free version so the
commercial version you can see right on
their website there is a lot that comes
with the professional edition for only
20 bucks you get things like
synchronization with your mobile devices
the ability to use an enhanced dashboard
view MS exchange export if that are
import i should say if that matters to
you most important thoughts are the
things that i think are most important
is the ability to integrate your Google
Calendar customize your timesheet
layouts automate your own backups of the
software as well as you receive priority
support and that's only for twenty bucks
so it's worth it if you you grab the
free version tonight just to try it so
I'm going to download now and you'll see
that oh it's actually associated with
the adobe air application installer
that's cool that was installed with wine
but just to be safe I'm actually going
to save this file because i want to i
want to show you how i would normally do
this so i've saved that now you'll see
that the file exists in my downloads
folder okay clock to dot air so now back
in my air one point oh hold er which we
looked at a little bit earlier tonight
i'm going to double-click on the adobe
air application installer and i'm going
to simply browse to slash home slash
robbie / downloads and you'll see that
clock to dot air is now they're so i'm
going to click on that and go open and
you'll see that adobe air is going to
open up with the adobe air installer and
we can go install do we want a shortcut
on our desktop do we want to start the
application after install sure
default location is on our pro in our
program files on the virtual see dr of
wine so we're going to continue and
that's all there is to it done installed
will accept the agreement and now we are
into the trial version of clock continue
using the free version and now maximize
that to our screen we can see exactly
how that works now what i'm actually
going to do i want to show you the i
would love to show you the commercial
version so I'm just going to punch in my
key here that I have for the software
see if I can get in
and wouldn't you know I'm actually
having some trouble with the interface
on adobe air and wine oh if you could
shank too much wine before trying it
yeah yeah none of that okay let's give
it a try here clock to which is added to
my my menu give it a try ok now it's now
it's good that was kind of weird it was
like my my mouse kind of lost access to
to the interface for summer by late so
ya might be because i'm using synergy I
don't know so we'll just pretend you
adit that out with your brain alright so
under tools preferences now I can enter
my license key here so I'm gonna do that
without the that's what I wanted to do
without you actually seeing my license
key here so just gonna quickly enter
that what what you looking at the top of
my head making fun of me alright add a
debt why did you guys use such long keys
here folks ok I'm going to activate its
activating and it is active there we go
so now I've got a full version of clock
ok so under tools preferences now i'm
skipping over the general tab because of
the fact that it does reveal in plain
text my license code you can change your
data file location so you can store it
on a network drive something like that
which is actually what i do i use i'm
using a samba mount through cifs I've
got a mount on a network nast device and
I'm storing my data files there so that
if I ever have a computer crash it's ok
because it's on a redundant storage
device that gets backed up every night
ok so formatting here we go we've got
our 12 our 24-hour mode we've got the
date layouts and things like that how
many projects do you want to remember I
would just set that to something hi
myself snapping I would leave off that's
for your calendar appearance what do you
want it to look like do you want it to
look like the night look that it has
right now or do you want it to be
blue instead you can do whatever you
like those are included with the
application software updates you can
check automatically plugins with the pro
version you can actually add plugins and
connectors and things like that and you
can also export your timesheets and
change your timesheet layout which is
really really cool you can generate your
own output from the software so that it
can conform to your your process and the
way that you do things your backups a
game this is the professional edition so
you can actually set it up to
automatically backup every X number of
days and you can tell it where you would
like to store the backups as well which
again I would recommend we put those on
some kind of outside drive put it on a
samba share or an SSH drive or something
that's outside of the current you know
your existing computer okay from there
do you want it to start when the user
logs in handy if you're going to have a
dedicated time tracking computer which i
actually do interestingly enough the way
that I do it is that i have i've got a
little 14 inch monitor and i've got
several monitors on my desk but i just
happen to have a little 14 inch monitor
that is absolutely useless for anything
because it's so small perfect for time
tracking so i've got that off to the
side and i've got an old old computer
running there just something that we
found in the back and that is running
clock 24 7 at my desk then i use synergy
to be able to use my mouse back and
forth between the two systems so that is
you know for me startup options start
when the user logs in is pretty handy
and I've got my computer automatically
log in and it's brilliant okay so now
that we are done setting up our software
you notice that there's no Save button
or anything like that i'm gonna click on
week view up at the top and you see
because i was clicking randomly I've
actually created a bunch of empty
projects here I'm just going to delete
those all right
I'm sometimes having a little bit of
interface trouble I don't think that
that's a clock issue because I haven't
had that issue before so what I'm going
to do I'm going to add by clicking this
Add button up here I'm going to actually
add a project so now you see I've got a
few here but new project at the bottom
here so what we're doing now is we're
actually creating our first project that
we're going to track so Rachel what kind
of work would you be tracking would you
be like what would you do that you might
want to track this meticulously um
painting I do murals and stuff ok so
let's say so if you were gonna paint me
a mural so let's say this project down
to this second yes fill me by the hour
ok let's say Robbie's studio mural let's
just say that that's what you wanted to
call it and then you could say ok it's
billable this is important whether it's
available or not because it's actually
going to give you approximations as to
what you're owed which is very very
handy and then based on the hourly rate
of what do you charge maybe six hundred
dollars an hour let's say it's 60 bucks
an hour just for kicks ok of course I'm
your favorite so you would check that
off the other thing that you that you
can do here is you can go to properties
and you can change the color and the
reason that you do that is so that each
individual item or each individual
project has its own color within your
your time clock you can estimate how
much time this is going to take so that
if you think that it's going to be about
a hundred hours it's going to let you
know if you're approaching that or that
kind of thing contact name contact email
contact phone number all that stuff can
be stored here as well everything else
is currently empty because I haven't
actually done any work here ok so now
back in my week view again nothing is
there yet so now I can actually right
click on that and I can go ad a
sub-project so now as a part of Robbie's
mural Robbie studio mural we're going to
create a new sub project we're going to
call this prime
and we're going to create that sub
project so now we've got Robbie studio
mural priming what else would you do for
a painting add another sub project to
that will we say design or mock-up maybe
you would call it sketching it out kind
of thing yeah design and then the actual
painting painting clean up right going
to the store and getting materials yeah
so notice we're kind of planning this
out yeah going to the store as well so
all those things could be accounted for
so we could call this extra store visits
cleanup etc stuff that you may not
charge for but you want to still keep
track of separately ok so now ok so now
it's time to start priming so I can
actually highlight priming notice that
we've actually kind of planned this out
so we know that these are a few of the
different things but at any time
throughout the course of the project if
you start doing something else you can
then create another sub project and you
can do that at any time that you don't
have to do that at the beginning so
we're going to start priming at a press
start and you'll see in my calendar now
so we are actually tuesday jun 25th and
it is approximately what time is it
probably about 7 27 so there we are just
before seven thirty you see that it's
there so now we've got this little time
thing here you can see that it's
actually working its way into the
calendar up at the top it tells me it
reminds me what it is that I'm working
on right now so I'm working on priming
so now what I want to do is I can either
click here to add a comment to this ok
or add anywhere in the calendar once
you've got entries in here I can
actually just point to it you see a add
a comment this entry right there so I
can add a comment and we can say initial
priming of the wall there we go and then
save and so all this stuff is happening
instantly so if I go project view and go
to the time entries you can see that
that time entry is already here and it's
already tracking it's only five minutes
so
and it's it's going up from there and as
you go obviously it's going to be
tracking everything that you do so if
you miss something let's stop that
project so I click on the stop button
here I can actually add something to the
to the the timeline here that I maybe I
missed and I can set the start time the
end time the date and the comments so
you know I can move that around if I
happen to miss it and I can say okay
here we go update that save it and now
if you look at your dashboard you're
going to start to see something
interesting you're seeing some graphs
you're seeing now we only have Robbie
studio mural as a current project if you
had more than one project of course
you're going to see some really awesome
graphs you get some bar graphs and some
charts you see the pie chart there as
well so you can see how you're utilizing
your time and I actually keep track of
everything from the client work that I'm
doing to my lunch breaks to whatever
else so that I can get a really good
look at what it is that I'm doing
throughout the day and what's billable
and what's not and what's cool too
because I add projects that are not
billable so my lunches and things that
I'm like internal work if I'm working on
our own website things like that so then
I can actually generate reports you'll
see that clock will allow me to generate
a an overview of billable as well as non
billable so if something is non billable
I can actually see on a graph that I'm
spending too much time doing
non-billable stuff and I should be doing
more available stuff so that I can equal
that out and it helps me personally so
that i can i can kind of i try to keep a
pair i guess like a fair amount of paid
work versus the amount of internal work
that I'm doing if I'm doing invoicing or
quoting I want to do an equivalent
amount of billable work I'm just
imagining your chart it's like five
hours of eating a sandwich nothing like
that no no it's nothing like that but I
throughout the day you know my calendar
looks fairly full because I'm tracking
meticulously every single project that
I've got so on my left hand column and
you can do this too with clock is you
can add
little project that you're working on
here so for my lunch break i might add
and that's just a silly little thing but
i like to keep track of everything and
i'm going to put lunch and is it
billable know and then i'm gonna go
there and i can say okay now i'm going
to start lunch and now i'm on lunch and
it'll tell me when my lunch break is up
because I'm actually seeing a little
timer there that tells me that I'm at
five minutes and when I'm at thirty or
an hour or whatever I know hey time to
end my lunch alright so that's just a
really quick dive into clock and and how
we can time track using this amazing
software and then we can generate all
these timesheets and reports I mean
fantastic that we can go and we can you
know generate these timesheets as I
showed you a little bit earlier you can
you can create basically your own
template how you want it to look how you
want it to output and everything is
output there and then you can export it
to an Excel spreadsheet which is handy
for me I send it out to the billing
department and then they put together
all the orders and everything like that
so fantastic piece of software I talked
to them and I say oh what's with adobe
air and are you sticking with that and
they did mention that they are working
on an html5 version of clock but it's a
it's a long ways off but there is that
in the plan so it's not something that's
going to die off with Adobe AIR it's
something that they are actively
developing and working on and it is
growing and getting better and better
all the time so you don't have to worry
about that check it out it is again it's
only twenty dollars for the full
professional edition it is get clock
spelled KL ok.com check it out today get
the free version and get yourself into
it just to figure out if a that maybe
this is a great solution for you and for
me it really is about keeping track of
my time so that i can get paid for the
time that i'm spending so that every
time i get interrupted i'm clocking that
and i'm able to keep track and i'm able
to bill for that time so and it works i
mean i'm on debian seven here point
linux and it works great works
fantastically well and you know the
problem is is you eat once your
transitioned on to debian seven now if
you're not using gnome 3
hamster app is gone hamster app has gone
in general because it was a known to app
so you lose the ability to track with
that here's an excellent alternative for
linux mac or windows so enjoy enjoy
enjoy this is category 5 technology TV
our website is down there category five
dot TV I'm Robbie Ferguson I'm Rachel
shoot Rachel what do you got alrighty so
it's time for some news I know you're
all excited about this you make a sound
so exciting Rachel wow I Tom SWA minsky
commence well so minutes so much for
getting any work done this summer the
revered platform shooter game portal has
been in a linux betta since early May
but starting today portal for linux is
stable and available to buy buy all um
if you already own a copy of portal for
windows you'll be able to find a linux
version i'm already available for
download in your steam for linux library
anyone else anyone else wanting in on
the fun come by portal for just ten
dollars nice so have you tried it is
that i haven't yet unreal this is just
like this is like today it's got to be
19 in use have you been my mortal on
another you know but I know about it and
I think it's unreal do you test both
portal has like you shoot don't you
create portals and and then you can
travel from one position to the other
kind of thing with the same velocity
same Momentum's all that can stuff I've
never do you remember we actually
started developing a game and this kind
of reminds do you remember it oh the
cheese yet the cheese teleport you can
actually find it on YouTube idea it
seems kind of like that teleport was our
game that we started in the when did we
do that we started developing this back
that was like seven years ago some and
when was portal made
I their study them in it it's got to be
a I want my money yeah so $10 your cell
on this thing for hey no we actually
of reminds me of it but that's so cool
this kind of reminds you of it with way
bigger budget and skills are everything
bars did never quite get that far yeah
it was playable but not we didn't get to
building the world's and all that quite
yet we had it on paper it was pretty
comical all right yeah yeah so South
Korea has issued a cyber alert for an
apparent coordinated hacking attack on
government websites this morning the
incident came on the anniversary of the
start of the Korean War which divided
the Korean Peninsula referring to the
presidential office the science ministry
gave a statement this morning saying the
government can confirm a cyber attack by
unidentified hackers that shut down
several sites including the blue house
the website for the office for
government policy coordination and some
media servers was also said to be
affected by the attack hmm scary stuff
alright and also we have thousands of
free Linux cities are to be distributed
to citizens of Munich City Germany in
the spring of next year courtesy of its
City Council nice lubuntu I think it's
reboot too lubuntu is the lxde version
of ubuntu so it's kind of similar to the
windows layout feels a lot like windows
see if i can find a screen screengrab
for you at some point but it's it's cool
so lubuntu disks will be made available
as a replacement for windows XP
microsoft's 11 year old operating system
for which support officially ends in
april of next year it's estimated that
some 20 million German PC users are
still running in Windows XP and rather
than see all those pcs end up as a way
city council decide to breathe new life
into the old systems complete with
education and help with the migration to
Linux that's cool the cost of the city
will be somewhere near 4,000 euros from
the printing of the disk to literature
and promotions with local businesses
Munich is no stranger to alternative IT
thinking having transitioned around
13,000 of its government pcs to lenox
around 10 years ago so maybe you'll get
more people watching your show how on
earth do we lose this new stuff that how
it works how how do we use Lubuntu i
don't know let's go check in with robbie
all right and we also have awesome no no
I'm excited about that because then
we've got actual government organization
saying hey don't upgrade to Windows 8
don't grab windows seven here have this
for free that's a really exciting thing
and when people realize that hey I don't
have to necessarily replace my computer
I don't have to ewaste it or have it rot
away in a landfill for 10 billion
gazillion years can finally why do I
threw it away if you could just upgrade
that's what I think that's the point
though is the Microsoft is that because
XP is done right yeah so I couldn't you
just upgrade to Windows 8 Windows 7 no
not on the next p machine that's the
thing is that they won't support it
right so you you have to either get a
new machine or find an alternative and
the government is saying here's an
alternative it's Lubuntu it will work on
your old hardware because Lubuntu lxde
is gonna work really really well on even
an old old old computer because it's
really lightweight so breathe new life
into your old machine there you go Allah
Munich what else you got for us let me
see hmm for all you Facebook users out
there personal details about 6 million
people have been inadvertently exposed
by a bug in Facebook's data archive
yikes the bug meant email telephone
numbers were accidentally shared with
people who would not otherwise have
access to the information an
investigation into the bug showed that
contact details for about 6 million
people were advertently shared to spice
this facebook played down the
significance of the exploit and said the
practical impact had been small because
information was most likely to have been
shared with people
already knew the effect it give me a
break come on yeah so if you had any
like creepy stalkers after you they know
well where you are we met at the pub one
night so it's okay for them to have my
home phone number and address and email
and sure facebook come on yeah they're
just trying to downplay it so people
absolutely no that's the thing is like
to say oh we fixed it it's fine nothing
happened to 6 million people's
information but it's out there and if
I'm not mistaken that quote most likely
it was kind of the impression is most
likely was people that knew them yeah
that's the quote I mean Rob alone this
week you've had what ten million phone
calls ten all is millions from only six
million exploits come on facebook all
right so what do we do okay our Facebook
privacy is compromised again Facebook
downplays it and says oh it's no big
deal the person probably knew you anyway
there isn't probably know the person
ever that's the attitude that they have
I don't know if I can trust that well
it's not the first or the last time so
true enough true enough just watch what
you put on there I guess what would you
do oh it's still there all right good so
from the super creepy files Oh a charity
is advising users that their webcam
should be covered when not used because
hackers could be using them to spy on
people child net International says
webcam should be disconnected when not
in use and teenagers should not leave
webcams and bedrooms or other private
areas a BBC radio 5 live investigation
found sites where hackers exchange
pictures and videos of people captured
on their own webcams without their
knowledge there was a 20 year old female
student from Glasgow who had been was a
part-time job in a computer shop and she
believed she was the victim
of webcam hacking she said she spotted
the camera on her laptop had turned
itself on while she was watching a DVD
in the bath so a police supposed to look
like spokeswoman said webcam hackers
would be prosecuted if they could never
be caught but yeah that's scary stuff
you know the little I don't know look at
your laptop is it a laptop right now the
little light at the top see that little
thing at the top there that's a camera
looking straight at you as you look at
the thing and that's a really scary
thought that sitting in a bathtub I hope
it was a bubble bath but seriously
that's frightening well fortunately they
were smart and a lot of your laptops and
stuff bring up your bring up your webcam
software and see if it happens the light
turns on so that you know that the
webcam is turned on even your your
actual physical webcams a lot of times
have a built-in light so that you know
that it turned on I just put on one of
those little those little circle
stickers yeah if you never use my face
swap the sticker on it yeah I suppose
you could but that I don't know there
are advantages to having access to your
webcam well your lap just peel it off if
you want to use it right but if someone
stole your laptop and the webcam was
covered you wouldn't be able to see who
they are it'd be nice if someone stole
your laptop that you could be able to do
what the hackers are doing and that is
to look at the camera well for the most
the majority of people wouldn't catch
anything very exciting yeah I mean for
me I mean it'd be like cat is the laptop
you could it could it be done with I
don't think it could with like a mobile
device on but these things have cameras
too and they do not have a light I
suppose somebody could program an app to
use the kit the web is like the camera
and you'd be unsuspectingly using your
phone and set your phone on the charger
and be doing whatever else in front of
your phone yeah well the laptop is
scarier though because it you usually
have it pointed at yourself because like
like you say you're watching DVD
watching a category 5 TV in your
underwear never good practice never good
practice oh I think though that she must
have had a disgruntled boyfriend who
installed some kind of tracking software
something
somebody had to put something on that
loud I know she was in the bass at that
moment and they were turning it on she
probably is one of the lazy book I'm
going to have a bad yeah why do people
do this right I'm going to get a have a
bath and then you know ex-boyfriend who
installed this software on her laptop
today here's an opportunity to turn on
the webcam that sounds most likely to me
because it seems like a if somebody has
to install something into your computer
but it happens I mean you can
accidentally install Trojans and things
in your computer but the really again
tells you you need to have up-to-date
antivirus on a Windows machine another
thing you got to watch out for that I've
seen before is people install these
programs that memorized all the keys
keystrokes keystrokes are you don't on
someone's computer you don't really know
that well or something you just borrow
it and go into your email or do banking
or anything they can go back and it says
everything that's been tight right by
user all your nation passwords
everything I've seen that on computers
before that's why I got to be careful
and when you're using like an internet
terminal at a public cafe you don't know
what they're doing there if somebody's
installed a keylogger or something like
that you can actually buy devices to USB
devices that plug into your computer and
then you plug the keyboard into that so
then everything that is typed on the
keyboard actually gets stored on a
microchip on that device so then
somebody puts that in the library
computer somebody comes in and uses it
to do their online banking because it's
free and then they come back a couple
days later in the unplug it plug the
keyboard back in and they've got all
your your stuff right there that's kind
of scary to lots of different ways that
you could be exploited we're just here
to scare you and to make you wiser so
that you know what to watch out for
alrighty so if you want the full stories
you can go to category 5 TV / newsroom
and the category 5 TV news room is
researched by roy w Nash with
contributions by our community of
viewers if you have a new store you
think is worthy of on a are mentioned
email newsroom at category five dot TV
for the category 5 TV news room I'm
Rachel's shoe thanks Rachel tonight's
show is brought to you in part by
netflix cat five dot TV / netflix will
get you a
free one month trial of the service you
can run it on your wii u can run it on
your device on your ps3 whatever you're
using you can actually watch the shows
right there on your devices on your
computer on your tablet whatever it will
work for you it's fantastic get it for
free for a month cat5 TV / netflix also
tonight that hurt your ears sorry I hurt
my category 5 technology TV is brought
to you in part by nettalk duo Wi-Fi it's
best we could do Nelson no seriously
check this thing out if you haven't got
one yet you got to go out and grab one
these things are fantastic it will fit
in your bag so you know if you're going
to be going to a hotel anywhere in the
world okay so you activate this in
Canada activated in the US and then take
it with you everywhere here okay so I
activate this here and Barry right so
Barrie Ontario Canada here we are
activate one of these nettalk duo life
eyes and now pack that away go to Europe
go to wherever I want to go anywhere in
the world and as long as I've got a
high-speed internet connection of the
hotel wherever I am I now have my berry
phone right there with me ah so I'm
actually able to call you here in berry
as a local call you can call me even
though I'm in China and it's a local
call so next time you're traveling
taking that talk to a Wi-Fi with you and
you will have your local home phone
number and all those facebook people can
now call you as well you can go in the
world fantastic great for when the kids
go away to school because it's free
phone calling for mom and dad to be able
to touch base with the kids and see
what's going on and how they're doing
listening on the parties but this device
I mean if you pay it's it's kind of like
if you give me 60 bucks guys give me 60
bucks but here's the catch i'm going to
give you seven hundred dollars a year
forever good deal right so you buy the
device you know it starts at forty five
bucks but i would probably get the
higher end you know it runs about sixty
seventy dollars kind of idea
and then for all time as long as you
renew it you never have to pay a phone
bill again the cost of two cups of
coffee per per month oh i thought you
find in general are you getting your
coffee and cups of coffee per month who
doesn't drink that much coffee and
you've got your phone service unlimited
calling Canada the US anytime and it's
free no long-distance calls gotta love
it thats nettalk from cat five dot TV /
phone check them out go and grab one of
those devices and then you can call the
studio here tell us how much you love
the show and it will be a local call for
you how much do you love that all right
this is category 5 technology TV i'm
your host Robbie ferguson thanks for
joining us tonight Rachel alright so we
have some of your questions now and this
one is from masterminds eh masterminds
eh what's up um he says hi Ravi short
time fan here I just like to say you're
great and entire show is just awesome I
even like the episodes where you do
something technical even though I know
most of it show off isn't that every
episode you technicals um you're also an
amazing singer oh dear how much did you
pay this guy I really gotta stop sending
email to myself I'm blushing and that is
kind of what this question is about okay
so I know you have a youtube channel
where you sing so would it be alright if
I downloaded some of those songs for
private and maybe some communities or is
there some other way to support by your
music I'd also like to ask you if Eric
Kidd has any media me sells his music
true because I really like his music as
well cool and yen please forward this
email to Eric because I think he's just
awesome that's so nice that's literally
in the email and probably said just like
she said it that's very kind thank you
yeah Eric and I both have music out
there eric has recorded some stuff in
the show but I've got big news something
that's in the works you're going to love
this mastermind zoo
here's the thing Eric Kidd is currently
in the process of putting together a
concert that is going to be broadcast
right here on category 5 TV live so make
sure you watch for that announcement
this is not the official announcement
but what we're doing is we're actually
setting up a full evening concert you'll
be able to tune in live you'll be able
to donate and you will receive a copy of
the music in mp3 format so he will also
have CDs for sale all that kind of stuff
so that's something exciting that's in
the works that is really not really
related to the technological end of the
show but it's a way that we're you know
giving back to our volunteers by
supporting Eric Kidd we love him and
he's been a great asset to the team so
you know we want to do that for him and
for you the viewers who are fans of
their kid for my music go ahead and
download it all you want and actually
i'll post some links in the show notes
for episode 301 if you want download the
CD for free as well or you can donate if
you like to and that money will go
toward the show so thanks for the email
cheers alrighty we have another one here
from Steve hey Steve he says I think
that a tablet can also be a laptop and a
desktop with a couple of USB ports type
a standard and HDMI port for the monitor
or TV I use a 220 dollar 32 inch TV as a
monitor for my laptop as my monitor via
USB port why they don't have these ports
on tablets is beyond me also when OLEDs
come out you could have a cylinder
computer like a paper towel cardboard
center on each end you can have USB and
HDMI ports the 0 le D would wrap around
the cylinder so the oleds screen would
not be bent too much and break it would
be a gentle curve you could wear the
computer hanging off your belt and I
noticed the new blackberry phone has a
USB and HDMI port great idea I wish they
had used a standard size USB the micro
USB cord is hard to find but you could
hook your phone into your TV and
keyboard making it a full-scale computer
mmm yeah no I mean with Android and so
on it really is an OS when you're used
to these kind of devices they're called
it's the one with that thing on the back
one with the thing on yeah you see that
that little icon right there that
basically means we're not giving you
anything that we can't sell you later
however my acer tablet which i'm looking
at right here Rachel can see it I know
you can't see it at home and I can't
really pull it out to show you because
it actually operates the theme music
here the show so I can trigger it like
that that tablet has full you know it's
USB full-size USB it has also micro USB
it has hdmi video output it has the
works I mean it's all there and it's a
dockable and you can get a keyboard for
it so it works just like a computer and
its Android and so it does work quite
well for that so don't think the tablets
don't already have that is just these
devices with that little logo on the
back they don't because they want to
upsell you in a couple years so that you
can keep upgrading and upgrading and
given them your money but when you get
into more open stuff stuff that's based
on Android and and you know my acer
tablet like I say it's already got all
that stuff so it's expandable how many
times have I plugged in how nice is it
that I can plug in a USB keyboard and do
this on the internet or plug in a USB
flash drive and bring up my photos don't
have to email them to my ipod right or
sink them through itunes that's even
worse or you know you get an air mouse
like this and you plug it in and now
you're going like this on your tablet or
a regular mouse whatever you want so
yeah it's fantastic and then plug it in
with hdmi to your 52 inch TV how do you
like that I wish hmm or you're like 30
inch TV mine's like a 27 inch CRT so
don't feel too bad mm-hmm alright so
hello category 5 I look in your video
and wore a cast how to set it up I
really had many problems and I hope that
you can helped me first it's really try
I would tell you what my goal is and who
I am my name is Sebastian hey Sebastian
and I'm from Denmark and I'm 23 year
olds 23 years old a photographer
cameraman in my spare time I take the
video to part celebrations and there are
many who have asked if I can send it
live and I cannot because i do not know
how to okay i'm fresh on new ideas and
new technologies i've agreed with the
owner of the room it is okay to put the
camera up and he gave the green light so
my objective I put three microsoft
lifecam studio webcams up to be
activated when my laptop is with me and
must be able to record live at parties
okay I have one piece 15-inch macbook
pro one piece access to din dns pro with
14 dags trial period okay ah maybe okay
days maybe yeah 1pc Wirecast with 14 day
trial period to test if it works I would
use macbooks webcam to start with okay
how to start and what din DNS is used
for my rival who has a website ww2 photo
live DK send from your laptop to the
network but he uses din dns i do not
know why i hope you would help me
sebastian i think i grasp what you're
saying ok if i follow the email
correctly and forgive me if i'm wrong
but it sounds like maybe like a club or
some kind of party facilities something
they want to be able to film and
broadcast live parties be it even a
venue maybe the you know people can rent
and come in and the party can be
broadcast on the internet for people who
can't be there which is pretty cool and
Wirecast is great for that so if I if I
may I'm just going to come up on your
screen here so that I can see okay so
you got a macbook pro cool you're using
three microsoft microsoft lifecam studio
cameras because you saw them used during
my tutorial the difference between you
and I here Sebastian is that in my
tutorial I'm sitting in a studio under
these great lights I don't know if you
can see them see these things so we've
got these great big massive
Suns in our faces and that is why we're
able to use webcams in a party venue
you're most likely people are going to
get really upset with you if you put one
of these in their face and so a webcam
is literally not going to give you the
frame rate that you're going to need
because what happens with a webcam and
and the microsoft lifecam cinema studio
there no exception is that if you don't
have enough natural light or light
provided by natural balance like these
are 50 50 500 k so if you don't have
that then it's going to bring down the
frame rate to be able to bring up the
brightness so then all of a sudden
people are moving like this in the video
and it's horrible not really usable for
your scenario what you need is you need
to do something differently your macbook
I'm not sure if it's going to be able to
do it in this kind of environment if
it's fast enough you didn't mention how
old the macbook is you might be able to
get like a if you've got Thunderbolt you
could get an external black magic
intensity device which will allow you to
plug in one hdmi camera and then you can
get a hand camera like a camcorder that
has hdmi output and that will be able to
work in full frame rate 30 to 60 frames
a second if you are streaming in a dark
room that's okay it will be able to
compensate a lot better than a webcam
well so that's my biggest concern is the
camera so the dindi and that's thing I
don't think you need that the reason
that you would need that is if somebody
is connecting to you with Wirecast
you're going to be sending the stream
out you can be sending it to you stream
you're going to be sending them to lie
justin TV or YouTube and when it gets
there that's where you send your viewers
to watch it you're your rival as you say
is using a different technique they're
actually hosting a server on their
system and they're using the Indian
asked to allow people to connect to them
and download the the live feed from them
the problem with that is that you are
very very limited by the internet
service that's provided the venue so if
they've got like a high-speed internet
connection it's probably not fast enough
to be able to host a full event like
that if you've got one two three four
viewers so you tap into some
external you don't need in DNS basically
so I hope that helps with your question
feel free to email us more details but I
think your biggest thing is going to be
the camera those are probably not going
to work very well in a dark environment
so good luck Wirecast is the right
choice it's going to work real well for
you cat five dot TV / Wirecast all the
time we have Rachel rock on yay 301 yes
we made it through another one episode
fantastic 99 to go I do they're really
quietly that time cuz I gave me a
headache oh not to be nice to me this
time yes that's why alrighty well nice
to be back and say hi to you all have a
good week have a fantastic week
everybody will see you next Tuesday
night and Eric kid is here where we got
some exciting things planned for you
we're gonna be talking more about the
music as well Rachel great to see ya
thanks for coming check out after calm
night everybody
we hope you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven pm eastern
if you're watching this on demand or
through cable TV check out the local
show times in your area at category 5 TV
and find out when you can watch live and
interact in the community chat room
category 5 is a production of prodigy
digital solutions and is licensed under
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
