there we are folks
the newer newer how you gotta say it
right newer end w88 - so this is only 16
dollars on Amazon my friends let's get
into the box and see what it comes with
so when I was on Amazon looking for a
cheap microphone this came in as pretty
much the cheapest one that you can
possibly get she's ooh sixteen dollars
for this and now it's a condenser
microphone so it does require phantom
power and you'll see some reviews on
Amazon that will say oh it has so much
noise and all that those people don't
know what phantom power is a guarantee
you have to power this microphone so you
have to have a special kind of mixing
console that has power for this
microphone so if you plug it directly
into a computer it's gonna it's not
going to work you're gonna have to crank
it up which is going to generate a whole
lot of noise because it doesn't your
computer doesn't provide power to the
microphone this is where I think that
confusion starts because they have
provided an XLR to 8-inch microphone
adapter this looks like it would be
compatible with a laptop computer so you
plug it into your laptop computer you
plug this into the microphone and you
start testing it and it sounds like
garbage well your laptop computer does
not provide phantom power something like
a zoom h4n it would provide phantom
power over this cable however this is
pretty much useless to the average user
because you may not have that device so
you have to have you have to have a
preamp for this that has phantom power
so watch for that
you're gonna need if you don't already
have it you're gonna need something to
work between this and the computer so
you can get fairly cheap like $49
preamps so you're gonna need one of
those anyways here at the studio of
course we've got preamps here so it
looks really nice it feels like it's a
metal microphone and w88 too from new
air newer
it looks like it has a mic on the back
but it actually doesn't but it has the
pop screen right built into the
microphone see that
so that's further your papa so that they
don't pop the microphone make a big pop
noise for $16 remember this kit okay we
get everything that you see here comes
with an it's a sealed bag comes with a
shock mount now I use a rode nt1
microphone this would be perfectly
compatible with that so you can use this
with any studio microphone you just pop
your microphone in here and what that
does is it absorbs some of the vibration
that's going to be on the floor from you
moving your feet things like that as
this sits on the stand so that piece in
and of itself is worth more than I paid
for this kit which is pretty impressive
so even if I just wanted it for that and
then I've got the extra extra microphone
to use because who knows how this is
going to function right specifications
wise I mean they do boast that it's 20
to 20,000 Hertz
it's a unidirectional cardioid pickup
pattern so what that means if we look at
the head of the microphone so I'm gonna
be talking singing voicing into this
part here with the pop screen and so the
polar pattern is going to be in this
shape so it's right in front of it
anything behind it it's not going to
pick it up because the polar pattern is
going forward it's unidirectional
cardioid polar pattern so that's gonna
work really really well even I think in
our studio here where we've got some fan
noise and things like that we'll be able
to cut that out fairly easily certainly
in a home studio environment that works
really well I'm gonna move back to the
studio set here bring a couple of pieces
with me I think the most challenging
aspect of that microphone is the name
this is the type of microphone that I
brought I'm just gonna call it the NW
eight 8/2 it's a really yeah it's a
funny funny name for sure it's a brand
that is available on Amazon and they
have a fair number of pretty good little
devices it's pretty miscellaneous it's
located made in China stuff but they
have pretty good products
so that's okay no I'm just thinking the
curiosity is could it possibly be good
enough to use this is the question this
is the question the question so we can
tighten that up you see that now the
shock mount moves around yeah so I can
adjust that perfectly based on where my
stand is position and then that's just
gonna pop right in there pop screen is
that what it's called up here yeah on
the microphone itself so as I'm laying
down from fat Rimes it's not gonna take
the cording videos right it's just a
little bit in like the more expensive
ones the ones that are like mm like box
em right yeah big flat thing yeah and
you can buy them so that it clips onto
the stand and it sits in front of the
microphone but that's another $20 to add
to the kit this one's got it built-in
and there's sixteen dollars for
everything now it doesn't include the
stand obviously this stand is my own so
you will need a stand you can put it on
a desktop stand if you want as long as
it's got the ability to screw into a mic
stand I did notice that in the Box there
I don't know if you saw it we can
probably see no we can't there's a
little black piece in the box that will
adapt this to the two different sizes of
mic stand so it came with that adapter
as well should we give it a try I'm
going to just kind of put this right
here
and I need to get a cable and we'll need
to turn off your headset microphone
because everything that you're gonna
hear is going to be from this microphone
alright good good okay all right I'm
gonna I'm gonna disconnect all of our
microphones so you're not gonna hear our
headsets anymore everything's going to
come from this as soon as I plug in that
cable yeah all right okay sure and I can
disconnect mine because we're gonna plug
into my mic cable here
[Music]
testing testing 2 4 6 Mic Check 1 2 3 5
4 3 when you put them all together then
you got a lot of game you don't have to
worry about the quality of sound it's
gonna be great if it's coming from the
ground I'm gonna start small but we're
gonna stand tall we're gonna say it
right
turn with the mic we're gonna start
small but we're gonna stand tall was
gonna say you're right gotta start with
the mic what Suzanne my ex and soundless
you like that sound that you'd like
gotta start with that bike voices and
mites and things that you like got a
sound that you like got a start without
Mike you don't got a mic then you got no
sound and if you ain't got no sound and
you can't be found well if you don't
like this Mike a sixteen dollar by won't
be too hard on your wallet so hey give
it a try more importance that your Mike
is that as a rapper you're alright that
your lyrics are important and what you
mean is out of sight gotta say what you
want gotta say what you like and to do
those things you need a dang good but
we've gotta start small but we're gonna
stand tall gotta say right
we gotta start small but we're gonna
stand tall got a singer right voices and
might extend things that you like that
telling you lies gotta start with that
mic voices the head Mike said that yes
you like that sound that you like you
gotta start with that light Oh was that
worth $16 please send your comments
through yeah comment below I think God's
great starting point for sure yeah what
a world we live in
yeah very cool you can get yours at cat5
dot TV slash mic check it out it's only
sixteen bucks or so so let us know what
you think
[Applause]
