what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Robbie
Ferguson welcome to episode number 184
of category 5 technology TV it is so
nice to have you here and good to see it
tonight we are going to be resuming our
very special feature about web
development so stick around I've got a
lot of stuff going on lots of people
here in the studio with us John good to
see you behind the camera nice to have
you here machine gun he's back good to
see you we also have Krista who's
joining us here hello hey Krista as well
as as you hear over there Eric with the
deep voice the short fat guy with the
pogoplug shirt I'm here here he is and
Hilary and how are you tonight who me
yeah I'm great I think she can get this
thing what's coming up in the news
tonight o people you better hang on to
your socks here because coming up in the
newsroom the popular travel advice site
TripAdvisor has been compromised by
super cybercriminal hook and its users
can expect to get an increased amount of
span as their email addresses have been
stolen from the service
facebook is cracking down on underage
users and if you're under 18 they want
you out it could mean automatic
suspension of your account and loss of
all farming and mafia asset in what some
would call ironic hacking my SQL calm
was owned by a SQL injection attack
details were revealed on Sunday and i'll
be telling you all about and lastly in
some cool tech news a fully transparent
TV from samsung might make a great
window but what to do if the
neighborhood kid throws a ball right
through it so you can stick around for
these stories cuz they're coming up in
30 minutes awesome thanks hell nice to
see you thanks I'm glad I'm here yeah
hey to our chat room as well we've got
lots of people there Hilary are you
joining us in the chat room I believe so
okay well if not that's my dropping of a
hint so I she'll be joining us there so
if you want to say hi to Hillary she'll
be right there in the chat room category
5 TV hey nice to see d man 810 as well
as gadwal office we've got JV SCC
joining us ah there's Hillary joining us
with chat room as well Chris Reich and
Eric Kidd Eric it's nice to see you it's
been a few weeks it's nice to be seen
you know you get to this ages it's good
to be seen Eric I we've what we've done
here is we've set up the old studio
where where we used to have the newsroom
and just getting everything set up and
good to go so I think generally speaking
we're all right tonight as far as that
goes cameras over your right side here
so that's where she's at i'm all
showered up and everything and they put
me in a whole separate studio i think
yours i don't know it figures the one
night that he cleans himself off easy a
penniless and quite kind of distant from
us Robbie oh it's so nice to see
everybody joining us and we're gonna
have a lot of fun tonight lots to cover
I know we've got lots of your questions
as well so we can take it away if you
want to hit me up with some viewer
questions there Eric sorry it was just
some somebody pointed out that I look
pretty too so
I feel pretty oh sorry um what's going
into some questions that was a question
we have a question here from well I'm
gonna say it could be Barbie cube with y
on the end but we're not completely sure
it's a Windows 7 operating system and
the question is bluetooth on Windows 7 I
just had hard time trying to make my
bluetooth adapter work I had paired a
bluetooth mouse and my blackberry storm
suddenly I think I pushed the pairing
mode button on my mouse the most doesn't
work neither does the blackberry the
devices are listed on the control panel
but they just don't connect there's no
remove device option either should we
keep trusting on Bluetooth devices on
Windows 7 thanks ah I don't think there
should be a problem with windows 7 as
long as your device's working is is
actually compatible with windows 7 of
course if it's an older device being
that your windows 7 box is quite
possibly 64-bit maybe there's not a
driver installed maybe there's something
going on there if that's not the case if
it is actually detecting the Bluetooth
the actual dongle that you're using or
the the bluetooth wireless adapter thing
then what that could be just to just
throw in something out there's it's just
to make sure that it's that your devices
are not already paired with another
device you mentioned you've got both a
blackberry and the wireless mouse both
bluetooth so just make sure that in the
off chance that that mouse is not
currently paired to your blackberry
because if that was the case then it may
have trouble detecting when when you try
to when you try to connect that to two
windows just throwing something out
there but as far as trusting windows 72
to work with your ear bluetooth I don't
see any issues with that as long as your
bluetooth dongle is compatible with
windows 7 that said they're extremely
inexpensive these days so if you do find
that you know do some searching get the
get the model number of your of your
device itself and and then determine if
if it is going to be compatible
typically windows seven should pretty
much detect any device out of the box
like as soon as you plug it in but there
are the Ottomans the off chance that it
might not so if that's the case then you
know get on the get on the web find out
if you can find the the driver itself
for windows 7 from the manufacturer of
the device and if not like I say they're
inexpensive so pass that one along to to
a family or friend who's still using
Windows XP or potentially someone who
has who has linux as well because a lot
of those devices will work on linux even
if they won't work on windows 7 so and
then you just pick up a cheap one at
your local Super Center as well I would
make sure that you power cycle
everything before you do anything
radical sometimes it just needs a little
you know kicked actually yeah are you
talking about Windows 7 no talking about
the Bluetooth and I even even with my
blackberry in the car I sometimes both
devices are on and they've paired but it
doesn't seem to work until I just sort
of disconnect and connect again so you
can try that before you do anything
radical I wonder if that might even be
connected to the connected to no pun
intended if that might be connected to
being paired to another device so the
power cycle kind of undone pairs that
during that moment that's possibility
that's possible to possibly a
possibility thanks for the question I
hope that that helps ok we have another
one from ryan hey right and i have a
dual boot winxp ubuntu 10.4 drive both
are working fine in ubuntu 10-point to
migrate the whole 300 gig drive to the
new one terabyte drive what is the
simplest way thanks for any suggestions
Ryan so sorry XO there's a dual boot
environment dual boot winxp in a boon to
10 point 10 okay
and want to see he's added a hard drive
sure and everything's working fine in
the blue tube and he wants to migrate
the whole 300 gig drive to the new one
terabyte drive okay a couple of
suggestions in the chat room here torto
is saying to use DD which is is
definitely a good option that's a like a
sector-by-sector copy of your drive but
that's from from the Greg and Greg be
nice don't necessarily type the things
into your butt into your system you know
our DD doesn't really stand for destroy
no it doesn't does not it nobody really
knows what is a direct up I've been told
but it's all kinds of things it's like a
it's a sector-by-sector copy torto also
saying our sink is another option I tend
to when I when I do something like that
what I'm going to more lean towards
something like clonezilla as AG moto is
suggesting something where I'm able to
simply image from one device to another
I gamoto suggesting the DD could stand
for disk duplicator makes sense but then
it also does much more than that so we
can use DD for exactly well we're not
going to get into DD but so i would i
would say clonezilla look at the
clonezilla tutorial that i did a little
while ago and just consider that instead
of sending that that that image to a
network share like i did in the
demonstration clonezilla will allow you
to instead image directly to another
hard drive so that can be that one
terabyte hard drive it can be much
bigger now keep in mind that the windows
as well as possible you're going to are
going to see it's quite possible that is
going to recreate the partitions the way
that they were on the original drive so
you're not immediately going to be able
to utilize the entire amount of space
let's say it was a 500 gig drive a new
image
it to a one terabyte drive it's still
when you boot it up you're going to say
well where's my extra space because what
it is is it's unallocated space on that
hard drive and because you've already
done partitioning you understand what
that means is that there is space for
yet another partition so of course you
could do that or you could use a tool
let's just say there there are some boot
cds i would say like g part at boot CD
for example and then you can you can
stretch that partition and make it to
make it larger i'm gonna have some links
for you in the show notes for episode
number 184 but essentially we're looking
at clonezilla to do the clone itself and
then i would say you know we're keeping
everything open source and free you
don't have to buy any of the software
it's it's absolutely free for you and
then using the g part ed boot CD in
order to resize the partitions at that
point so i hope that that helps point in
the right direction this is category 5
technology TV and you'll find us online
triple w category 5 TV full house
tonight it feels like oh yeah it's good
to see you oh it's always good to see
you how's your week on um busy so far
she's Susie down here i know that i just
noticed that she says that on the air
before she was like nitpicking at me and
throwing things at me and stuff time to
get it over for the show yeah so yeah
looks like we've got lots lots to come
so we can just we have some more
questions there we have some more
questions okay here i'm not to not to
push so but we've got a big feature
tonight and and so we do want to try to
get your questions in if we can't just
get through this okay yeah this is from
drask asst i guess a drastic Robbie in
episode 182 you said that people should
not connect to unencrypted Wi-Fi to
check their email however if you are
using webmail that uses https or you use
SSL from a mail program you should be
okay right I was under the impression
that you are encrypting your traffic
starting with your computer and so it
should be encrypted even over the Wi-Fi
thanks gracias
yeah in that kind of case troska said
you're probably you're more safe than
you would be if you were using the non
HTTPS server understand that the traffic
between your computer and the wireless
router is unencrypted in the case where
it's an open network so that can be
dangerous if you're connected to an
encrypted web site i think i use the
example of the the online banking that's
an encrypted web site and so the data
transmission from your browser to that
website is going to be on in 28 or
256-bit aes encryption but that said
because you're on an open network
there's the potential that's rare or
like it's it's it's not as likely okay
but it's it's possible that there could
be a keylogger or something on your
computer that's able to then grab your
your keystrokes and transmit them to to
a nearby packet sniffer or something if
you use wireless like just to just to
give you an example of what can be done
as far as what hackers can do a wireless
keyboard can be the keystrokes can be
intercepted from the wireless keyboard
so if you're sitting at your computer
with a wireless keyboard and you're
typing away and you put in your your
password for online banking sure the
computer transmits in an encrypted state
to the online banking site however what
there's no encryption between other
devices so so there is a possibility
that you know somebody has potentially
for a Trojan thrown something on your
computer if it's a window system there's
a definite threat there that you know
you could have something that's
monitoring what you type so getting on
to an open network can open you up to
all kinds of vulnerabilities but that
said if you're on an open network of no
encryption there and you're connecting
to an encrypted web site your most most
likely safe but it's the fact that you
know we get so accustomed you also want
to be careful because we get so
accustomed to being on our home network
and being on a secure network that you
almost ain't for granted
and do we always check you know that
this security certificate is valid not
too likely do we always check that the
that the lock is in place when we go to
a secure website so just some thoughts
to ponder but I think you're right that
essentially you're you're better
protected in that case but it's still
not good practice to connect open Wi-Fi
at all in my opinion I'll just tag that
on the end thanks for the question then
Robbie's opinion okay just see you
getting a t-shirt made results may vary
mileage baby thanks for that it's like
the weight loss sites results not
typical okay um was that was a nice
definite severe cases of way cause death
quite possibly hey um this is from
gadwal hey gamble operating system well
we have a plethora myriad operating
systems here win7 ubuntu 10.04 arch open
suse at cetera good evening first my
request could you please show us how to
make a virtual machine in virtualbox and
copy the files needed such as the VDI
and install it to be used on another OS
I just made an XP pro machine in win7
and want to move it into my ubuntu
without reinstalling everything this
would be a big help if possible second
okay let's start with that if you want
to keep your pace because it sounds
echandole do my finger on the monitor it
sounds like it's a multiple multiple
question here and typically when you
send us an email live at category 5 TV
best practice is to break up your
questions into multiple email if there's
going to be multiple questions the
reason i say that sometimes we run short
on time so if we read the first question
we get that answered for you we might
have to move on before we get to the
second question in which case we may
never get to the second question because
it might fall through the cracks next
week when we're sorting our email and we
say oh well we already answered that one
because it's the first one so so keep in
mind your best to send us multiple
emails so based on your question there
about about the virtual machines once
you've created your virtual machine and
virtual box of course as you know it
creates the VDI file you've got a
virtual hard drive so I've got a couple
of a couple of different machines here
so in order to get those on your ubuntu
system if that's what you're running
you're going to go into your home folder
and within your home folder you're going
to actually go to dot slash or part of
me / don so we're going like that and
then virtual box with a capital V as
soon as you start typing them is going
to do it but virtual box with a capital
B capital B with a period before it
because it's a hidden folder once you're
in there you're going to see a couple of
folders hard disks and machines you can
back up everything if you want easiest
thing to do is just go in your hard
disks and you'll see that here are the
actual virtual hard drives of each of
those virtual machines this file for
example is a 2.2 gigabyte file so i can
easily enough burn that onto a seat DVD
or it could also transfer that v8 via a
flash card the USB flash stick or
something or through my network so then
from there you get over to your to your
other system and keep in mind if you're
if you created the virtual machine on a
Windows system file location will be
different but still you can just grab
that file from your from your users
folder on windows so then take that move
it over to another computer now you've
just got the hard drive you don't have
the actual machine you've got to create
the virtual hardware again so next step
is to on the new new computer the new
host computer you're going to add a new
virtual machine just as if you are
creating a new one but this time you
want to actually select an existing hard
drive so for example if I in virtualbox
doesn't matter what my host platform is
here I am okay and I go new virtual
machine next name of the virtual machine
test how much ram do I want to give it
fine and here's the question you want to
create a new hard disk or would you like
to use an existing hard disk so what you
want to do is you want to first copy
that hard hard disk the virtual hard
disk over to your computer or on to your
network somewhere where it's accessible
and because you can't run that disk from
the DVD or from your USB flash drive
that's it everything I wasn't trying to
encourage him folks at dinner happened
moving right along then shall we come to
windows yeahh shall we go to this neat
tip carry you wanna everybody your blue
screen no that's fine okay second a neat
tip to share this tip is to show
everyone how to track exactly how many
resources and application is using on
windows in a given amount of time it is
built in every system that i have tried
and works flawlessly first steps check
the top answer on this article oh here
we go HTTP colon slash slash stack
overflow commies wise rabbit you want to
grab that i can bring up the / questions
/ 693 32 / tracking yes does this cpu
folks and this okay you guys could talk
amongst yourself while he tries to find
the email I've got more I could continue
it all right right here okay don't let
me come over there oh hmm ok what I'm
gonna do is I'm gonna throw this through
our URL shortener what is what is this
pertaining to cuz I gotta give it a name
this is oh how much sure what the
resources are than application is using
so okay so your ass tracker I'm gonna
call this mem usage okay how's that so
cat5 done at CBU and mem that's done too
late so I finished with the rest of the
comment here I'm sure yeah yeah ok I'm
gonna grab this URL dough and I'm gonna
bring it up on the screen while you're
reading so you go ahead thank you go
ahead it would also be neat if you could
show us how to do something comparable
in Linux well this is part two of the
question now all right this wasn't well
that was sort of a question I guess but
it's more of a comment it would be
needed he could do it wasn't really good
would you do alright let's see when
thanks to Robbie for reading / answering
and to everyone else involved Eric doing
all the Reading Gaol ah that would be
you know Hillary drawn Krista Becca who
else do we have involved here tonight
but the whole cat5 family out there yeah
cap five dot TV / mem usage takes you
there and let's see here okay so talking
about running uh let's see performance
window open Oh perfmon the performance
monitor in microsoft windows so I don't
have a windows machine to show you
perfmon it's an it's a nice tool if
you've got windows try that run PE RF mo
n from your run dialog or just from
wherever it's a GUI so you don't have to
be in the command prompt or anything
like that is that different from the
performance in task manager yeah task
manager gives you kind of an overview of
like memory usage processes they're
running and the graph perfmon is more of
an ongoing kind of overview of the CPU
state things like that so a little bit
different in what it's presenting and
allows you to to kind of zoom in on some
of that data i would say probably gk r
element be the one that i would look at
as far as linux goes i'll bring up my
terminal just too let's install it with
apt just to be all fancy like here we go
sudo apt-get install gk rel with 2 m's
em i think is how we spell it enter your
password let's see if this is what
you're looking for oh it's just going to
install no prompts or anything I guess
once it's in there hit alt f2 that is
the Linux command for run application
and type gk rel um and that gives you
this tool over here they see and that is
very similar data you can see that it
breaks it down into into your cores
gives you your your proc information
your your disk activity which is pretty
helpful because sometimes you know what
you look at your computer you wonder why
it's slow and sometimes you wonder well
my cpu is only a 40-percent what's going
on but you don't realize that your hard
drive actually slows down your computer
so it like just exponentially if it's
that if if it's me and maxed out and
starting to have some trouble or
anything like that so so i would give
that a go gadwal is that the is that the
end of the email that was the end of
that email okay well no actually the end
was you know thanks Robbie for reading
and answering him and at the end yeah
email oh yeah okay how was the recap
thanks God will and certainly don't mind
taking the time with that with gab well
he's a very active member of our forum
at category 5 TV and we certainly not
appreciate having him as a part of our
our show thanks all right this is
category 5 technology TV and you'll find
us online triple w category 5 TV if
you're watching this live hey cool I got
an email that's what that sound means
very cool live nicely kind my blackberry
off analyst I actually got an email last
week somebody watching the show live
just to say I just heard you get an
email
so imagine what happened I got to email
on the show just for the fact that
somebody wanted to mention that they
heard the ipod sound Christa were
surrounded by geeks hi Sheba Thanks
around I do so if you're if you're not
watching this live you're watching this
after the fact be it on mural internet
TV iTunes if you're watching this on
roku box through the blip TV app if
you're watching this on your iPhone or
your Android device wherever you're
watching us get on over to our website
category 5 TV that would be a great
place it's a it's an exceptional
resource as far as the show goes if you
do enjoy the show then I think you're
really going to like our website and
find that there's a lot of cool stuff
there but in addition to that it's a
great community I love the fact that we
have a very active community and we'd
love to have you involved one of the
cool new features that we have for the
mobile device is a QR codes which Eric
you're familiar with QR codes and you
probably use them on your blackberry
sure this is something that's pretty
cool and I'll just if you wanted if
you've got a mobile device with a QR
code reader and you and you're not and
you've never seen this on our website
bring up category 5 TV and you see this
app here John this is it looks like a
like a video camera there's really
nothing to it other than the fact that
it has a little grid in the middle and
it says that it's going to see that
little square so this is it's a QR code
reader is what it is so there there are
a ton of apps like this it's kind of
trippy doing it that way and this one is
simply called QR code reader and it's
available for free in the App Store for
the iphone and ipod touch as well as the
ipad if you have the camera in your in
your device what you can do is you can
bring up our website category 5 TV and
this is kind of interesting you see the
episodes here and let's say last week's
episode website development part 3 if i
bring up the show notes for that episode
you see that there is a QR code and
that's what this grid thing is and if
you're watching the show right now you
could actually scan the screen with your
phone and you'll see that that will
actually bring something up for you so
all i have to do is I need to take this
and I'm just going to point it to the
screen and almost instantly what's going
to have like I don't have to click or
anything and it actually brings up
the mobile version of the the website I
don't know if you can get in there John
to see but what's interesting about it
is if you look at here the the episode
that we're looking at again is episode
number 183 and so by pointing to the to
the screen with my QR code reader we've
actually got that exact same episode but
we have an in mobile version so now
we're able to simply play that directly
on our iPhone or our portable device and
it just loads it right up into quicktime
on the iphone ipod touch or the or the
ipad and that will actually start
streaming the show directly from our
servers now if you don't actually have
that particular app you were mentioning
you know even in on a blackberry if you
go into the blackberry messenger there's
you know scanner group barcode oh yeah
that little yeah little guy there and
cool and I'm just going to make sure
that actually works before I tell
everybody go and try it out it should
work with with any device that has a QR
code reader and they're always available
for free if someone wants to charge you
for your QR code reader note that you'll
probably find one for free that will do
everything that you needed to do so I
hear that or it's giving you yeah um
this is on a blackberry torch yeah of
course I'm not seeing anything but but
we'll leave that all you don't have your
glasses on that's the problem all right
okay look we have time for another
question we do not it is time I don't
know I can't work under these conditions
well if you sent into question and we
didn't get to you tonight just note that
we will do our best to qu for next week
and of course you can email your
questions live at category 5 TV or
directly off of our website click on
interact at category 5 TV Hillary it is
time yeah here we go
okay we're both unprepared there we go
you're ready 35 da TV news room if you
use tripadvisor you may sue me getting
more spam the travel site told customers
in an email Thursday that someone has
breached its network and stolen email
addresses for an undisclosed number of
its members steve kapur co-founder and
chief executive for tripadvisor wrote in
the email we've confirmed the source of
the vulnerability and have shut it down
we're taking this intimate very
seriously and are actively pursuing the
matter with law enforcement did you know
that the minimum age of a person that
uses facebook is 18 yet studies show
that around fifty percent of twelve year
olds in the US alone or active users of
the social networking site and those
numbers increase with the 13 to 17 year
olds according to a CNN report Facebook
has begun enforcing the age restriction
and it's been actively booting as many
as 20,000 under 18 year old users per
day Facebook is also actively working to
improve their ability to detect when
someone faked their age in order to gain
access if your child uses facebook it's
not a case anymore of whether you want
them to or not if they're under 18
they're forbidden to use the service and
Facebook is doing what they can to block
them Hillary I was just curious about
that because you're saying that they're
blocking 20,000 under 18 users a day I
just was wondering if they just go
through Justin Bieber's fan list and we
kind of start kicking people off it
could play for 20,000 is kind of a limit
as far as how much they can do in a day
manpower you like that would probably be
the best way to detect that for sure it
would work fever or any of those Disney
stars I mean yeah easy done get the boot
but yeah crazy I'm to tell my kid
brother and he's gonna get the boot soon
um in an email that was sent out
on their full disclosure mailing list
Sunday it was revealed that a number
website including my SQL calm and suncom
were compromised using perhaps
ironically an SQL injection attack in
the blind attack databases were stolen
which contain both member and employee
email addresses and account credentials
as well as tables with customer and
partner information and internal note of
details encrypted passwords from the
database were posted online with some
having been already cracked mysql is a
database inc form used by millions of
web site for small and medium-sized
databases including by the popular
blogging software wordpress while there
have been no word yet if the attack
affect other mysql users or if this was
due to a flaw in some other code but we
can expect to hear more from the lie SQL
team soon with patches release if needed
and lastly Samsung has developed a
completely transparent yeah transparent
crazy solar powered monitor which is
designed to be illuminated and powered
by ambient light although their
marketing the device as a television
it's almost certain that they are going
to be used as displays in commercial
areas and since it's also has a
touchscreen capability this could lead
to some of a cliff kiosk ever conceived
how would you feel if the neighborhood
kid though put a base poop baseball
through that baseball bat hello not good
not good you can get these full stories
at category 5 TV / newsroom the category
5 tartini newsroom is researched by bro
w Nash with contributions from gadget
wisdom guru and our awesome community of
viewers if you have a new story you
think's worthy of honor mention send us
an email at newsroom a category 5 TV for
the category 5 TV news room I'm hopeful
Hillary thanks so much that looks like a
really cool device yeah yeah yeah I've
always kind of been intrigued by those
like the thought of a transparent
monitor being able to move things around
especially these days with multi
toucha to just be astounding but it's
all about backlight so putting it as a
window kind of make sense on a sunny day
what do you do when the Sun Goes Down I
just can't work past five or six I guess
so yeah I got ya unless you're you know
but if what if you're in one of the
areas of the world that are like dark
for like months like up north yeah you'd
be you'd be really I guess that's
there's no market out there for
samsung's new televisions yeah guess so
they can stand outside in the cold with
a flashlight as dad watches a movie Oh
works it works yeah this is category 5
TV and this this episode of the show is
brought to you in part by pogoplug cat5
TV / pogoplug to check them out and of
course also by planet calypso cat5 TV /
calypso nice to have you here eric is is
is getting antsy over there is is
important one sport in my post plug sure
in addition oh okay and and I noticed
that like with the studio setup you
can't really see but but Eric doesn't
have any line of sight to us but we can
see his hair it makes me incredibly
jealous but anyways but you wish you
could've zoom so he's looking at us I'm
gonna think that he's looking away I
wonder what that glow was oh sure local
stories all he sees is just the zone
spelling out here was that Dan Edward
conehead nope sorry I'm sorry sorry ok
I'll try to behave in the future as
we've heard said moving right along but
it could happen tonight we're going to
be looking further at coding our new
website that Krista and I have been
developing over the past few weeks and
then really having a lot of fun with
that and I think we're learning a lot as
well so i'll just remind you that you
can get over to cat5 TV / web dev short
for web development and by going there
it's actually going to bring up a
special site i'm going to bring it up
for you right now web then there we are
and this actually has a list of all the
episodes that pertain to this series and
it in fact has some downloads as well
you'll notice also that there are now
progress archives starting this week so
you can actually down low
an archive which contains the entire
file structure as created on each
episode so that you're able to follow
along even if you're watching this after
the fact so if you're watching this down
the road just note that you can use
those archives in order to actually see
where we got to at the time if you're
unable to to see it live on the air so
we're going to continually add those and
the episode numbers of the files
correspond to the episode in which we
created those files so we're going to go
back to our source code that we've been
working on one of the things that you
know that I like to do is I like to keep
my files organized I like to keep things
really clean and I like to be able to
find things anytime I need them right
now I've got this comp PSD sitting on my
desktop I'm going to cut that and Eric
Derrick knows what it is that I'm going
to do here i'm going to create a folder
called to put our master files in Oh raw
we're going to create a folder called
raw this is just my own preference I
knew it all caps so that when i'm
uploading to ftp i can see that that is
my roth older reason that i do that is
that within the folder of this website i
now have all my master file so these are
the files that if i ever need to go back
over things i have that ability so now
i've got that by keeping things
consistent by keeping naming algorithms
consistent we're able to always find
things regardless of how many websites
were developing somebody such as myself
for Krista we create websites on an
ongoing basis so I've probably got
several thousand websites under my belt
so if it weren't for consistency in my
naming structure and consistency in the
way that I program it would get really
tough had I need to go back over some
code that i created a year earlier so
two things that we can do is one we keep
a very organized file folder structure
and two maybe three things to the second
thing is we keep a consistent naming so
i use style dot CSS as my style sheets
you can use whatever you like but that
seems to be you know that's
I use and that's consistent across all
my websites and then also I forget the
third one what's gonna say to heard one
well it was two things there you go very
important they vary this the third one
was really pointless I tell you so there
we go we've got our organized folder
structure we're good to go we're never
going to upload the raw folder this is
just for our own reference and of course
we want to keep it on a backup as well
so that if we ever need it we can go
back over it let's open back up our
files back into G edit or if you're
using a different editor that's fine too
Eric do you remember the windows editor
that we have used in the past there was
like a nice like a note pad replacement
it was almost like word pad but it was
um yes what for episode like that yeah
yes peb he s pad thankfully my yeah cuz
as I'm doing this I realized that I had
promised that I was going to look that
up and I don't think I brought up
windows once this week so I didn't have
anything to remind me let's do a quick
Google search to find PS pad there we go
that's fantastic so if you're on Windows
and you want to follow along with this
this is the one I think it was a
fantastic actually I use it quite
regularly yeah and you're on windows
yeah and sorry sorry kids I'm still
using Windows you can adjust some of the
preferences so that it's you know
certain things it it'll it'll add you
know closing tags HTML which sometimes
is annoying when you're handy okay yeah
well we were I think when you get to the
point where you are coding the code yeah
you don't you don't want it to those
attacks because you're doing it and so
you yeah you don't want that so looking
at PS pad thank you Eric PS pad dot-com
just like it sounds so this is what I
red zone little ftp you oh yeah
application built in but it is not open
source but it is freeware so you can
download it absolutely free the latest
build published in the forum that sounds
that's where I'm looking download links
there you go so I I believe this is
strictly Windows but if you're on
Windows and you want to follow along
with us that's the one you use and
you're using Dreamweaver is there a free
version that you can like something that
you keep I believe there's one called
Komodo and edit ok young um like
dreamweaver just a lot more simplified
something says a lot easier great and do
we have your mac up on it yeah we do
don't win we have the ability to bring
that up on our screen tonight that's
good so we'll be able to follow along so
PS pad com if you would like to follow
along with with us on windows i'm using
g edit on linux and we've got
dreamweaver us on the map as well good
coffee tonight hey it's not a resume d
almost it's mines empty I just finished
off my ubuntu how's your her she's there
we go i'm a go for coffee run road okay
so where we left off last week we didn't
get too far but we got our you remember
that we had our the mo site setup demo
chap five TV and if we go there now go
into the 001 older and you'll see that
we have this red frame here so now what
we're going to do is we're going to
we're going to look at our original
mock-up and determine you know where do
we go next so our mock-up is a PSD and i
just open that up in the gimp there we
go so it really is a red background but
the lower part the area that is going to
have the actual text of our website is
going to be white you can see that
that's the far background color but up
here is going to be red so what we need
to do what
you can't see oh well you just got to
tell me these things I behind by a
whiteboard I can't see here we go okay
so up here we see that the logo is is
going to be on the red but then below
that is going to be basically it's like
a it's a square this is a rectangle
right so this makes things easy that's
going to be one div so what we want to
look at is how our logo is going to be
positioned so jumping over to our folder
here which you can download directly
from cat5 TV / web dev and within this
folder I know note take a look at my
images and grab the Aspire place logo in
Linux if I double click on that I'm
going to see down at the bottom there
are the dimensions of the image in
Windows you're going to need to possibly
right click on it and go properties
which in Linux you can also do but it's
a little couple extra clicks so 162 by
58 are the dimensions of this image so
in order to add that we want to want to
know that let's just slap it inside of
our rapper here so to add an image we're
going to go IMG SRC which is an image
source equals we're in HTML so i'm going
to put opening and closing tags for the
image and i'm going to go images this is
relative to our current file location
there's an index dot PHP so we're going
into the images folder / and then the
name of that file was aspire place logo
pain which underscores in place of
spaces in Linux like oh well anywhere
you can rename and just highlight it and
copy the renamed text so now I've got it
in my clipboard as i zoom in here and
paste now I have that ok so the image is
there now we need to specify the width
equals and what do we say it was 162
with equals 162 this is not CSS so we're
not adding dot the PX is HTML and then
height equals 1558 zoom sometimes that's
something up throw a slash in there to
end the element XML compliance so quick
question why would you not put your
width and height in CSS opposed to or
with CSS opposed to just in your HTML
you can do that for sure um width and
height on an image is something that can
be either or positioning elements tend
to like if I'm working with the table
you're going to want to set it up image
in the CSS more than the then the HTML
because HTML doesn't give me as much
control over the style with this it's an
either/or because it does exactly the
same thing so it's just preference yes
actually or just speed of getting it in
there we don't need to create a class
for this okay for example if I wanted to
specify this in CSS this image would now
have to have an ID because we have to
like we could call it ID equals logo and
then the logo ID in CSS could have those
on those dimensions which we may end up
doing anyways but we kind of thinking
linearly will do this kind of step by
step and then we may change it down the
road all right so let's take a look so
that has placed that at the top of my
wrapper at the left hand side because
rapper doesn't have any alignment in the
in the actual flight text alignment and
then so I'm going to connect to my ftp
i'm going to upload that the physis
Hillary's on the screen by the way are
you surfing youtube down there like lay
a little bit yeah all right I'm gonna
mute your mic here we go and create a
new folder we're gonna call this 100 20
you are just absolutely ashamed she's
like okay so I created a folder called
002 so if you in 001 you can you can get
out of that and go 2002 that's on the
demo cat5 TV site and i'm uploading
these changes including my revised index
file so back here again changing 2002
and you'll see that the logo is slapped
right in there so now I think we're
ready to get rid of that red border we
don't really need that at this point so
in our CSS for a rapper we're done with
that border we can delete that
must have ftp up somewhere else there ok
so I'm going to upload my style dot CSS
file because I just changed it
so now if I f5 that red border is gone
and we're good to go so looking at the
mock-up that you created Krista I think
there was a little bit of padding at the
top of the top yeah so it kind of starts
where the the darker red ends yeah so
this should be moved down to like two
about their kind of thing right so what
we can do two ways we can do this we can
even play the guessing game and just
kind of guess at it or use your marquee
might as well and just figure out you
know how tall is that I'm going to copy
that to my clipboard and go edit paste
as new image now I've got that that size
and I see that it's 24 pixels high so I
know that I need to pad the top or marta
add a margin at the top of that image
for 24 pixels so here's where as I was
kind of hinting we may have to create an
ID anyways on the logo that's fine
because here we go so we'll we'll do
that let's get rid of that width and
height we're going to go ID equals logo
ok so now it looks like that just kind
of learning as we go so that we know
what all this stuff does now it's an ID
so I put a pound sign in their logo ok
if it was a class
and we're going to learn what all that
means but if it was a class equals logo
it would look like that cuz it's an ID
we've got a pound sign there I'm going
to paste in with v equals 162 and change
it to CSS so it looks like this and
height equals 58 is going to look like
this just like that and now what we want
to do is margin-top where we say 24
pixels so let's say 25 pixels at the top
I added 1 pixel because I like to round
things to a nice even number donor so
I'm going to upload a game that style
dot CSS file and you notice that we're
making changes to the site but it's just
a little bit of text in a style sheet
I'm just going to drag that over to my
ftp server go back to my site and
refresh and as i refresh watch that logo
let's see didn't do anything that
happens oh well sit and this is one of
the things that you learn as if as you
working on a website sometimes you're
just back and forth back and forth what
I did there is I created an ID of logo
for the logo I uploaded the style sheet
but I didn't upload the index dot PHP so
what I'm looking at is still not it
doesn't have a specified ID so I have to
upload that file as well I missed one
file there hit f5 and there we go so now
it is pretty much flush with that line
there we can move it down we can move it
around just by using those margins if we
want to move it down just a little wee
bit look
throw a couple of pixels on their kind
of thing and now you notice now I only
have to upload the style that CSS there
we go so it's just got a few more pixels
there so it's not quite touching the
line there we go so now next up we need
to create an ability to add a menu so
this is where things get a little bit
tricky because we're working now not top
to bottom we're working left to right so
something that we may want to do for
example is we might take that logo and
let's put a div next to it we're going
to call this ID equals menu and again
we're going to always close that if when
we open it and I do that right up front
so that I don't have to remember because
it's already done and I don't have to
look and figure oh did I close that div
I do it right away and then it's done
and we don't have any elements that are
breaking our website so with that I'm
going to add a space which is nbsp
semicolon and nbsp semicolon so it's not
going to output any text but it's just
going to give me an HTML space and I'm
going to create a new ID in my style dot
CSS file and we were going to call this
menu order solid one picks white okay so
what I've done there is I've created a
div again need to upload both my style
sheet and my index you're going to see
what's going to happen here again we're
thinking left to right but we haven't
specified that yet so the white box is
now going to appear directly below our
logo divs by default are going to take
up the entire width of the element that
is wrapping it in this case it's the
rapper that's why it's only going that
far it can only go that far if you
didn't have that wrapper it would extend
all the way to the edge of your browser
because the body is the whatever what
its surrounding that element so what we
want to do now is we want to make it so
that that is to the right hand side of
our logo so what we can do we can take
the width of our site 950 pixels that's
a rapper right and then we know that our
logo is 162 so automatically we know you
know what we need to do here or what we
can do use a float element okay this is
kind of like aligning that element let's
see what happens and a lot of times
there's a little bit of experimentation
that goes in again the we haven't
specified a width yet for this div
that's going to be our menu and
therefore it's not going to it's going
to be like that don't know the technical
term for like that so what we can do now
is we can float it right okay floating
is exactly what you would expect it to
be and now we're going to specify with
what could happen is let's say we go 500
pixels ok we're going to upload our
style sheet again
and you see what happened there is its
move the box 5 it's 500 pixels wide and
it's just over on the right-hand side of
the logo and the logo is not forcing it
to go to the next line because it's
float left okay so now we can extend
that you know another 200 250 pixels so
let's try let's try 750 pixels and see
how that extends there we go so that
looks about where we want it based on
our mock-up okay so now again we need to
make sure that it's in the right
position from the top so we already
learned that margins are what's going to
move an element down padding on the
other hand is going to pad the inner
side of the div so if i added padding
it's going to be on the inside of the
div as opposed to a margin which is on
the outside of the div so here what
we're going to do is we're going to add
a margin there that's going to take us
down so that it's basically flush with
the spot that is supposed to be just
under the logo on the right-hand side so
margin top and the height of the logo is
58 so we'll say in this case let's say
there's padding of 28 so let's start
with remember this is the top edge of
that div so let's start with 75 pixels
just to see where that puts it because
remember this is the top of the div
here we go so that's a little bit too
low ok so then again we just kind of
move it up a little bit and you see why
I why I tend to put a board around
something because it really helps you to
position something on the screen because
with web you don't have that chance to
drag and drop for real like because
weiss a wig is only really go so far
when you're really truly programming
something it helps to have that to be
able to see where where does that this
is going to actually fall on your screen
so here we go let's bring that margin
top down to 65 and see what that does
there we go so that's looking pretty
good so now this element as you know the
the white square is going to be our menu
that's exactly where our menu is going
to fall and now we have a place to place
that so all we need to start doing now
because we have that element now what i
can do is i can remove that white border
right because we know it's in the right
position that's where we want i can save
that i can go up to my index and now
within this day of i can get rid of that
nbsp and I can start going home about us
etc right and now if I upload those two
files and bring up our website and
refresh I have a spot that my menu is
yeah i'm just gonna mute your microphone
there there we go alright so that that
is going to get us into next week where
we're going to start we're going to kind
of finalize the way that our menu is
going to function we're going to set up
how our body wrapper is going to
maintain the actual content of the site
and we're going to get kind of work our
way down on that website and get it so
that it's looking just like the mock-up
and very soon we're going to be able to
start populating it with with content
and breaking it out into individual
pages so that you can actually navigate
this site so that's demoed cat5 TV / 002
sorry I've done all the talking have an
i know that's it are you learning hardly
notice ok story I well you're following
along on the mac right and yeah yeah so
does that is that you starting to see
how those elements kind of fall into
place yeah yeah kind of neat i do all
like the photoshop stuff and look at all
it but they see how I best rounds
together one of it yeah from Photoshop
to uh to web stuff right right this is
category 5 TV and of course this this is
a
of our series on web development that
Krista and I have been putting together
for you you can find out more and watch
other episodes in the series at cat five
TV / web dev and you'll be able to
download any of the files that you see
here on the show as well with regards to
this we'll have some links to the
different applications that you can use
as well so thanks so much for watching
tonight it's been nice having you here
great to have you guys here there's beer
yeah you're under a bright light can't
read what is it oh go leafs go fantastic
alright i'm at know hey have a great
week Hillary's there with us too hey
Hill High yeah thanks you have a blingy
Hillary thanks i'll see you guys next
week yep take care see everybody mom bye
a lot of people on their own now
