here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom a
recently discovered ransomware group has
netted almost 4 million dollars since
August by adopting a big-game hunting
strategy call coms patent lawsuit
against Apple has been dismissed as
groundless by a court in Mannheim
Germany YouTube clips that depict
dangerous or emotionally distressing
pranks have been banned from the
platform and Nike has launched
self-lacing trainers which fit
themselves to the shape of the foot and
are controlled via smartphone these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere this is the category 5 TV
newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories
slow Linux bias Jeff Westen Gemma you're
building a brand-new beautiful website
what
are you you're a terrible actor what
this where acting comes into play you're
supposed to act okay are you building a
really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration if
less than six dollars per month so sign
up today five dot TV slash dream host I
am Sasha Rickman and here the top
stories were following this week I
netted almost four million dollars since
August by adopting a big game hunting
strategy the new found ransomware
selectively installs the malicious
encryption software on previously
infected targets with deep pockets the
method differs from the usual one of
indiscriminately infecting all possible
victims to analysis were published
Thursday one by security firm
CrowdStrike and the other by competitor
fireEye
both reports say that Rio as the
ransomware is known in facts large
enterprises days weeks are as much as a
year after they were initially infected
by separate malware which in most cases
is an increasingly powerful trojan known
as trick bot similar organizations
infected by trick bot by contrast don't
suffer the follow-on attack by ryuk
CrowdStrike called the approach big-game
hunting and said it allowed its
operators to generate 3.7 million
dollars worth of Bitcoin across 52
transactions since August
besides pinpointing targets which the
resources to pay hefty ransoms the
method has another key benefit the dwell
time that is the period between the
initial infection and the installation
of the ransomware it gives the attackers
time to perform valuable reconnaissance
inside the infected network the
reconnaissance lets attackers maximize
the damage it causes by unleashing the
ransomware
only after it has identified the most
fritter
systems of the network and obtained the
passwords necessary to infect them while
uncommon the reconnaissance isn't unique
to ryuk sam sam an unrelated ransom
where that's caused millions of dollars
of damage infecting networks belonging
to the city of Atlanta
Baltimore's 9-1-1 system and boeing just
to name a few follows a similar path
there's no doubt however the technique
is effective according to the federal
prosecutor sam sam operators recovered
more than six million dollars in ransom
payments and caused more than 30 million
dollars in damage Thursday's reports
leave little doubt that this approach is
likely to grow more common the fireEye
researchers routes throughout 2018
fireEye observed an increasing number of
cases where ransomware was deployed
after the attackers gained access to the
victim organization through other
methods allowing them to traverse the
network to identify critical systems and
inflict maximum damage Wow
I think what the news story doesn't
touch on and maybe media in general
isn't aware of this but sometimes these
types of attacks are multi-tiered mm-hm
so an attacker may compromised a network
and then they do the reconnaissance
right and then they sell that network to
the actual attacking party so social
engineering tactics are used in order to
gain access to a corporate network and
then that network is assessed by that
attacker mm-hmm and that attacker
figures okay well they have 300
computers they are probably a government
organization maybe they even know who
they are and that increases the value
for them to resell it and the story
doesn't even touch on it right but it's
quite likely that the whole
reconnaissance thing is another attacker
altogether and then the value that they
put on that network is what causes them
to be the ones who are susceptible
because you know what I'm not gonna pay
big dollars for the small networks right
so the small networks are generally safe
are they
no they still have their targets they're
not interesting to those who are
actually paying for the information to
be able to gain access to those networks
right like my work is not gonna be
targeted probably your small business
with you don't have electronic
transactions that are yeah the thing is
wood you know in the first place are
they smart enough just not to tell you
in the first place that you've been
infected
right so they infect you and then and or
an infection these days though I mean
think in terms of an infection is not
necessarily a virus or even a piece of
malware an infection or and let's use a
better term because again media is using
the terms like infection no infiltration
I would probably be a better term these
days so if you're not aware that it's
happened to begin with then the
reconnaissance can happen but if you
know like I guess there it there
probably isn't something like a shining
beacon that's like excuse me sir
but what can you do like from this point
if you have had an infiltration do you
just like throw everything out and start
new how do you even know where to start
now because now they have their your
passwords and they have your right so is
it too late for these big game companies
in the hunting sort of scenario them
yeah here's gonna be hard to recover
that's for sure yeah you can get your
data back you've got backup sure but
those private things are still unveiled
right I mean we talk we've talked about
data leaks and everything else so it's
multi-tiered it's multifaceted these
types of attacks and are those companies
I think it's naive to think that it's
just ransomware no ransomware is kind of
the endgame right no what what led up to
the ransomware reconnaissance
reconnaissance means collection of the
data right
reading through confidential data and
determining a value on that data and
then selling that to the next highest
bidder right that's why those companies
get attack scary are there good guys as
strong as the bad guys in this
Batman right there are anti-malware
companies that are trying to thwart
these types of attacks but those
anti-malware companies know as well as I
do that it comes down to education it
comes down to customer
people end users knowing I still I mean
I sell anti-malware all the time but I
still here
I just need antivirus know I don't want
the firewall but you do you do yeah yeah
cuz these days I mean I go through it
day in day out it's not viruses anymore
when when I was growing up we had to
deal with viruses as I said it's not
infections anymore
it's infiltration and does an anti-virus
protect you against infiltration not at
all does a firewall protect you against
infiltration it is definitely a good
point of defense that's for sure and not
just the firewall that comes with
Windows but a bi-directional firewall
that will stop the spread of things like
ransomware right that's key because I
mean you need you need to know if you
say you have 300 computers at your
system in your system you have 300
people let's say or maybe even 600 if
you're running two shifts people running
those computers will say somewhat right
exactly a chain is only as strong as its
weakest link I need a computer that's
smarter than me right that won't let me
do something like I am I have the habit
of if something seems boggy I just keep
pressing okay right here's another
example along that vein you get a
firewall installed because we're talking
about a firewall can protect you against
these kinds of attacks and that firewall
blocks you from being able to do
something you want to do do you turn off
the firewall that's the question and so
if the users have that capability to be
allowed to turn off their firewall they
will do it and I encountered this today
last night
Windows 10 updated itself on the
Wirecast broadcast system okay so now my
Nagios server mine M server is going
crazy saying
I can't access that system because when
it updated it blocked ping in the
firewall so my Nagios server started
saying I can't ping that server that
servers down I'm getting notifications
and wondering all the servers up and
it's working so why am I getting
notifications and of course that first
instinct is turn off the firewall and
see if it works
sure enough it works ok we'll turn back
on the firewall and then find out what's
going on okay well my Nagios server is
pinging and the pings are being rejected
by the firewall so I need to disable
just I need to allow pings to get
through right because that's something
that I personally want an IT
administrator has to be responsible for
that exact so the users don't turn it
off right so every company just really
needs to have a Robbie not a Robbie but
education for the staff Robbie learn
from things that you hear here I suppose
you know just there's lots of great
research online but you definitely have
to be privy to that kind of stuff you
have to be fearful because fear I think
makes you behave
you can't just be recklessly disabling
you know firewalls and making weak
passwords and doing all the weird things
that people do colby was in our chat
room and says updates should not be
allowed to change firewall settings and
I agree I was shocked that Windows
Firewall changed its own settings on a
Windows machine and I'm behind a NAT
firewall and I have good firewalls here
at the studio but that software suddenly
took over yeah no oh it's creepy yeah
well just gotta be you've got to be
smart about this kind of stuff and as an
an IT administrator we need to make sure
that our users don't have the capability
permissions wise to disable the very
things that are protecting our networks
right because 10% can you guys believe
this 10% of people in an office
environment will open the attachments on
phishing scam email
and that number is going to increase as
we see a rise in spear phishing attacks
right which are targeted which will say
hi Sasha I needed to open this file and
print it for me yeah oh okay
looks like it's coming from the boss
yeah your fishing is very convincing
right depending on who they look like it
came from like if it look like it came
you know for me yeah that said here's a
file I needed to print for me I I you
may not even think about it
I wouldn't know to be suspicious until
afterwards and then think huh how come
that encrypted all my files yeah yeah
how come I can't click anything anymore
exactly hmm Qualcomm's patent lawsuit
Germany the chip maker had argued Intel
powered iPhones infringed a transistor
switch patent it holds but in an initial
verbal decision the court disagreed
Qualcomm has said it will it will appeal
in a statement
dawn Rosenberg Qualcomm's executive VP
and general counsel said Apple has a
history of infringing our patents only
last month the Munich Regional Court
affirmed the value of another of
Qualcomm's cutting-edge patents against
apples infringement and ordered a ban on
the import and sale of impacted iPhones
in Germany that decision followed a
court-ordered ban on patent infringing
iPhones in China as well as recognized
recognition by an ITC judge that Apple
is infringing on Qualcomm's IP the
Mannheim Court interpreted one aspect of
our patent very very narrowly saying
that because a voltage inside a part of
an iPhone wasn't constant the patent
wasn't infringed we strongly disagree
and will appeal Apple responded saying
we are happy with the decision and thank
the court for their time and diligence
we regret Qualcomm's use of the court to
divert attention from their illegal
behavior that is the subject of multiple
lawsuits and proceedings around the
world the pair have been embroiled in an
increasingly bitter and global legal
battle in recently
as apple has shifted away from using
Qualcomm chips in its devices this
sounds just a little bit complicated
like this sounds we said it last week we
just yeah we're not privy on patent law
right so they I think they were
expecting this in in the situation in
the first place isn't that why the
German Court needs you to have the money
to back if you lose I don't I'm not
quite certain on the situation had it
gone on further had it gone for a month
and Apple lost a lot of sales because
they were not allowed to sell in Germany
for example then the money that Qualcomm
had put up front would have upset that
right but in this case it's like I don't
even want to touch on patent law and I
don't get it I feel like if you wrote a
book that right like the the the bat in
the Hat like this is what it seems like
to me right way infringe I do feel like
hearing statements from both companies
yes Apple is a child it really to me
yeah they just seem they're constantly
dropping
oh well Qualcomm is yeah is bad and and
I don't like any company that does that
right I know I let the law decide
don't try to sway people's opinions by
putting into your responses
negative negative connotations toward
the person who like it's just it's it's
about mindset and I just don't like that
because they're trying to sway the
populace into believing their side of
the story
which is not cool which I mean good luck
to them because people are smarter than
that Apple I'll tell ya well I think so
but there's a lot of people who buy
every Apple iPhone right but I feel like
that could be dwindling right it is like
Qualcomm's technologies that come out
are
mind-blowing and super advanced and like
the cutting edge of things right like
I'm more interested in all of the things
that Qualcomm has coming down the line
than I am in any thing that Apple Mania
Nvidia is mind blowing right now but
right yeah I don't know consumers let's
see if they wise up and and stop buying
Apple products we'll see ya YouTube
clips that depict dangerous or
emotionally distressing pranks have been
banned from the platform the move comes
in response to so-called challenges that
have sometimes resulted in death or
injury the Google owned video sharing
site said such material had no place on
YouTube however the firm appears to be
failing to enforce its existing rules on
harmful content some of the videos have
attracted many millions of views YouTube
said it work to aggressively enforce our
monetization policies to eliminate the
incentive for this abuse but enforcing
its new rules on pranks may prove even
more difficult given an ambiguity over a
what may or may not be considered
harmful a message added to the site's
frequently asked questions section reads
YouTube is home to many beloved viral
challenges and pranks that said we've
always had policies to make sure what's
funny doesn't cross the line into also
being harmful or dangerous our community
guidelines prohibit content that
encourages dangerous activities that are
likely to result in serious harm and
today clarifying what this means for
dangerous challenges and pranks from now
on the site said it would not allow
videos that featured pranks with a
perceived danger of serious physical
injury this includes pranks where
someone is tricked into thinking that
they're in severe danger even if no real
threat existed the new rules come in
response to several instances of pranks
and stunts that are seriously ill
advised at best and deadly at worst I
hope that they can pull it off I do too
and you know what the thing is I have so
much hope in common sense and humanity I
am a cheerleader for making the right
decisions but I will tell you that I
hear these crazy
challenges and I mean you can watch a
Netflix show a movie yeah it can't be
just YouTube it's gotta be other
problems as well and they get this idea
in your head right and then all of a
sudden you've started this cycle and
there are copycats out there and what
you're do I mean let's just say that the
original person who had the thought of
let's say it's parkour let's see it's
planking or let's say it's something
right where somebody has the physical
ability to do it does it and pulls it
off and people watch that video and then
they're like I can also climb a crane
but it's always I have to step it up one
notch higher right till finally it's
deadly and that's really concerning but
the news is just as guilty yeah like the
the mainstream news this stuff that we
hear about on our day to day and and you
talk about copycats and it's it's just
the world that we live in so it has to
be more than YouTube it is because as
soon as you two blocks down this kind of
stuff there's gonna be another platform
that rises up and that's the go-to place
for that kind of content I just I wish
that people understood the value of
their life like don't do something so
don't blindfold yourself and drive your
car don't eat at iPod like don't do
these silly challenge things that are
going to harm you or kill you because
you're an important person in the
society and I would like you to be alive
and not just famous on YouTube for some
crazy thing that got you hurt
there's too many tragedies yeah we hear
about I don't like Nike has launched
are controlled via a smartphone it's the
latest iteration of the futuristic
Footwear first referred to back in the
film back in the future part two and
made reality by Nike in 2016 the latest
version called Nike adapt will cost
three hundred and fifty dollars and will
not require a physical button to
activate the laces
of our Nikes creative director of
innovation said we picked basketball as
the first sport for Nike adopt
intentionally because of the demands
that athletes put on their shoes during
a normal basketball game the athlete's
foot changes and the ability to quickly
change your fit by loosening your shoes
to increase blood flow and then
tightening again for performance is a
key element that we believe will improve
the athletes experience users can
customize the fit and control through a
smartphone app which will store fit
preferences they can input different fit
settings for different moments in the
game loosening it for a timeout and
tightening before they reenter the game
when they step into a shoe a custom
motor and gear will sense the tension
needed by the foot and adjust
accordingly
the app will also store the data which
athletes can choose to share with Nike
the shoe goes on sale in February
smart technology where I never expected
it right I actually like I don't play
basketball as you might not have I don't
play basketball but I can you believe
that I do run on a treadmill and my
shoelaces come on tied all of the time
the answer yeah well I'm not going to
buy basket like eventually I'm going to
buy these shoes when they come out and
different for self-lacing to be able to
write feel like I was in Back to the
Future right I mean I'm training to be a
PSW I'm sure that the elderly could very
specifically use these shoes right or
some iteration of it it doesn't
necessarily have to be this
sophisticated different programs for my
sneakers but right hey be able to lace
them up without having to bend over that
is fantastic I need to have the
independence that I no longer need to
depend on somebody else to lace up my
shoes right oh I like it really quickly
according to coin gecko here's what the
crippled market looked like as of 1800
hours Eastern Time on Wednesday January
16th 2019 Bitcoin dropped a little bit
lost three hundred eighty nine dollars
and 37 cents USD taking it down to three
thousand five hundred eighty eight
dollars and 87 cents our loss over the
past week
litecoin is down at 31 dollars and 15
cents USD per light coin aetherium is at
120 197 also losing down 26 97 us Manero
is at 45 dollars and 50 cents and the
small guys stellite is a 2.5 110
thousandths of a cent and turtle coin is
at one point three eight ten thousandths
of a cent not losing a lot point zero to
ten thousandths of a cent remember the
cryptocurrency market is always changing
never ever closes so be careful out
there folks
be careful big thanks to row W Nash in
our community of yours for submitting
stories house this week thanks for
watching the category-five TV newsroom
don't forget to Like and subscribe for
all your tech news with a slight Linux
bias and for more free content be sure
to check out our web site from the
category-five TV newsroom I'm Sasha
Redmond and I'm Robbie Ferguson
[Music]
[Applause]
