for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
welcome to episode number 2 91 of
category 5 technology TV the 16th of
april 2013 great to see you great to be
heard you're so energetic and excited
because I've had about 50 units to build
it up Krista how are you I'm great I
still great yeah how are you fantastic
good I could tell ya I've been hacking
away all week you know working on
busting down mainframes and stuff yeah
well he went up to yeah Oh same thing
yeah yeah but you know better because
I'm Way better at it of course I'm
stealthy yeah you don't know her hacker
named folks never will she's just that
good tonight we're gonna actually learn
how to hack huh how do you like that
that's kind of on live TV we're gonna
teach you how to hack we're gonna build
our very first phishing website so that
you can steal everybody's passwords and
break into their bank account all that
stuff you're going to learn how to do
that tonight on category 5 great we
expecting a lot angry emails no we're
going to get all the the usernames and
passwords those are the emails were
gonna haha you're just gonna have to
stick around to see what on earth is he
talking about why is he closing green
seriously oh wow well how about I just
uh let you guys know what's coming up in
the news that would be awesome I thought
uh-oh is that there's some good things
come on haha and a hacker has targeted
aircraft flight deck computer systems at
least in simulation hmm hackers are
targeting android phone users WordPress
users with admin as their login are
coming under attack whoo microsoft
security essentials antivirus fails the
certification test yet
a game stick around people these stories
are coming up later in the show I like
how dramatic it is with Ewing under
attack like I can you really interested
of it how you thrown out you aren't you
I learn about coming under attack we
have to stick around signing learn you
haven't noticed this is the hacker
special of category 5 episode 291 lots
of fun we've got some exciting stuff
planned I don't know if you caught it or
not episode number 289 of category 5
technology TV I started the show I had
some print dyslexia like I actually
typed things wrong and i introduced the
show as episode number 2 98 sorry just
jumping ahead so we actually are you
know we've jumped back by eight seven
episodes tonight we're traveling really
time so this what everything we talked
about should be anything new then should
all be it's all should all be repeat
it's all pretty much what what we've
already talked about in the future right
cuz this has happened yet I'm excited
yeah our new audio feed was meant to be
up and running but we were having some
audio issues off the top tonight so
we're going to work on that for next
week and hopefully you will have access
to listening to the show if you want to
be able to you know if you're driving
around in the car I don't suggest that
you actually watch the show on your on
your smartphone it's it's dangerous and
very illegal so I would suggest you
actually listen to the show and that's
what's coming so right make sure you
watch for good idea because although
soon what do you have what a little
testing little mini vans have you ever
driven behind one of the minivans I have
the the little pop down TVs and if I get
and I actually yeah I actually driving
along the highway at 120 and and I'm
watching like it's usually Shrek yeah I
don't know why that is it's it's quite
often Shrek maybe can we category five
maybe there you go yeah this particular
episode the kids love it the kids love
chair packing
pretty sure yeah so what else we got
okay our mobile site if you're ready for
it a madcap five dot TV or is it oh
there it is I make sure you check it out
scan that with your mobile device use a
QR scanner you'll be able to bring that
up and again that mobile site is going
to feature our audio feed in the coming
weeks as well so we're building on it
we're building on it we've got our
hangout up tonight on google+ happy that
that's still working and you can get
over to cat five dot TV / g plus to
participate in the Hangout what's
different about the Hangout versus
watching live or watching on YouTube is
that the Hangout you can actually use
your webcam and you can you can chat
with us after the show you can chat with
other viewers all that kind of crazy
awesome stuff so stick around after the
show we're going to be doing our hang
out there as well yes and category 5
activity is a member of the tech podcast
network if Aztec gets here and the
International Association of Internet
broadcasters awesome thank you and I
want to say welcome to all of our new
viewers now these are registered viewers
that are new on our website rusty 9090
dance mat funny mugs Ricky 60 zinger
zinger NM / purple well she won't take
him Frank 123 yes I brihan I brahim baby
Abraham bury me yeah Chinese yang sounds
good you're giving me the hard ones of
course ah Putterman Peter mint could be
pewter mint maybe the apostrophe is
missing her son maybe pewter I'm sounds
cool it was like a Linux Mint computer a
computer yeah cool who else uh-uh L
jankovic or Yankovic depending on
whether the J is a J or yet yeah a
silent J which makes it a year sound ah
road rat so Lemire cooler nice to have
you joining us burke are good none these
are great names folks
awesome so super nice to have you guys
joining us time all right we've got to
take a really quick break after the
break Christopher self it's gonna be
hacking away with us stick around take
care don't go anywhere we'll be right
back at eco alkalines we believe you
should be able to trust your batteries
not just here but here here and here but
with one exception you should also be
able to trust your batteries here Eco
alkalines of the world's first and only
certified carbon neutral battery
manufactured to the highest standards of
recycling and quality without any trace
amounts of harmful chemicals like
mercury lead or cadmium eco alkalines
provide performance that rivals leading
national alkaline battery brands at a
comparable price find out more about the
Eco alkalines difference eco alkalines
com this is category 5 technology TV
episode number 2 91 and tonight we are
hacking we are teaching you to hack we
are going to learn how to create our
very own fishing site to steal people's
Twitter accounts yes finally I know
you've all been waiting for it you'll
want to know how is it done buying okay
so disclaimer off the top we're not
actually hacking tonight sorry oh I told
you we were gonna be hacking all this
for nothing I have to say this because
the legal people so anyway what we're
doing tonight people we're gonna show
you how easily it is for you to get
tricked by a phishing scam and how are
we going to do that we're gonna take it
from the ground up we're going to show
you how easily it is for the hacker to
trick you you ready to do that that
makes sense I like it let's go we're
gonna use Twitter as the example let's
bring up Twitter and oh there we go all
right let's go there twitter com we all
know it what we're gonna do Krista is
we're gonna create a Twitter clone
why because what is fishing and people
have said to me I'm on linux I'm safe or
I'm on Mac I'm safe or Irene I only use
my tablet so I'm safe never safe heed
that warning folks you're such a
pessimist well they will be safe after
tonight because they will be they will
have this knowledge and understand right
what us hackers do to trick you right
mmm-hmm so devious I know so sneaky
alright so here we are on the real
twitter com look at that okay how hard
is it for me do you think to replicate
this whole look like do you think that
that's going to take like a day for me
to code that or that Oh couple hours
super easy yeah so what like an hour
maybe I think so you think you got you
think so maybe about an hour okay so
let's see how long it actually takes me
the hacker hmm who wants to hack your
account and get all your Twitter
information okay so Chris is assuming
it's going to take me an hour I'm going
to go I'm here in firefox i can go file
save page as make a folder on my desktop
called Twitter and i'm going to save
this as Twitter save i'm going to go to
my desktop I see a folder called Twitter
and there's Twitter HTML and there are
Twitter files and if you go in there
these are actually the files that are a
part of that website so now if I
actually open that in my browser oh well
would you look at that look at that
what's this Twitter right no it's a file
on my desktop it looks like Twitter
watch this I'm going to open that with
my text editor I can do a quick search
for welcome to Twitter there's the text
just to show you how this is this is
legit people I'm gonna put welcome to
not Twitter because for the record
hackers have exceptional grammar I've
saved that I'm gonna go back to my
browser where to go there it is I'm
gonna refresh yeah oh wow looks a lot
like Twitter right folks but it's not
but it's not Twitter so what is the
phishing scam that a phishing scam is
somebody who tricks you into providing
information so tonight we're going to
use Twitter as the example but we're
going to talk a little bit about why
this is so incredibly dangerous if
you're not aware of this i know bring up
my ftp client we're going to actually
put this online i'm going to go into a
folder on my ftp server the suspect
citing stuff here we go okay
I'm going to take that folder from my
desktop i'm going to show you all this
don't worry i know this is suspense is
killing you here we go okay so there's
my desktop here is filezilla and there's
the Twitter folder okay I'm going to
grab those files and drag them up to my
server so now it's online if I bring up
my browser and I go to this special
website demo cat five dot TV / twitter
com you can see that the files are
starting to propagate and there is the
file itself Twitter HTML okay so next up
what I the hacker want to do is I
actually want to i'm going to close out
of that i'm going to go over to my
server here i'm going to rename the
twitter HTML file to index dot PHP so
now okay are we five minutes in yet i
refresh demo cat5 TV / twitter com and
what do you see looks a lot like this
and witter right and somebody at first
glance may not catch the fact that it's
actually a folder not a dot-com right so
lesson number one your address bar shows
you the actual location of the files
that you're looking at so if you notice
that here now I'm using our demo server
so demo count five TV / twitter com so
when you see twitter com it doesn't
necessarily mean that you're actually
looking at Twitter you saw me do it this
is in fact a folder on my web server so
demo cat5 TV that's the actual website
and within that there is a folder called
twitter com so I go into that and it
looks exactly like Twitter how does it
look so exactly like it because it is
copied from it all the files that's how
easy it is for a hacker Wow to create a
mock version of a website it's way less
than an hour
way less so now you know we're going to
look at the code so I'm going to open
that index dot PHP for editing here we
go and as a hacker I know to just do a
quick search for form we'll see i'll use
the term hacker loosely because it's
it's really quite easy so you see what's
happening here in the form action search
instead I'm going to delete that we're
not actually going to do any searching
let's do another search for form here's
the okay change locale doesn't really
matter if they do something it's not
going to if I remove that it's not going
to do anything because remember we're
just creating a fake site so action here
we go now we're getting into the session
stuff we want to get rid of that so
there's not actually going to log them
into Twitter we want to do something
else I'm not showing you how to do
something bad here what I want to do is
I want to show you how easy it is for
somebody with just a little bit of
know-how and I think that you you can
see how plain simple this is I'm all I'm
doing is I'm saying no don't go to
twitter.com / sign up where else we got
form class okay so have I got any action
equals there's one sign up delete that
action equals that's what the form does
when someone submits it it goes to
twitter.com / whatever I'm just deleting
all that stuff watch this
it looks like that's it so now I'm going
to save that I can uploaded to the
server and I literally have a dumb form
so now if i refresh this form does
nothing I can enter something in here
and i can hit sign in and there is
nothing that it does you'll see that
there are a couple of things here
javascript is you know involved here and
doing things like that if I click Sign
In it doesn't actually go anywhere
there's nothing that actually happens so
what's what's going on there so now me I
would go up to the very top of this file
and I just want to see what's happening
when this form processes and as simple
as that add some information to the form
if I can javascript kind of blocks me so
I got to edit that file a little bit
more to get rid of any of this extra
stuff that Twitter is doing let's see
what happens here
okay so my next step here is we want to
actually figure out okay how does this
form function and how do we grab that
information now deleted Twitter from it
all together and we can we can do that
we're not teaching you how to hack here
tonight what we're doing is showing you
how simple it is for a hacker to be able
to mimic the behavior of say Twitter
we're using Twitter as the example let's
just see here I'm going to upload that
file okay
so you see a couple of different things
here first of all user name and email
and then the submit happens so I can go
find username username or email there's
the field right there so we know that
we're in the form here method post okay
and so I'm just going to zip through
here so don't actually want to show you
how you know just kind of show you that
it can be done here we go
there's some interesting things
happening there with the JavaScript okay
my goodness I'm going cross-eyed I know
here we go
have I hit the you know five-minute kind
of 10 minute mark yet Oh what time do we
start I think it's probably like five
minutes alright so let's see I need to
kind of analyze this code a little bit
here
this house hackers kind of sit in
silence in the green glow it's very
ominous it is it is let's see what we
could get a lot of social interaction I
know okay okay labeled username class
see what's going on here
Oh attacker proof it's not it's not okay
there yeah that's what's being submitted
through the form yeah well something
like that this is live okay so see when
you submit the form there you go that's
the information that's being sent to
Twitter to whoever intercepts so now
with that very intense we needed like
some intense music there I really did
just a couple of moments you can see
that your password is submitted in plain
text your username or email is submitted
pardon me in plain text so let's see if
I can try that again let's pretend my
user name is Krista one okay there you
go and her password is krista's password
okay now solid password you'll notice
that the form did nothing but there's
the information that's been submitted
okay so username password good to go
I've got that information now what do I
want to do with it so that's part of the
process then you know what do I want to
do with it I can save it to a database
on a hacker right so I would that's what
I would do right I'm not a hacker the
guy I'm portraying as a hacker hacker so
with that information now okay so we
know this is frightening let's look at
that again we know that we have an array
called session and that's that array
contains username or email and password
so i can have that email to me i can
have that pop it in a database mm-hmm
what's the next step that a hacker's
going to do I don't get into your login
to your account change your password ah
so you can't get it thing you can't get
in how scary is that and then okay let's
say you've got 5,000 people that that
follow you on on Twitter right so now
they've got your account they then
change your username to some
to something else and then they have the
ability you know because you've got
5,000 people following you so all of a
sudden they're mass mailing or basically
tweeting to all these people I'm using
Twitter as the example all right but
we're not act this is not a twitter how
to hack Twitter a tutorial by any means
this is a frightening realization of how
easy it is for somebody to trick you
into giving them your information so
remember okay so here's here's the new
length that I've created it's fake it
looks real it takes the username and
password and I of course would touch up
the couple of little cosmetic things
like the the size of that text box but
no big deal and now okay well what what
happens next what what how would anyone
ever find that well what do we do we go
on to facebook we go into Twitter and we
say here's a famous one did you see this
picture of yourself right ah must look
at that have you seen that picture of
yourself Oh must Sign In sometimes that
message looks like it's coming from a
friend so you think oh ok I'll click on
it and find out what it is and then it
says oh you've got to log into Facebook
you've got to login to twitter yeah well
you're used to that ok well it's a it's
a path you know it's a private image so
I've got to log into my facebook account
enter your facebook you don't even look
at the address bar especially if you're
on a mobile phone shape it looks the
same it looks the same you're on a
mobile smartphone and so you don't even
see the address bar unless you actually
look up scroll up so your friend gets
compromised they get tricked into it
they get their password changed and then
that user now has the ability to private
message anyone who follows them remember
that's the way Twitter works so i can
now direct message to anybody i could
direct message to you all your followers
everybody and say oh did you see this
picture of you send them over now I've
got 5,000 more accounts if people are
willing to provide that information
that's like easy-peasy yeah so how else
would a hacker trick you
a hacker hacker okay I'm gonna log into
my email oh that's a popular one oh okay
I'm gonna go into my live at category 5
TV lots of energy from all the pizza and
beer okay I'm gonna compose a new email
cuz that's what we do us hackers we
compose emails okay so I find Krista's
email address yeah Krista add Krista is
awesome com okay so that just happens to
be your email address okay actually as
me and I just um okay so how will we
trick a Twitter user will we say your
twitter account will expire in three
days here's a pretty you know popular
trick okay not the Phi your Twitter
account and remember we're hackers so we
have to do stuff like this will expire
in three days unless you login please
login now now I'm being really stupid
with this okay because this is and this
has got to be an obviously fake
demonstration because I don't need legal
people after me I'm doing this just to
show you what what can I happen so we
already know that we you need to know
that it's a legitimate address so click
here I can't even see that whoa oh yeah
you can twitter.com slash log in we'll
just make that up because it looks legit
right click here to ensure your account
does not get deleted okay so now we've
got this legitimate address right watch
what the hacker is going to do they're
going to highlight that
okay we're gonna add a link to that and
we're gonna link to ah that that's
sneaky okay we insert that link what
does it look like thank you the Twitter
team ok I'm going to send this actually
to myself live at category 5 TV so that
you can see what what it is that we're
actually looking for here alright I'm
going to send that sent now keep in mind
that quite typically they're going to
make this look really legitimate they're
going to use company logos it's going to
have a twitter logo it's going to have
twitter colors and the font they're
going to be all set because if i had
time i wasn't on the air and i wanted to
actually show you how to make it look
like twitter so that you could be even
more afraid then that's fine but I'm not
doing that instead I'm just showing you
that this is how it works there it is my
Twitter account is going to expire in
three days that looks pretty legit
because it says click here to ensure
your login does not get deleted
twitter.com / login ok click it oh ok I
gotta log into my account see how it
happens that sneaky doesn't matter Nikki
if you're on linux or windows are back
Mac doesn't matter if you're on your
smartphone or if you have the latest and
greatest antivirus you've been tricked
that website is still up on my screen is
it the twitter.com / logon it's not dad
dad dad today so how did that work watch
this when I hover over that link what do
you see down at the bottom left of my
screen oh the legit link the actual link
see that if you're ever in doubt you can
usually now I'm on webmail so it always
works i can right click on it and go
copy link location ok now i can go into
my text editor or anything at all and i
can paste that and i can say wait a
minute that's not that's not true at all
so I know to watch out for that so there
it is so that is your you that would be
how it could be compromised through
email you get a skype message you know
chat message or instant messenger or
something like that same sort of thing
they can trick you into it sneaky sneaky
hackers mm-hmm always okay yes we
welcome your questions this is category
5 technology TV get into our chat room
category 5 on freenode and you can also
you can just message us there send us an
email live at category five dot TV it's
time for us to take a news break we're
going to talk to hear a little bit more
about what's coming what's going on in
hacker news and then we're going to come
back and talk to you a little bit more
about about phishing scams and how to
watch out for this kind of attack
alright they can take a drink campaign
all right inset I'd go up prep for that
all right yeah you know all right
everyone here are the top stories for
the category five dot TV news room
aviation agencies in Europe and the US
are keen to quiz a hacker who targeted
flight deck computers security
researcher Hugo Teso was able to hijack
the systems to feed false navigation
information to a simulated jet that made
it change course mr. Tesla built his
simulator using spare parts from reel
jets for sale on the ebay auction site
authorities say actual flight computers
are not compromised by his work but want
to find out more how easy would that be
just the collector things off ebay here
and there yeah and it sounds like okay
well it's not actual real jets that have
been compromised he's built one but
compromise that I proved that is that
again exactly so you don't want to
belittle the fact that he's done it cuz
who's to say he you know somebody
couldn't do that on a real jetliner
that's scary stuff right now if you're
flying to like what a peg or something
at a tree root 2 to like Tahiti Tahiti
yeah not so angry anyone
well darn no offense Winnipeg yeah none
kitchen area internet security experts
suddenly know more about the way hackers
are getting access to your smartphone
but they still don't have the software
to prevent it they asked me that that
the hackers are hitting and exploited
smartphones between 10 to 15 thousand a
day Bob Sullivan is a technology writer
for NBC News calm and he had a security
research as man tech show him how a
hacker hi Jackson innocent looking out
an application that you end up
downloading to your phone unaware that
you're giving the hacker is much control
over the phone as you have he says the
game is all about getting you to install
a piece of software that's malicious and
then they can do whatever you can do
with your phone anywhere on the planet
it sounds just like Facebook all the
apps that you install on Facebook same
sort of thing yep they've got your
access well there's apps everywhere now
everything is ass mm-hmm the hacker is
basically doing business using your
identity but collecting the proceeds
which can be lucrative as was found in
this case semantics semantics security
researcher vikram thakor said the
particular hacker they were monitor was
doing about 25,000 transactions per day
even if he was making fractions of a
dollar it was estimated that he was
making well over a million dollars per
day after switch jobs per year Oh per
year I'm sorry I caught that but that's
still millions of dollars yeah why are
we just fishing Twitter boy oh boy ooh
Sullivan says the hacking is almost
exclusively with phones with android
operating systems because unlike iphones
that they only download apps from the
apple store the android based phones can
download from anywhere hmm he suggests
if you're using android to get to only
get apps from the google play store and
quit treating your smartphones as if
it's not susceptible to attack good at
nicest thing i think it's a little bit
unfair how he kind of says it's all in
me all Android is this it's not entirely
it's more user knowledge about this kind
of attack it's like how we're talking
about phishing attacks tonight if you
don't know any better you'll just
install stuff if you don't know any
better you'll click on links and you'll
give your username and password so it's
about education I think Android you can
install APK files so you can download a
program and you can upload it to your
Android phone or tablet and install it
it's great when you need a nap
conveniently but that's true it can open
up exploits you got to be very careful
about what you trust again it comes back
to facebook to same thing don't install
stuff that you don't know and trust yeah
right and WordPress hmm has been
attacked by a botnet of tens of
thousands of individual computers since
last week according to CloudFlare
CloudFlare add hostgator wordpress
currently power 64 million websites read
by 371 million people each month the
botnet is targeting wordpress users with
the default used username admin tried
thousands of possible passwords the
attack began a week after WordPress
beefed up its security with an optional
two-step authentication login option
authentication login option still using
admin to login to your WordPress site
it's time to beef up your security and
change your username to something
stronger mm-hmm how many people have it
men like everyone it's like the default
de facto that's what it comes with
adding yeah you know what I do is I go
to safe passwd calm and it generates a
random like strong password and actually
never for you remember i should say
never remember you you so what i do is i
generate one for my username and another
one for my password you're like extra
strong yes Renee data I am extra strong
yes that's exactly right you'd never
guessed my my logins anyways I don't
know I think that's a good idea
yeah but how do you remember it without
having out like a postie note somewhere
or do you just spend all night one night
coin 8 j ll for capital because she
found my sticking out what gets me is
the admin tab password 1 enter how many
people have you know how many of our
viewers right now are guilty of that
right or I've had friends to that do 99
99 that's awesome I have customers and
because i administer websites like crazy
people send me you know their their
login credentials for their wordpress
blogs or for their youtube accounts and
twitter and facebook and i am amazed at
how many people use things like password
and how many people use the name of
their company right my name is robbie i
do not ever use robbie in my password or
my username you could go r0 gosh gee I
II don't know evergreen good just like I
have right there are 0 BB 13 that would
do still that's not super strong no
definitely not is it pretty predictable
happens a lot back mm-hmm-hmm-hmm you
could say folks keep it safe yes and
just when you thought there wasn't any
more exciting news there is and
microsoft's antivirus software microsoft
security essentials has yet again failed
a certification test from av-test
institute and german testing lab reno
renowned and respected for as
anti-malware software evaluations of the
25 software evaluated 3 did not receive
certification and lab ahn lab v3
internet security eight point 0 pc tools
internet security 2012 and microsoft's
security essentials well denying
microsoft security essentials
certification av-test said products had
to demonstrate the capabilities using
all components and protection layers in
the case of microsoft's product it
scored a mere one point five out of six
in protection Wow well the pc tools
product bombed
the score of just 1.0 out of six in
repair and an lab scored so poorly we
can't even say it's like negative 20
years something probably that is that a
true stat that's one for real out of my
head mmm Microsoft went on the defense
and protested against the results on its
official blog called unreliable
defending the software as the most used
in North America and other parts of the
world the poor world what being the most
used has to do with anything is beyond
us but I suppose it gives us the right
to say congratulations to Microsoft for
fooling so many people into using their
placebo product mm hmm interesting yeah
you know you get what you pay for you
want free antivirus there you go one
point six out of six and no
certification hmm just goes to show ya
all these people are say I have
protection yeah and how many people have
come to have said you got to pay for
your antivirus on a regular basis right
like once a year once every two years
once every three years depending on what
time you bought right so if you gotta
renew and then you say you know what I
installed security essentials so I don't
need to renew anymore so you got
something like ESET that is you know one
of the best products on the market and
is consistently tested very very well by
third parties like AV test and then you
got security essentials it's free yay
well let's just do that and they won't
even certify it because it's so bad
that's got to tell you something all but
they have a cool castle I got no it's
not a cool little castle it is like just
a piece of a castle oh such as like top
of the cap yeah it's kind of like just a
piece of like look at the size of the
flag and then you figure this the the
the castle itself is only about this big
I guess is the thing I'm fine bill
gates's desk and they took a picture
gasps yeah like a little Legos hello
Lego Cal very secure fortress at all i
can actually it's only up to my waist so
i can just climb right into it oh one of
those look like a pool it's got pool
inside ah it's like a little moat around
the outside you can see the reflection
in the water and then but it's only up
to your knees oh we debunk dear
yeah well enough about that haha
tonight's show is brought to you in part
by netflix camp five dot TV / netflix
hey go on over there get yourself a free
one month trial of netflix that's
something that you get for free that is
actually worth your while definitely
worth your while go check it out also we
love to save you money so category five
is also brought to you in part by net
talk now they've got unlimited text
messaging eliminate the need for a
wireless text plan from your cell phone
provider upgrade your nettalk duo
account to a net talk text plan for the
cost of a couple of cups of coffee a
month you're going to receive unlimited
texting throughout the USA and canada
check out cap five TV / phone and you
can start saving money today with net
talk thank you to all of our sponsors
and thank you for supporting our
sponsors every time that you go and buy
a product from them or sign up go
through the links click on their banners
it supports the show and so we
appreciate you going through that
process as well absolutely all right i
want to give shouts out we've got
viewers tonight on youtube i see you
there we've got our google+ hangout
we're going to be hanging out after the
show as well we're going to run a little
bit over the eight o'clock hour those of
you who are watching along in the chat
logs tonight note that we were about 15
minutes into the hour before we got
started so hey the blip TV miro internet
TV we love you watching us on Miro if
you've got a set top box that has our
show built into the to the chip that's
kind of cool we like that and we love
having you watch that's awesome stuff
first run TV nice to have you watching
through first run TV also roku carries
category 5 TV nice to be there as well
kind of all over the place right
everywhere yeah if we haven't mentioned
here UV near you yeah like if we didn't
mention your platform make sure you send
us the an email jawed will say in the
chat room you know what about justin TV
absolutely what about you stream
absolutely there's just too many
dimension of the time frame yeah it
would be like a whole page looking
my page and it's already like a half of
it we've got a really cool youtube
channel called linux tech show you can
get there real quick link as linux tech
show com what we've done is we've taken
category 5 TV we take the features and
we compile them into little short
snippets right so when we say something
awesome oh yeah is that awesome thing we
have to watch the awesome thing hey
watch as many times as you want it's
like you can make a playlist and add it
like 30 times yeah and then just watch
the awesome together we say over and
over it's kind of like that uh where
else are we that's that's that's it you
know so good a couple more minutes I
want to talk to you a little bit we're
gonna continue on talking can we just
discuss the the whole phishing scam
thing sure isn't right let's chat all
right let's get over to the chat room
here all right nice to see a chat room
the phishing scam thing I mean here's
the thing is that you're you're able to
be tricked by so many different
mechanisms I have received letters in
the mail that are phishing scams that
trick me into giving my credit card
information in order to renew my domain
you know it's serious when snail mail
tries to get you oh you don't even need
a computer anymore to be fit check this
out i'm going to go back over here i'm
going to bring up my web browser and i'm
going to show you something really kind
of crazy do you have a domain i can I
can do what's called a who is on that
domain I can do it that way and I'll
give it to me in my browser I can go
into my terminal and I can get it there
I can just go who is category five dot
TV gives me all that information there's
my mailing address oh just easy like
that just right there's my phone number
everything is available and not only
that but the registration information is
available where it's pointing and when
it expires so companies say okay well
this is expiring on November
30th of 2013 so they add that to their
database they say okay category 5 TV is
going to be expiring on November 30 of
2013 a lot of people want to build their
own website they want to build their own
blog they want to have control so what
do they do they register their own
domain they don't want to have to rely
on another company because for some
reason we have this fear of not having
control so then you get a letter a month
let's say October thirtieth I get a
letter and it's very official and it
says your domain is coming up for
renewal oh yeah it is you're right so
instantly I trust them because they know
how hard was it for me to figure that
out I took you like five got my address
it could be your address I've got the
expiry date I've got phone number I've
got all that stuff I make it look very
official dear mr. Ferguson your domain
category five dot TV is coming up for
renewal I got all that information just
by typing who is category five dot TV so
I got this letter at the footer of the
letter it says you know call this number
and we'll process a renewal for you or
fill in this page and we'll take your
credit card number and you can mail it
back to us old-school style because some
people still like old-school so you do
that so you fill it in and you fold it
up and it comes with a self-addressed
stamped envelope they make it too easy
goes to them and now they've got your
credit card number they've got all that
information but what's worse they've got
your domain so your website which used
to be category 5 technology TV is now
some adult website and you have no way
to get it back your business website is
now gone and somebody else has access to
it and control over it scares those
people visiting it your reputation is
gone yeah or worse they could leave it
up and you don't they could renew it for
you and say okay well good all right
we'll make it look like everything is
hunky-dory but now all your email goes
through their server mm-hmm they get and
they get all of our email and they can
go to paypal and they can go to Royal
Bank and then go to TD bank and they can
go
got password here's my email address
which I know because I've just tricked
these people into giving me their domain
and or I can set up a catch-all on my
domain and I just go you know so I've
got the email address for TD you know my
banking information forgotten password
he send it send to my email they
intercept that email now I've got it
I've got access to your banking so it
goes even worse than you know it's even
worse than just your website Heather you
were talking this week who by email I
mean another scary thing is we've got
tax season right now and so you know
we're starting starting to your eyes and
people receiving tax forms and you know
fill in this and we'll send it back
we've got websites that are tricking
people into filling in their tax
information online because that's the
new way to do it but only deal with the
ones that you know and trust otherwise
you could become a victim of you know
imagine your taxes every little bit of
financial information about you
including your social security number
right all that stuff the ideal just the
the building blocks of identity theft
are right there so why is it scary as we
can create the ability to open up
twitter so that i can receive your
username and password because i can do
that for facebook i can do that for your
online banking i can do that for any
website that you need to log into i
could buy the methods that we showed you
tonight we can trick you into entering
your username and password give me your
paypal username now I've got access to
your paypal account what's the first
thing I do the hacker I change your
password and then I can wreak havoc I
can destroy your reputation I can get
into your facebook account and change
your username so that now all of a
sudden all of your friends are now
connected to this guy named whoever
mm-hmm they don't even know who it is
but they're apparently friends with them
and now they're bombarded with all
different things that you don't want
them to be seeing right mm-hmm once you
have one password most people just do
the same password for everything
that's enough scary thing right there's
a password for everything think about
that one if you do that and get changing
your passwords right away if I can get
your you know you sign up for an online
website and it's just some website you
don't really care at some form you just
want to comment on this post on
someone's blog so I sign up and I use
you know it requires me to login so I
login I use the same password that i use
for my online banking but guess what I
also use the same email address that i
use for my online banking no problem I
trust this guy well enough and so and so
and so and so but then somebody hacks
into their database and it turns out
that their database is plain text and
your passwords are easily readable and
all of a sudden your email address they
can log into they can log in to your
online banking all that stuff and again
that's just another way for people to
trick you sneaky people out there hmm
any questions in the chat room are we
you know are we I hope that we're if
anything kind of shedding some light on
what hackers do to trick you uh you al
you know so that would an add-on that
notifies or on redirects help prevent
the first Twitter scam you demonstrated
no redirects are if for example back at
my file if I were to see if I can find
it here alright so back at my file
a redirect would be me going all right
something like that but before I do that
I first grabbed all of your personal
information that was submitted in the
post and I email it to myself because
that is a redirect so it might it might
catch on to some of those kinds of
things but what we were doing is we're
actually creating a new website that
doesn't already exist making it kind of
you know tricking you into thinking that
it is Twitter or Facebook or your
banking but we're not actually doing any
redirecting in fact the form doesn't
work it does nothing you'll just go oh
what's going on why doesn't my password
work why isn't it again type it in again
so now you just verify no yeah that's
the right password and then immediately
I mean if most most hackers would you
know like to automate things so that
it's going to automatically go in and
change your password almost
instantaneously unless they're you know
they're sitting at their computer and
they want to just do it manually but if
they're collecting loads and loads of
them they're going to do it
automatically right so you'd be amazed
at how quickly all of that can go down
the drain frightening stuff right well
if you've got questions about security
if you're worried about the security of
your account first and foremost change
your password make sure each of your
accounts have different passwords as
kristas mentioning and and if you have
any questions for us email live at
category-five TV and if anything tonight
I hope that we've shed some light on
some of the strategies that are that are
out there spoofing links in email being
able to mimic the behavior and look of
famous web sites like Twitter like your
online banking and and how easy it is
for somebody to do that we did it live
here I even hit a couple snags there
with JavaScript and yet we still had it
done in 10 minutes flat right and I
didn't take any further than that I
could have easily taken that data your
username and password and done anything
I wanted with it
I could set up a redirect you're talking
about redirects I could have set it to
email me the information or populated
database and then redirect to the
official twitter login so it actually
logs you in you never know the
difference you'd never know how they got
your information scary world out there
really is and it's happening mm-hmm so
it's up to us to you know to tell you
that it's happening and how it's
happening and and try to keep you safe
I've mentioned Facebook a couple times
tonight don't add or like anything that
you don't actually trust or like because
it happens to don't like things just to
be nice have to be well how many
businesses get compromised you saw was
it Burger King that somebody because
they had a stupid password to their
Twitter account that somebody was able
to change them they put in a whole bunch
of McDonald's branding or something like
that on their Twitter account it was it
was crazy thing like that so of course
they're defaced but the hacker if you
will could have easily enough just
changed the password or not even change
the password because maybe they wouldn't
even caught on for a little while and
just utilize the fact that there are
billions of people that follow Burger
King and all of a sudden make
connections so that those people are now
following some other company yeah we
take Burger King and change the password
lock them out and then change the
username to crystal wells now crystal
Wells has all of gotchu all all of the
Burger King followers you see women so
then so if you think you trust all these
companies it happens to them too because
they don't practice happen in good
security either yeah it can happen to
anyone it's not just not just us home
users yeah so be smart be careful and if
in doubt email is live at category 5 TV
I quite often just receive four words
and people ask me for advice with
regards to particular emails and things
can I do my best to keep up I do get a
lot of email in a week as you can
imagine we do our best mmm popular guy
nobody's watching this aria
oh he's so proud yes slyly what oh cool
retro pads cuz we're hackers see that's
the whole story the whole thing I
mentioned a little bit is they like it
yeah you do I know you do I like their
specs I'd mention a little bit about
ESET tonight and you know smart
antivirus dot CA cells to both Canada in
the US and you can certainly get in
touch with with them and they'll hook it
up with anywhere in the world something
that I wanted to mention with them and
on Bald nerd calm my blog bald nerd calm
not hard to remember just look at my
chance what you would think forget it
just go what is his website address
again yeah bald nerd calm I had posted a
post this week because something
interesting happened on Friday is
somebody called me up and said I've got
this new ESET smart security six it's a
home product and you can get it for 12
however many computers you have comes
with this new feature called anti-theft
we've had a couple of different
discussions about it on the show here
and it's really cool it's a real cool
step up for the antivirus product and
the whole security suite if you're on
Microsoft Windows the user this customer
said to me I don't need it like what do
you mean I've got this old computer I
don't care if somebody breaks in and
steals my computer I don't care about
the computer it's like a hundred China
my chest like a hundred bucks who cares
about my computer right you hit the nail
on the head right there you must read my
blog oh all the time just leave that at
that for your own protection that's
exactly right it's not about the
computer and I said to him what about
your jewelry your wife's jewelry what
about the money that you have tucked in
a drawer in the bedroom or all of the
other snatch-and-grab things that are in
your house so your laptop's worth
nothing who cares if someone steals it
whatever what about your TV what about
this or that you know what if you know
something worse were to take place
right your computer then because of ESET
anti-theft becomes a way to pinpoint
those things somebody breaks in and
steals a whole bunch of stuff who cares
about the laptop right but because you
had you said auntie theft activated you
can track it down and you can track down
all the other things too because it's
all together then taken at the same time
by the same person probably sitting in
the same room an interesting thing about
auntie theft is like quite often it
would be some kid that breaks in and
steals you know stuff Hilary last week
had her ipod stolen and we said you know
had it been an adult that stole that
broke in they would have stole the gps
mm-hmm not necessarily the ipod right
yeah so the confident more that's
breaking in to steal stuff so they set
up the new laptop in their bedroom and
tell their mom that you know I bought it
from from Joe you know with my allowance
money that I've been saving up and ya
know so she thinks nothing of it it's
used and it's it's looking a little bit
all because remember it's a piece of
junk right but then moms cleaning the
room and up on the screen pops up this
thing this laptop is stolen little
Billy's in trouble phone this number and
it's got your phone number and
everything yeah Billy's in big trouble
man big big trouble and that's what
auntie theft gives you a smart antivirus
not see a check them out if you have any
windows computers we heard tonight about
microsoft security essentials being not
the way to go and some of the other ones
especially the free ones are just you
know terribly wide open for you you want
to go with something that's tried and
true commercial products are going to be
better ESET is one of the best so check
them out smart antivirus CA well I think
that leaves us so that takes us to about
an hour odds about it yeah he's
everybody for joining us tonight did you
have fun I had lots of fun yeah packing
so you had fun delton Stephanie yes
denlinger like like that I'm also good
to be here like once a year yeah you're
gay we're often will you missed your
last shift shift yeah I had been had to
switch yeah so so that is why it seems
so long really yeah hey get on to our
website this week category five dot TV
and lots lots of cool stuff over there
and you can catch all of the episodes
that have ever happened right there and
of course you can email us off the
website get in touch get your questions
in live at category 5 TV krista always
good happy here to be here yeah but I'm
here it's fun if you're a retro gaming
fan next week erica is going to be on
the show with me we're going to be
looking at how far gaming has come in 30
years so you don't want to miss that if
you're into the retro Ganci gonna be
lots of fun right folks have a great
week and we'll see you next Tuesday
night stay safe see you guys ok
if you enjoy the show category 5 TV
broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada open tuesday at seven p.m.
eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is nice
creative commons attribution 2.5 canada
we'll see you next time thanks for
tuning in
you
