this is kind of like a continuation of
last week's episode where we were
talking about this amazing amazing
soldering job the Robin did so go so
valiant effort it actually described it
worked by some kind of television
miracle it worked yes Jeff do you
remember way back on episode number 431
when you recommended that I buy battery
power battery powered soldering iron yes
do you remember that I do I just want to
say for the record it sucks let's be
clear that is not the one I had oh let's
be clear don't one's not the same it's
not exactly the same model it's a
battery powered soldering iron
mine's great though is it great what is
it great for it's great for little
at-home projects little at-home projects
okay yeah like I will fix lightbulbs you
know you can just replace them right no
how do you fix lightbulbs when um like
you build a new filament out of solder
no like I like to tinker so like with
Christmas bulbs you know how there's the
wires that come in yeah sometimes
they'll break and I just don't feel like
all right you know buying a new one or
whatever so you put them back together
no just heat them up put them together
and they work great all right I'll put
together some of the kids toys at break
where they've got a little metal element
stuff like that so so last week Jeff I
built this board here and I did a
smashingly good job
oh my Quasimodo man maybe we should pay
attention to the 5 volt it looks pretty
good hey that looks better yeah that
looks pretty yeah that looks pretty good
and I was using this wireless thing and
I really don't like it and I said to the
viewers I really don't like it so I know
I'm blaming my tools right mm-hmm but I
put new batteries in it for the sake of
the demonstration and still didn't
really heat up very well wasn't really
working how did you use it though poorly
I am an amateur okay and I am an
admitted amateur
you're learning is that quick heat up
pretty quick I'd say like 40 seconds
mine is like a five-second heat up oh
you and you're showing fine but like I
would never start using it - five
seconds I let it heat up and then I keep
the iron working with then I throw the
solder in okay lots of advice came in
after last week's show
of course we tackle this Sasha yes
you've got your list of comments that
came in first of all I'm gonna start
with circuit man's comment yeah circuit
man says it's okay for me to do that
because they get longer and angrier as
the comments go on no everybody thank
you so much for your kindness that was
very kind this week circuit man says
awesome show and Robbie your soldering
is better than mine it's good start yay
for someone named circuit man I figure
that you were probably in the know so I
appreciate that very much
right Robert Putnam said that soldering
iron is fine but your soldering
technique is backward why the wipe the
hot tip off with the cloth so there's
minimal solder left ideally the tip will
be shiny use the clean tip to heat
whatever you're soldering and feed this
solder onto that piece not the soldering
tip right what's happening with your
method is that the solder is oxidizing
and preventing any flow to the piece
okay all right that makes sense so I did
a poor job by touching the solder to the
hot tip and then touching the tip to the
yes okay okay next up from Eiger wold
firewalled flux is magic pen SMD or
paste through-hole okay also well I've
seen I've seen flux right sorry - did I
girl won't say something else also said
yeah you need some desoldering - tools
oh okay - concept first comment is about
the flux so the solder that I bought has
2% flux so I am a novice I'm not using
solder I'm not using flux in addition to
the solder
I'm using one with a rosin core right so
is that is that gonna help me out is
that gonna work
now I understand though from from just
doing a little bit of research since our
feature last week that by touching it to
the tip first it's hot and I'm actually
burning off the the the flux before I
get to the board right so I'm kind of
counter printer acting the effects of
having a flux core right but the solder
itself has built in flux now if you had
a flux capacitor you can go back and
tell yourself not to make that mistakes
that's true in the flux core it says 2%
on this a/c 128 D says it's not 2% it
actually said what does it say there
says flux 2% 2% diameter 0.6 and a bunch
of numbers that I don't know what they
mean
next up from Agarwal as well sorry yeah
just that you need some D soldering
tools GE soldering tools
okay I'm gonna we're gonna come back to
that one okay okay d soldering is like
I've got boxes of circuit boards and
motherboards that are dead that I want
to be able to desolder so remove some of
the components so that I can then reuse
them so it's like getting free stuff
from a waste base right right I get some
resistors get some capacitors loads of
capacitors lots of headers things like
that C 128 D says 63 slash 37 solder
which has 37 percent flux 37 percent wow
that's a lot of flux that's like what
Wow
okay I didn't even know such a thing
existed well now you do hmm okay and
knowing is half the battle wait I know
better you do better all right learning
here tonight to merge man personally I
would never use a battery-powered
soldering iron okay there is too much
risk of a cold solder joint earth cold
solder joints and flaky connection not
that we encountered any of that not that
we encountered any of that during our
feature as the battery drains and if you
do a lot of soldering good luck finding
the bad joints right as Robert Putnam
stated the technique is to heat the
joints and touch the solder to the
underside of
the iron well in place on the joints
okay the solder should flow nicely on
into the connection be careful too much
solder and it will flow out the other
side of the board and you have a glob of
solder that can cause a short if the
solder balls up instead of flowing the
joint isn't hot enough so do you think
that that's all it is is that I'm just
not I'm not heating up the joint first
like if I actually if I bring this up
for you so let's get a look here so
let's get a look at one of my terrible
joints and get so I'm gonna get out the
same wireless soldering iron I'm just
gonna take 45 seconds so lean it no I
haven't cleaned it I've got I've got
this wire thing but now it was mentioned
there that we need to get like a sponge
or something to to actually clean it off
now I've got this like wire cleaner that
I've seen people use and I thought hey
that's cool dollar store sells those so
hey that works right and it does work
but it's not a wet sponge right so if I
heat this up is it going to make a
difference let's get some of my 2% flux
solder and let's see how this goes
alright so I'm going to heat that right
up first let's use this one because this
one looks like I didn't get any solder
on there whatsoever p1 so what they're
saying is heat that up right and let
these let's get some heat in there then
you let the the clen into the heated
area so you don't heat it let's
straighten up my solder there and let it
draw it in
okay mmm
oh there's the flux oh yeah oh okay Wow
oh you did it what a diff made that
looks really good Thank You Sasha what a
change from your attitude last well then
so I hate to be Captain Obvious
what does the battery powered unit work
does it work yes yeah and I put new
batteries in it for the sake of the
demonstration rat last week absolutely
okay it does like I had it turned on so
I feel fit I feel vindicated okay
viewers thank you so much this is part
of what I love about category 5 TV
versus other webcast other TV shows is
that we're very we try to be very
interactive and this is an opportunity
for you to to teach us and in so we're
kind of bringing that about and bringing
it back to the viewers as well so
hopefully this is a good learning
experience for all of us that's true
next up so Shaun White any channel of
this says amazing five five five episode
episode five five five last week nice
work
amazing tech tips love the micro tech I
smell espionage tactics nope that is
flux it says well done after 555
episodes still by far the best tech show
out there and a lot keep up the amazing
work Wow thanks Shaun so even when you
have a horrible soldering job we're
still the best thing 5 was amazing and
p1 was great yes so just a now that
you've got the solder working imagine
how more amazing five five six is gonna
be oh five five six we've already shown
you right how good five five six is
right JME was five five five a
coincidence I'm about where Robbie is
with this stuff and soon you'll find out
that five five five is a somewhat
special number in beginning intermediate
electronics
I did not know that the timing circuit
555 no that was entirely unintentional
last week just ya know we we've been
doing the show for every single week for
555 weeks
specifically so specifically so that
Robbie could do a miserable soldering
job with a miserable tool that's what we
been working toward like everything led
up to that moment no we didn't and we
didn't intend how that wasn't a plan
well we just needed a baseline soldering
job from you so that we can get that so
that now we can see on episode 1055 how
far Robbie is count exactly and and it
would be a robot in my place yeah yeah
next up V to veto Jojo CR some comments
on your soldering to make some
improvements ok so here we go once again
showing how the community comes together
and is directing us and giving us
feedback that is going to improve our
soldering job
yes so number one use lead-based solder
unless you want it to fail ok your
solder and iron can also work at lower
temperatures with lead-based solder ok
that's interesting I didn't know that
the reason there's a couple of reasons
that I switched from LED now here in
Canada I cannot get I can't get approval
to sell devices that I create if they
contain lead solder right so I decided
to change to let free because I do
intend to eventually get to the point
where I'm good enough that hey some of
the things that I'm building can be
sellable right we're not there yet don't
worry I'm not selling anything joints
could be yours
earlier when see 20 ad said 6337
yeah that's the tin lead ratio so that
wouldn't work ok if I see if you're
gonna be ok so that's that's one of the
reasons yes for more views but for if
you're gonna resell it you can't use
that
but for hole right you should be fine
okay so there's two other reasons I
don't have good ventilation that's
reason number two so I don't want to be
breathing it in I don't want to feel
like the Mad Hatter great hobby but I
don't I don't really need cancer right
now and so I'll learn with lead-free
I'm happy with that good call third
reason kind of stems from that but also
my kids I really want my kids to
participate and so part of it is getting
their hands on the sod or getting in
there and we're using lead-free solder
so that I don't feel worried that my my
10 year old is putting his fingers in
his mouth after soldering something with
a let let course right so there's a
couple of things there so absolutely
sure LED lead-based solder may be better
for some uses especially in you know
professional soldering jobs but I think
for me I'm gonna stick with the
lead-free so we just got to make it work
right okay number two yeah point number
two you don't add the solder to the tip
until you've heated up what you're
soldering then and only then you have
the solder thank you okay so uh yeah
Marsh man commented on that as well so
yes excellent point and we proved
tonight that Dottie is a very good
comment right number three if you put
the solder on the tip you need to clean
it off just like that except everything
that you did you need to undo Robbie I
heard you saying thinking that yes so
the longer the solder is on the tip of
your iron the more flux you destroy oh
just what I was saying yes and I
probably it was in my head because of V
- Josie R's comment right having read it
earlier mm-hmm very interesting and good
point that I'm actually burning off the
flux yes which is going to cause issues
with my solder joint absolutely and I
understand that so that's cool and then
keeping in line with that whoo flux is
your friend
it helps solder the helps the solder to
connect to your components he says as a
bonus tip but I'm bomb please watch my
solder and where you make an attempt to
put these what please watch some better
people solder before you make an attempt
that's soldering on TV hey come on now
come on okay so let's back up and talk a
little bit about what category 5
represents and and first before I get
into that I want to tell you and
everyone viewing never let someone tell
you don't show what you are learning
don't write no never be afraid
to fail never be afraid to show that I'm
not good at this I'm learning and the
reason I say that is because I think if
we all need to achieve this excellence
before we're willing to share it with
the world then category five wouldn't
exist I'm proud of you oh this is really
that's a really great message just right
across the whole globe it's what
category five represents like we started
with a webcam and we stepping-stone dour
way up yeah and we're looking at
stepping stones tonight and and along
that line never ever feel that way you
need to be able to fail and you need to
be able to do it in the public eye and
it's okay it's okay to have friends that
love it and it is absolutely and it's
cool to learn and I love this show
because I can I can learn with you and
we can learn together and and I
appreciate your comments and we're we're
learning together I get a pretty good
solder joint there yeah yeah how many
times have we done episodes where you're
programming something oh and it fails
yeah it just goes horribly wrong but
that's part of what makes the show great
is because some of those shows are the
greatest shows to learn from shows you
watch it you go oh my goodness I've made
the same mistake real - well yeah and
there are a lot of great shows yeah and
we're not just CG we're there a lot of
great shows on YouTube and on the on
television that they figure everything
out beforehand and they do it when it's
perfect
yes and so then I as the layperson feel
like I I'm not at that level I can't
achieve this I can't try this yeah let's
start here and let's work our way up
together you know to be honest it wasn't
pretty but it worked it worked like you
did it I did it I did it
go team yeah all right thank you for the
comment I appreciate that
so c128 d yes first has said recently in
the chatroom that you need to use
separate flux paste if you're using
lead-free okay so important so let me
get this straight even though I have a
2%
flux core in my solder so I thought oh
well it has flux built-in so I don't
need to buy flux are you telling me I
need to go out and buy flux paste so
that I can add that to my solder joints
before I heat them up that is that the
idea right c128 is he is here with us
live we'll move on with yours right
shouldn't come back to your response to
that question okay so see 128 D also
says Robbie you don't need to spend a
lot of money to get a decent soldering
iron all you need is one that plugs into
a wall outlet and runs off of AC current
any of the Weller line would work out
quite well for your needs and are
reasonably priced just select one that
is between 20 and 40 watts Amazon
carries them for about fifteen to twenty
dollars fifteen to thirty dollars us not
sure what that isn't Canadian rupees and
they do an excellent job welder Weller
so I can't say this daughter daughter
sold there's an element we're gonna get
one of our biggest fans is gonna say
it's solder no it's solder it's solder
yeah I'm just always gonna try and say
so
Weller soldering station normally
started about $100 u.s. okay getting one
of the regular irons now and having it
as a backup when you can afford the
soldering station wouldn't be a waste of
money either
yeah the iron is more portable and less
of a hassle for a quick and dirty repair
for a quick and dirty repair than the
station is but the main thing is that
just about any AC powered soldering iron
will be better than a battery-powered
toy be sure to use 60-37 solder it's
better for electrical work than 60/40
okay see 120 ad you set it without
saying at stepping stones right because
in my mind I'm thinking I need a
soldering station I need the I need the
at least the entry level of the best
right right bang on my friend this is
what it's about is finding that stepping
stone so cheap battery-powered doesn't
really do a very good job the batteries
don't last long the batteries don't last
long enough for doing a good size
project no so that's why it's good for
small things for like a quick like two
joints yes and then your
done now I love what c128 D pointed out
here that you can get away with just a
standard soldering iron which is a big
step up from this little guy but not
going to cost me the amount of a my
dream station so I can pack my way up to
that soldering station great but right
now I can get started with something a
little less very cool and I did know and
I did you do first let's look at David
fear okay David fear says get one of
these and points us to a link to a $70
OLED programmable soldering iron
okay on banggood very cool but still $70
so I may as well look at the hundred
dollar soldering station at that point
it's starting to get a little bit close
to the price and recommends as well that
we look at 63 37 or 6040
leaded solder going back to my comments
so based on largely what c128 Dee said
about being able to start with something
cheap and work your way up and then
still use that old one as just for the
little drink the tinkering here and
there told it works and then based on
reading what David fear sent and saying
hey yeah we can do that I got on Amazon
and you can head on over to cat5 dot TV
slash solder kit and it arrived already
so obviously available on Prime and I
picked one of these up let's see and it
is way microscopic compared to what I
was expecting I was expecting from the
picture but this was going to be like a
full size toolbox right that's it's like
a mini like a mini toolbar yeah okay
let's get this out of the way so that I
can show you folks that so this was the
next step from this this cost me $30 now
I'll tell you see 120 ad you mentioned
like the 16 dollar Weller's and things
like that I got on Amazon I started
looking around and the cheapest that we
could get here in Canada was $22
Canadian and it was not brand name and
it was just a cheap soldering iron right
why I went with this kit it's only eight
dollars more it came with the box
it came with extra tips and it came with
some extra essentials so let's get in
here and this is going to also take us
back to our Wald's comment about having
solder D soldering tools right okay
let's get in here so into the box boom
first and foremost a solder sucker oh
there you go is that for excess solder
oh that's fun it also pinches your face
is that for excess like this is for
removing solder so you can heat up the
solder and then suck up okay got so that
you can remove chips and things and
reuse or fix when you mess things up so
that if if you ask me that's worth
probably the extra eight dollars anyway
it came with a whole bunch of solder now
what is this lead-free solder wire
perfect this is 2.0 flux 20 20 gauge no
a zero point eight millimeter versus my
zero point six that I have here so
similar to what I have but it's got a
lot yeah 20 grams I guess that is okay
so it's got this itty bitty tiny tool
box
how cute is that all right it's got a
box with in there what do we have and
remember this was only $30 so okay what
do you expect for $30 it's got a little
stand that is basically just a cheap
little tray right with a couple of nuts
that hey you you can hold your soldering
iron oh yeah and it's got a sponge that
you can wet to clean it so I didn't have
one of these now I do so that's cool
but it's not as nice of a holder as my
helping hands so I'll probably just end
up using my helping hands anyways but if
you don't already have helping hands
that's something anyway it's in the box
kind of thing okay what else have we got
we've got a couple of a couple of
tweezers
these are anti-static and I like that
the tweezers that I have have become
magnetic so I needed new oh really
yeah so it's a pain because I'm working
with little itty bitty resistors and
they're magnetized to the songs which is
really really hard
then we've got the soldering iron
obviously but a couple of extra things
that came in the kit it's got D
soldering wire that's cool
soldering desoldering wire I can put
this on all those bad joints that I made
right and I can remove I can touch this
to it and heat it up and it will suck in
the solder absorb it and then I take it
away and the solder is off of the joint
no yeah so I need this when I correct
the soldering joints yes I've created
okay then I've got my soldering tool
here you go now what is what really
excited me about this and Dave fear
pointed it out on the one for $70 let's
actually bring this up through the
magnifier the through the microscope so
you can see what I'm seeing here it has
a temperature gauge and it goes from 22
part me from 200 C all the way up to 450
and it's just a dial so for a cheap
little thing that's pretty good look at
what else we've got
it does go up to 60 watts so it's a
pretty you know it's gonna heat up
pretty quickly yeah apparently should do
a pretty good job we'll see we'll see I
mean we're gonna be checking it out on
future demonstrations and seeing how it
works so but then it also came with one
two three four five two extra tips so
we've got some extra tips there that
came with this and each one is a little
bit different for different jobs you're
going to expect that as I grow and learn
how each one works then that's going to
be cool so if I remove this I can see
there's my tip well so you just slide
and then it's got a ceramic core so the
ceramic core apparently I'm learning is
very quick to heat up yes and so that's
a good thing I have a hair straightener
that's similar oh yeah that's good I
like that it has the adjustable
temperature mm-hmm
and it does have also an inline power
switch which was an added bonus because
you normally have to unplug one of these
kind rights soldering irons so it's a
good start I think this is a great
little thirty bucks yeah and it's
available in our shop now cat5 TV slash
solder kit now I've been able to get
obviously it's available here in
as you see it here it's also available
in the United States as you see it here
in the UK they don't have exactly the
same kit but I found one that's very
similar and it's only 14 pounds so man
you can check that out and it even has a
couple of extra things in the UK but I
obviously can't test it because it's a
little bit different but it looks like
about the same thing and it is what it
is it's a cheap soldering iron but it's
better than what I have and it's ready
to get me started exactly and I liked
that it came with all this extra stuff
that I'm going to need anyways for my
projects and just a cheap little case
which appeases might need to have
organization because otherwise
everything just sits in a cardboard box
is it a quick cool solder iron as well
well I haven't plugged it in yet but I
don't expect so no okay I didn't read
anything about it being anything special
yes yeah it is quick to heat up yeah
which is good yeah but I can put it in
my my helping hands turn off the power
switch which I guess is gonna help
anyways because being able to turn off
the power switch and turn it back on and
it's got quick heating then should work
pretty well but we will find out on a
future episode how much better that
works then my my old battery-powered
soldering irons so you don't want to
miss some of the features that we've got
coming up and do check out that Kit Kat
5 TV slash solder kit now I know it is
just a cheap kit it's gonna get you
started it's going to improve our game
it's gonna help me to do a little bit
better when it comes to soldering and
some of the things that we're learning
here on category 5 technology TV is
really helpful as well if you've got
comments you want to share with us
comment below or head over to our
YouTube channel on our website category
5 TV if you're watching on cable TV
there are so many different ways that
you can interact with us we'd love to
hear from you and love to find out what
what we could do better
[Music]
[Applause]
you
