what you're about to experience is a
free worldwide interactive broadcast
from Ontario Canada we broadcast live
every tuesday at seven p.m. eastern time
get your questions in join the community
chat room at triple w category 5 TV or
email us at live at category 5 TV and
now let's begin here's your host Robbie
Ferguson's welcome to episode number 182
of category 5 technology TV it is so
good to see you it's Tuesday March the
15th have you seen how do you stay
almost we're two days off one of these
days it's gonna fall right on a Tuesday
night but for now I'm Robbie Ferguson
I'm crystal wealth nice to see it
tonight we are going to be diving right
back into our series on how to develop
professional looking websites and Krista
is joining us here as a professional
graphic designer and going to be helping
us with that that feature so stick
around tonight we're gonna be learning
to slice up those images that we were
working on last week yeah I'll be new
for me today yeah yeah that's exciting
we're gonna do something really
interesting I was talking to crystal
before the show and I said wouldn't it
be fun if we took your photoshop and
battled it against the gimp so we got
two computers in front of us we've got
two copies of the PSD file yeah a bit of
a disadvantage I haven't done this
before i'm actually that photoshop i
know i know it's a disadvantage for sure
Wirecast we're gonna be talking about
how how you can win a copy of Wirecast
that's the free that's the software that
we use which you're going to be able to
win for free and it is
what we use to broadcast category 5 TV
here so stick around we're gonna be
talking about how you can help us to to
pick who is going to win that software
and lots more coming up and Hillary
joining us in the newsroom hey hell hey
everyone got lots of great exciting
things happening this episode on
category 5 coming up in the newsroom
hackers pose a very real threat to
industries who have become more reliant
on technology new software is now in
beta to let you turn your computer into
a pogoplug burb free and microsoft is
putting it and to the zune a new Android
looks so real you'd be hard-pressed to
tell he's not human so stick around for
the latest news from the category 5 TV
news room Thanks so so join us in the
chat room category five dot TV we'd love
to have you there and certainly if
you've got an IRC client you can join
irc.freenode.net and join the chat room
for category 5 would be a good idea
how's your week on busy it's been a
really busy week yeah like busy in a
good way or just oh yeah you know when
I'm not bored it's good so good busy
yeah okay yeah and yourself how was your
week I have not been bored Oh dealing
with DDoS attacks dealing with Miss and
that distributed denial-of-service I'm
on the other side i've been on the side
where you know our web host has gone
down and you know the site goes down and
so then it's like you know you're you're
at that end where you're you know
contacting tech support and wondering
hey what's going on what's going on and
you see you know all the posts of people
saying what's going on why aren't we get
an update that I've been on that side
I've never been on the side where I'm
the guy who's you know responsible for
getting things back up and running and
really giving me a new perspective on
what it is as a web host to I gotta
protect your users from things like a
denial of service attack wild stuff I
yeah a lot of angry customer normal
people don't generally get angry with me
cuz I'm just you're just a nice happy go
like I explained it in such ways yeah
you know it's just hackers that are just
attacking your servers okay that's all
good I'm working on it and this at least
with with me it's like they can get
ahold of me and that's and it's all good
but one of the things that I learned and
thinking about security people don't
realize like you've got I've got my ipod
touch right and when when I've set it up
with my email what he laughed match huh
it's like I have no idea what's talking
about when I set it up with email it
wouldn't connect with secure certificate
so okay well my mail server doesn't
support secure certificate so just turn
it off and it works now I'm realize
that's a really bad idea i mean i know
that in theory right but in practice
what happened what i saw happen this
week is that that a friend actually had
a device like this was the iphone same
situation they said it so that it wasn't
connecting through a secure connection
to their server somebody was packet
sniffing on a public Wi-Fi network which
means they're basically listening for
open Wi-Fi traffic and they
authenticated their email to get their
email on their iphone so then this
person our hacker picked up their
username and password and now they've
got access to their email account very
cell escape it's a big eye-opener when
it comes to that because you don't
realize it's like well i can change my
password or whatever but damage is done
right and somebody could go in and if
you use hotmail they could login then
they could change your hotmail password
and then you're stuck yeah that's so
scary I've seen that kind of thing
happens so use a secure certificate
don't connect to Wi-Fi if it doesn't
have encryption okay seriously well cuz
here your connection to the router if
it's unencrypted than anyone can pick up
that data such as the google street view
car for example but also some more more
malicious users than google
they could also pick up that data and
you don't want that to happen I'm gonna
head over to the chat room you got the
chat room oh I do hey everybody yeah
everybody say oh they talk about that on
hak5 look at that talking like hacker
lingo didn't even mean to but it's
natural for you that's what it is not
really hey Greg and Texas good guy
joining us in the chat room you croak
gab will Cal hydro hagga moto 8s 759 and
jaunt hey there we see a job yeah join
us in the chat room really encourage you
to do so I'm hinting because later on in
the show there might be a little bought
that might go into the chat room and if
you're not there then that bot might not
know that you're there not there or
something some people know what I'm
saying smile or not dad well okay email
you've been getting your emails into us
live at category five dot TV d man 810
loves drill wat alright let's see live
at category 5 TV of your question here
from James Alexander says good evening
all just bought a netgear wndr3700
dual-band router and i was wondering is
there any 5 gigahertz network equipment
out there like Wi-Fi or pci cards or is
this technology just for the future when
the equipment becomes available love the
show and PS eric is very useful so keep
him thanks for the comment james erik
just so you know he's um he's a musician
as you know it's a hockey playing
musician but this week and I'm very
sorely disappointed that Eric's not here
for the st. Patrick's
um sure mm-hmm because this is this is
his thing he'd be in his element but
everybody knows that so he is when he
calls digging like crazy this week so
he's playing at all different places
doing his music thing so learning all
the ER freshening up all the Irish
Latinos and you know you know the type
so is that he's doing that this week I
hope that he has a good time I'm gonna
try to get out and see him I'm gonna get
the itinerary and find out where he's
playing this this week so he couldn't be
here with us tonight we do miss him I
say that because I know that this is as
far in this he's gonna watch so now it's
now the cousin he's gone nobody's gone
Eric no I'm just totally playing so yeah
we'll keep him around wndr3700 with the
five gigahertz five gigahertz is 802 11
a so its fifth up to 54 megabits per
second just like 80 to 11g but the
difference is it runs in the 5 gigahertz
versus the 2.4 so the time that you want
to use it 2.4 gigahertz as you know is
very crowded as far as a frequency goes
so there's not a lot of room on there
and you tend to get a lot of
interference and sometimes you run into
trouble with other devices conflicting
with your wireless connection so then
you have trouble and what do you do
while you switch to 802 11 a and you're
suddenly at dual the wavelength so the
disadvantage to that speaking of
wavelength is that the wave like there's
a lot smaller so it's not going to go
through walls as well as G it's not
going to get around walls and it's more
of a line of sight kind of thing you
want to be fairly close to the router
you may have a whole different problem
with with 802 11 a but that said if
you're you know in a reasonably small
place and got a good signal then you
would actually pick it up better in a
scenario where 2.4 is crowded where you
are downtown Metro you know too many
Wi-Fi signals switch it to 5 gigahertz
and you'll be good to go as far as what
devices are so
ported there we go started it started
the cop from talk and talk and talk and
for 11 minutes straight the device
support you're going to find that a lot
of network adapters including the ones
in your laptop and probably in your
desktop computer if you've not Wi-Fi
there you'll see what that device
supports and a lot of them are going to
say a / be / g / n which means it
supports those four different wireless
frequencies so if that's the case if you
support a on your laptop say then you'll
be good to connect and you can switch
back and forth as you like what one
second it's a break hmm thank you thanks
for the question hope that helps but the
answer is yeah it's further than now for
the now but only use it if you've got it
cuz it's not gonna get it the same
quality of signal through walls and
across different floors of your house
and things like that depending on your
scenario so cool let's see okay edge
adds Randall joins us and sends an email
here to live at category 5 TV says how
do you go live with people when you have
the girls on from Telestream how do you
a have them on the air for one thing and
be switch back and forth so
interestingly if you if you watch that
entire episode you'll learn quite a bit
about a piece of software from
telescreen called Wirecast you can find
out more about it at cat five TV /
Wirecast that software is what we use
here category 5 to change what camera
we're using change the the lower third
if I want to put my twitter address up
for example or change cameras so in a
case like when the ladies were on i
could go home and there we go different
camera so with that let's tell a stream
Wirecast it is commercial application
for Windows or Mac and I threw that info
Thanks like that appreciate cat5 TV /
Wirecast is that what you want to check
it as far as how we get the ladies on
and how we get Hillary on when she's
doing the news from school we have a
dedicated computer I don't know John if
you can just kind of point the camera
down just a little bit so that they can
see there's a computer right in front of
us where we actually see Hillary so here
it is here and this computer well you
don't need to show the mass all the
wires and the dusted the monitor above
that see this monitor that's just kind
of resting there we actually see Hillary
right here so and that was not meant to
be an advertisement for IBM however just
to be fair should we maybe do a shot of
the alkyl happy st. Patrick's Day
everyone so now that John's camera happy
he's like I think he told me to move he
told me to move the camera this is
awesome this this computer runs skype so
skype video allows us to bring in guests
through the internet so they install
skype on their system or they use it
from their device you can get skype
installed on your mobile and mobile
device for example with my ipod touch 4
i've got the forward-facing camera i can
just hold it and have carry a
conversation through skype videos so
that then goes into this computer this
computer using a product that comes with
telescreens Wirecast called desktop
presenter it then streams that video
over to our system as if it was a camera
very much the same way that I'm able to
switch over you know with Krista being
here I can switch over to her computer
with my computer over here I can switch
over to my computer and go back and
forth and then back to the camera
nothing to it so that's all a part of
telestream Wirecast with the addition of
an A for me another computer running
skype and that's how it's done cool
thanks for the question
is that sarcasm you make it sound so
complicated do I really oh that's the
opposite yeah trying to do I like
pictures and colors you want me to draw
you a picture of sheep I'm such a good
artist that okay that I get that sphere
is the computer this line here is a wire
and that square is the other computer
and that's how that's better very visual
and you got worse than yeah that worked
for me okay perfect always happy to help
skit and that was good because we answer
the question for two different types of
people those who really want to know
yeah those are just having one of my
people like me yeah cool well I think we
can hop right into our feature we've got
a game this is a pretty big feature that
we're doing with the web development
we're trying to squeeze in as much as we
can over the next several weeks and that
hope that you're enjoying it and we
welcome your questions in the chat room
category 5 TV the cat category 5 chat
room on freenode or drop us an email
live at category 5 don t need to get
those questions and for Krista cool
actually before we get into the feature
i'll just remind you that Wirecast just
because we're kind of on that topic
still we're giving away a free copy it's
worth four hundred and fifty dollars and
what I get you to do if you jump up to
to our website category 5 TV click on
interact on the menu and then go down to
Wirecast contest and from this button
there you're going to see all the
entries that that have been entered for
the Wirecast contests is the giveaway
and you're going to have your chance to
vote for your favorites read the
instructions up at the top here and find
out how you can vote and those votes are
going to be taken into account when we
decide who the winner is for that free
copy of Wirecast so please do go through
that process it's very very easy
category 5 TV click on
interact and Wirecast contest I'm good
luck to those who are eligible alright
so welcome to part 2 of the category 5
TV tutorials on how to design a website
crystal wells joins us tonight hello I'm
Robbie Ferguson nice to have you here so
last week we well you I was coming here
but super fine you created the yep the
design that you've got there yeah and
make great things happen look at that
very cool so that's you over on on your
Mac it is this is me over on Linux so
let's see what we can do here Christa
sent me the PSD file so here's comp dot
PSD this is the same file that you're
working with right exact same father
let's bring it up in gimp okay there we
go there's me in the gimp there's you in
photoshop now just just for the viewers
sake how much does photoshop cost you
roughly a thousand dollars ask right
it's somewhere in my range you can get a
student discount if you're going to
school yeah that helps you took
advantage of that ok so what with the
student discount how much did it cost uh
well the sweet the cs4 or cs5 is about
500 bucks i gets you image ready
photoshop illustrator dreamweaver flash
bridge I said image ready I'm an
illustrator Emiratis going in design
yeah we don't use that ok so that's as
so a can you buy just photoshop you can
yeah but a lot of times it's worth it
just to get the package yeah Cesar it is
especially if you a medic driver yeah
with the proper programs ok I'm gonna
bring up the web browser here we're just
gonna go somewhere where we can buy
photoshop i don't know why i'm curious i
just i just want to know
Photoshop oh here we go photoshop i know
it's cs5 but let's buy it
ok select country I'm in Canada select
which store should we go with the
educational pricing let's do that might
as well just because that's going to be
the best deal going right so this is for
students or faculty save up to eighty
percent well that sounds great eighty
percent of what shop the student store
okay let's see so we're looking at a
adobe photoshop cs5
super fast web there by the way and of
course they've got it's it's largely
because they're using flash why would
Adobe use flash all right okay pretty
sweet Creative Suite creative suite w
photoshop extended student and teacher
edition ok so the cheapest version i can
find here is this cs5 extended student
and teacher edition just photoshop says
from 199 okay so us one hundred and
ninety nine dollars so that's the
cheapest i can possibly get right oh
well that's very yeah that's what it is
so you're gonna show off now no i'm not
showing no that's not what this is no oh
that website loaded so fast hm you
invited me just to make fun of Christa
make fun of crustacea no it's not I'm
not when did I say oh look it didn't
look at Krista she's slow implication
their website okay here look let's just
say we're on Windows okay well okay I'm
in English
wait a minute but wait I didn't even
have to pay and it wants to give me the
full version of the software let's go
back and see what we have here okay go
back to GIMP o RG and let's say we want
to get it for mac OS oh and look it's
also available for unix photoshop
doesn't work on units how convenient Mac
os10 okay here we go the GIMP on Mac OS
10 let's see how much this one costs oh
I bet it's free you're catchin I jumped
the gun with a Texan on what's that yeah
I got it GIMP nishino stands for a GNU
image manipulation program compatible
with snow leopard leopard tiger going
way back let's say we got snow leopard
oh that looks strikingly similar a dmg
file okay you kind of know what I'm
sayin right okay I think I caught on
unless you want to draw out a picture
for me that much I don't want to say
that Photoshop I la dra fix it might
help fan
putting his skills to use here there
there's a picture for Krista she asked
for it okay I don't want to say the
photoshop and emperors are identical
they're not the same product at all
they're not there they're similar in
their design they're similar in what
they can do there's a program called
gimp shop which is another version of
the gimp that looks a lot like photoshop
and uses a lot of the same hotkeys so
it's easier for someone such as krista
to migrate over to the free product not
that i would but the GIMP is absolutely
free so if you want to get into photo
manipulation if you want to be doing
things like we're doing tonight when we
do graphic manipulation on the show why
not use a free piece of software that's
available for download at gimp.org and
this is going to allow me Here I am on
linux right looks kind of like mac OS
this is linux it's also free hulu com
ubuntu linux is a free distribution or a
free operating system for your computer
that works on pc so it's cheaper
hardware free operating system versus
the mac here's photoshop fair enough all
right so not the same product but we
want to just kind of emphasize that
there's a big difference because we're
saving two hundred bucks bare minimum if
we were a student ok how's okay yeah
that's really great deal but as a
professional I really like the you know
the photoshop programming in it sure
yeah absolutely and it does have its
advantages and I I do tend to use both
professionally because there are times
when I absolutely need photoshop I
totally can admit that
it's trying to make me feel better now
that bomb I am I don't ever use
Photoshop only time I use photoshop is
when you send here yeah cuz all your
crazy Photoshop layer mask yeah it's me
no I'm just kidding gonna add more next
time okay so here we are in the GIMP and
what we're going to do is kind of assess
how we want to work with this file
basically as last week Christa went
through and and creatively came up with
the design and decided for me and
explained how she decides how to build
the website as the person who's going to
be slicing it which may be the same
person if you ever do the slicing
yourself the person who's slicing needs
to have a bit of an idea as to how they
want to to do this oh look at that
that's the mac that's thanks okay so
what I mean by that is we've got this
gradient background so this is a red
that changes shades of red if you're not
too sure what you can do is you can grab
your and you can follow along with this
krista if you like okay Photoshop just
following yeah absolutely we should do a
split screen it's embarrassing maybe so
what I've done is I've grabbed the
little Doppler here its color picker
tool in GIMP and if i click on my
foreground color actually click on the
doppler there and watch this HTML
notation there as i click on this red is
b4c be5
what I want to do here I'm going to
change layers to be background there and
now do that again there we go so a 9000
okay if I click somewhere else see the
numbers that's a 9000 Oh what's so funny
I'm laughing just thought of a funny
joke from earlier ok so now click down
here it changes to 81 810,000 that's an
HTML reference for the color so you see
that it's actually a gradient there's
different colors here a 0000 down here
is eight thousand eight hundred thousand
so what that tells us is that the
gradient is not all one color of red so
what we need to first decide is how
we're going to work with our background
when we're doing this so what we want to
do in Photoshop is maybe zoom in to
about 2,000 percent yeah so
and then go down to the very very bottom
one of the things that we need to do
when we're slicing a website is we need
to make sure that things are fluid if
the site becomes taller we need the
gradient not to have a cut-off point at
the bottom of the gradient you don't
want this thing to look like a square on
a white page you want that gradient seem
to flow so what you'll do at that zoom
level is use your Doppler and get that
HTML character code the color code of
the very very bottom so as close to the
lower edge as you can possibly get
because that's going to map this zoom
level it's gonna be like a very very big
pixel so that I ready 840,000 right yep
so if I bring it up in the GIMP let's
see if i get the same thing so I've got
my Doppler tool color picker maybe zoom
in down to the very bottom and grab that
bottom color because that's where our
gradient basically ends I think I
actually got a little closer to the edge
because i'm getting 82,000 if you might
have been up just a little bit but
regardless that's that's going to be
pretty close so write down at the very
very bottom here I've selected the color
and it's 8000 that's this really deep
red so the reason we want to do that is
now we've got that color in our
clipboard and now if you watch if I were
to zoom out of this now okay and if i
were to resize this image the canvas
size which is exactly what's going to
happen on the web if you get a page
that's super long okay now what's going
to happen in the background there once i
fill that with this particular color
just to kind of give you an idea
is that the gradient is not going to
look like it breaks off you can't see a
line there where the gradient stopped if
I didn't do it that way if I didn't pick
that proper color and there was white
behind it you'd have the bottom of the
website would basically look like that
so I've got my color it's eight thousand
or eight hundred thousand and that's
what we're going to use as our
background color when we get into CSS so
the actual coding of the site but we
need to know that off the get-go because
we need to actually create the
background gradient file so we're going
to come back to that in just a couple of
moments Hillary is I got the news for us
and we will be back right after after we
hear from her stick around from the
category five
while we continue to come or you're the
line on technology the threat of hackers
person serious damage increase security
experts who
bhushan system say systems have been
infiltrated and Canada's smart grid is
vulnerable Doug Westland president of
cyber security company and dimension
solutions says we certainly know from
our customers that their systems have
been infiltrated it's been going on for
quite some time mr. Westland expressed
that he is unable to reveal who these
customers are no doubt for security
reasons however we do know that
westlands company is a part of the
research projects sponsored by the
united states department of energy to
protect the emerging digital smart grid
against cyberattacks the most worrisome
change as of late involves millions of
wireless smart meters being installed in
homes and businesses these meters
provide wireless two-way communications
with local utilities which link to
transmission operators and power
generators and are very rehnda are a
very real potential target for hackers
governments are starting to step up to
the plate and increase their awareness
and action surrounding cybersecurity
cloud engines Inc the makers of Pogoplug
have announced a new Pogoplug software
which will allow users to essentially
turn their own computer into a pogoplug
connected device with no need for
additional hardware and this software is
now available to a limited group of
interested beta testers with this new
software users can access their files
securely from anywhere in the world
through an internet connection from
virtually any device if you want to have
access to your desktop computers
documents from your iPad or other device
for example no problem if you want to
share your family photos with extended
family no problem the new software will
essentially work just as if you had a
pogoplug device giving you the ability
to access or share your files through a
web-based interface mobile app or even a
mounted hard drive from anywhere in the
world the new pogoplug software is
available for mac and windows with a
linux version in development whoo boy
users who would like to take advantage
and for a test run can participate in
the free open beta by visiting cat5 dot
TV / pogo beta bloomberg is reporting
that microsoft has
finally decided to put an official end
to it zoom media player line a person
familiar with the decision has informed
them that Microsoft will not be putting
out any new hardware in the line and
will henceforward focusing on
integrating zoom functionality with the
windows phone 7 platform from the
intelligent robotics lab at Oscar osaka
university and the imagination of every
Star Trek fan in the universe an
amazingly realistic looking Android is
getting a lot of people excited some say
the Geminoid DK designed by Professor
Hiroshi Ishiguro and fashioned it to
look like Professor Henry scarf oh dear
all you guys are gonna kill me Henrique
scarf of albergue University in Denmark
is even more lifelike than Brett
spinners data character which may
actually be true if Geminoid EK were
sitting at a coffee shop reading a
newspaper i think you'd be hard-pressed
to tell it's not a real person until
that is he smiles or moves his head in a
quirky robotic woo the Geminoid DK is
going to be used for researching
emotional affordances in human-robot
interaction the novel notion of blending
presents as well as cultural differences
from different continents in the
perception of robots you can get these
full stories online at category 5 TV /
newsroom the category five BB newsroom
is researched by roy w Nash with
contributions from gadget wisdom guru
and our wonderful community of viewers
if you've induced story things for the
honor mention send us Anina a newsroom
at category 5 TV for the category 5
tartini newsroom I'm Hillary rumble
thanks oh that's crazy I wouldn't
believe it crazy I don't believe it she
said spinner brent Spiner
nobody else in this room people
understand what I'm what I'm talking
about you don't even know what I know it
could I spoil it she's not one of us
Prince minor I brent Spiner the the
gentleman who played data who also
incidentally watches the show at brent
Spiner on twitter nice to have you here
okay so moving along this is category 5
technology TV and you'll find us online
at category five dot TV I truly do think
that's pretty awesome and Android wicked
it is it is okay so we are looking at
part two of developing a website and
Krista and I are actually slicing up the
design she did last week and basically
getting it set up so that we can turn
that into an actual functional real
website at this point it's really just a
month it's just a pretty picture yes
it's something that we would send to a
customer and say here's the look of the
website what do you think that gives us
a chance with in Photoshop or the GIMP
to make changes to the design change the
where the items are positioned or what
menu items there are it's it's really
it's just a graphic representation of
what the websites going to look like at
this point we're assuming that the
client or or asif it's our own website
we've set in yeah this looks great this
is exactly what we want so we're gonna
actually work with that so looking at my
computer here and Krista's got this up
in Photoshop as well so I'm working in
the GIMP Krista's working in photoshop
I'm working for free she's working for
thousands okay so let slip that in just
throw that in there yeah have you seen
patrick's day by the way two days off
I'm Robbie Ferguson okay
so with this we've got the background
color i'm going to i'm just going to jot
this down because we are going to need
this next week when we get into actually
coding this website my color is 88
hundred thousand that's a hexadecimal
number that corresponds with the RGB red
green blue color that we've chosen there
that's the red and hexadecimal means
it's ready for HTML for coding for the
web for CSS so we can set that as our
background color and it's going to match
exactly to that photoshop tells you if
it's a web safe color which is kind of a
cool feature of photoshop you want to
bring up the color doppler there and
just tell me if if it shows 18,000 and
i'll show you what what it does there so
800,000 if you look right here at the
top there's a little explanation point
and it shows us that that is not
actually a website color if you click on
it it's going to change to a similar
color which is web safe and that is 17
I'm an f-14 28 okay so let's see in the
gimp how different that is web safe
colors are not as big of a problem as it
used to be see that's not that's nowhere
close I guess on the stream you can't
really tell that i can tell that
visually yeah more of a pink than I read
it really is so I'm going to stick with
a thousand typically when we're creating
the mock-up we might try sticking with
ending the gradient on a web safe color
so when we're selecting the colors we
could if we want to make it easier for
the guy who's slicing at it why you
might do that in a case like this where
it's not web safe what I might do is I
might actually choose a color that is
web safe
okay and colorize that that's my
background color now use a square
marquee / me and feather that let's
start with 10 pixels go like that create
a new layer transparent remember this is
a feathered marquee right so now if i
fill that what a feather means is that
the was my background color the edge of
that marquee is not a perfect square
it's actually got a little bit of a
feathering to it kind of like a blur on
the edges without without actually
having to blur it sorry I'm talking and
trying to find Phil there we go so now
if I put that above and I can I can set
that up in such a way that the I might
want more than a 10 feather I want let's
say 35 this is just one option I'm not
going to do this in this case because
it's such a the color is is so far off
that we're just going to stick with it
but I want to show you what you can do
to fix that edge
Oh zoom sometimes does that take so I
can move that see what I've done is I've
created another gradient at the bottom
which merges the non web-safe color into
a web safe color nice and clean so
that's a possibility in this case we're
not actually going to do that we'll
pretend that we've got a web safe color
and that we or that we don't care or
something that it's all good the other
option in a case like this we've got a
non web-safe color at the base here's a
really quick option and this one's going
to surprise you eight hundred thousand
there's no right or wrong way to to do
this it's really your going to choose
every time you do it but what we need to
do is we need to have this clean we need
to have a web safe easiest way to do
that create a new layer first of all
let's let's canvas size this we're going
to go canvas size we're going to set it
to something absurd that nobody's going
to ever have we're going to set up to
15,000 pixels high so now our image
actually looks like that with the
website way at the top if I create a new
layer and I fill that layer with my
background color which is the non
web-safe color okay
now what happens is we've got something
where it's going to be the perfect color
it's not web safe but it's okay because
it's going to be an image on the
background so now you say okay well
that's 50 what did I say fifteen
thousand pixels high it's going to be
huge but what we do now as part of our
slicing and always keep your PDF file
don't overwrite it is take that we're
going to go image canvas size because
this is a vertical only gradient there's
nothing horizontal that changes so I'm
going to set this to a pixel width of
five pixels which is going to actually
crop that and it looks like it
disappeared if i zoom way in or push one
to see it there's my actual gradient
okay so it's like that starts up there
goes all the way down for fifteen
thousand pixels it's never going to
actually run into anything so let's save
that let's throw it on my desktop i'm
going to call this a jpeg reason for it
is because it doesn't need a
transparency it's just a flat flat file
we want it to be as small as possible so
we're going to go with a jpeg so let's
go and i give it a logical name i've
called it body underscore BG jpg save
that in the gimp choose your quality 85
is the default it's fine and now we've
got this file which is that background
color that background gradient ok it's
huge but if we look at the file size
because it's only 5 pixels wide you'll
notice it's 7.3 k it's actually very
very sit down yeah anything basically
images for web you want them to be in
the sub you know if it's a big image you
want to try to keep it down around 50 to
80 k the very very high end depending on
but we have you basically use common
sense and realize that the bigger the
site is the longer it's going to take
the load and so you don't want it to be
over the top huge so
okay so you you can easily do that on
the Mac I could hear you could and and
that and that makes sense because now
when our website is there it's not going
to it's not going to over like it so
it's not going to be a cut off on that
gradient okay so that's our first slice
I'm going to reopen that PSD because
remember we never overwrite that file so
I've got my first slice I'm going to
create a folder on my desktop here where
I'm going to put it it's going to be my
website I'm going to cut that image the
first slice that we made and create a
folder all lower case called images so
on my desktop I've created this folder
called website and if it a folder in
that called images and I've cut that to
my clipboard that image there's my first
image ok so now looking at the rest of
the site Krista we've got the logo ok
which what we'll want to do is we want
to actually have that as a transparent
item because we don't want to have to
worry about aligning it perfectly with
the gradient we don't want to have a
JPEG because then we've got a flat image
with the background color like we
wouldn't want that right so what I'm
going to do is I'm going to select the
layer that has my logo just right there
if I turn it off and on I can see that
the logo disappears hit ctrl a i'm not
sure what your select all is on the mac
oh it's just a command a commanding yeah
so if you happen if you select your logo
layer and obviously you have the master
files for the logo and that's fine too
but from this we're working in high
enough resolution this is why we want to
build our mock-ups and high res so we
don't have to go back and redo the
entire mock up again with high-res
images always do it in high res so with
a control a it's selected that logo and
I can go control C or command C probably
to copy it to my clipboard and in the
GIMP i'm going to go edit paste as new
image and i've got a perfect transparent
version of the logo ok so because it's
transparent I want to save that as a
pain which is going to maintain that
transparency I'm going to again put that
in web site images i'm going to call
this
we want to be search engine friendly so
was it aspire aspire logo it was a spire
place wasn't ah yes this fireplace okay
logo dot ping we're giving it a logical
name because one it's easier for us to
find when we need to actually add it to
our site but also it allows the search
engines to index that as the aspire
place logo so once we get submitted the
search engines which is going to happen
further on in the series but we need to
plan for that we need to make sure that
our site is search engine optimized and
ready to be indexed by this by the
search engines okay so you've got have
you got that file i'll set up as well on
your Mac you've got a logo I have a logo
okay so you follow along and I'm trying
oh good with winner I you have the logo
saved and I have the logo saver okay
perfect and remember that because it's
copied from our mock-up the dimensions
of this logo are exactly as they would
be on our mock-up 162 by 58 perfect so
now you see these menu items these are
all fake don't get deceived by these
these are not the set menu items I get
this all the time you get this where
clients as well I think we need to
change about us to about oh all the time
and you're saying no this is just the
mock-up that's not a real menu that's
just we put that there so that you can
see what it's going to look like when we
put a real menu there we put this lorem
ipsum text on the page so that you can
see what the text is going to look like
but it's not the real text you don't
need to tell us you know I'm gonna said
it best business doesn't know which I
read that that's all part of the markup
so one of the things we need to do is
just get rid of it all so that's text
that we're gonna get rid of that's text
so we're gonna get rid of okay so we can
get rid of all the mock-up stuff that we
simply don't need by turning off the
layers ok so now and I've already got my
logo so now I end up with something like
that I've got my background
so I'm done with that okay so really the
only elements that we still have laughed
Here I am on the GIMP and krista's
following along in Photoshop doing the
exact same thing so now we need to have
our different layers here so this here
is predominantly a color so we'll get to
that but it's going to be a color
essentially with a little arrow pointing
down at the bottom so I'm going to turn
off my feather because I have that
turned on on my select tool from earlier
and I'm going to grab the guide that
Krista has set up here with my marquee
it's you see that the GIMP snaps to
those guides and I'm actually going to
the mock-up doesn't have things don't
have to be exact to the mock-up because
I noticed that the guide is just a
little bit off from like maybe a 1 pixel
so that's that's fine so now i'm going
to select the wood grain layer and I'm
going to copy that and then edit paste
as new image or in Photoshop file new
image and it's going to automatically
set your proportions so now I've got
this wood grain which is exactly
proportionate to what it is that is
going to go at the top of the website
and krista's following along on
Photoshop as well so she's actually had
to paste that into a new image in
Photoshop whereas i could just edit
paste his name so I'm gonna save that
that's my wood grain for the top one of
the things about wood grain you should
know is that it's got a lot of intricacy
to it so it can end up being a pretty
large file again there's no transparency
necessary here so we are going to work
with a JPEG so we're going to try with
this I want to see how large the file is
going to be if i set it where i would
like it to be which is about eighty-five
percent quality so i'm going to call
woodgrain VG jpg again I'm saving it in
my web design their website / images
flatten the image save it as 85 and
let's go for me see how that is how
BIG's the file on your system at
eighty-five percent oh you're going wait
a half day she's taking it down to
quality three ah that's been near 78 k
only six is to sixty percent mine turned
out at eighty-five percent to be only 60
4.5 k so what you want to try crist is
instead of save as on photoshop go file
save for web save for web and advices
just an out of it right there yeah and
now it's automatically selecting jeff so
change that to jpg and now you'll see
that the file size down at the lower
left 76.1 so now grab the quality slider
and you can slide that down right here
top right and you can actually see how
that's going to impact your file size as
well as the quality the output so that's
pretty good essentially what you'd want
to do is go down as far as you can
without completely losing the quality of
the file without losing the detail
because you don't want it to look bad
but at the same time this is a
background image and there's going to be
stuff on top of it that is going to be
really what you're looking at so for me
64k is too big so i'm going to save a
game i'm going to overwrite and bring my
quality down to 70
double-click on it see how I like the
quality it's fantastic and at this point
it's only 40k that's a that's a bit more
reasonable especially considering us a
wood grain how are you doing over there
and forth with Photoshop don't we're
good 41 k for me and the quality is
seventy percent quality the wood grain
is pretty crystal clear and how large is
the file size uh i believe it was 3333 I
could keep going I'm at seventy percent
Oh 3737 okay so we're pretty close I'm
41 but I've got seventy percent quality
how long do you have to go I think my
was like forty percent I was pretty low
right alright so now we've got that file
ready to go and that's going to be our
background for the top area so we can
close that out go back to our mock-up
and I don't need that wood grain anymore
one of the things I got to do is I got
to get these cool Polaroid's that
Krista's created so we're going to get
rid of all this stuff because that's all
just in colors these are just colors the
white stuff we're going to use a div
we're not going to use an image and I'm
going to go control a and this time it's
a little bit different I've got the
crystal just get rid of that blue area
as well because that we're going to use
a divot as well as that so here I am in
the GIMP there's Krista in Photoshop
control a or command a to copy all
select all and this time I'm not going
to go coffee because that's only going
to copy the selected layer which is only
the picture when i get everything it's
going to copy visible or copy merged in
Photoshop I suppose so now that I've got
that in my clipboard Krista's got that
in her clipboard let's paste it as a new
image again I'm going to go edit paste
as new Krista's going to create a new
image and then paste it onto that canvas
well and we didn't get a merged
clipboard so go back to your your master
file there and make sure when you copy
go edit copy merged
there you go so now create a new file
again it won't be that one because that
one's got the wrong dimensions
is it still just getting into it yeah
that's how its jack okay go back to your
so now I think what's happening okay
because you're you've got a marquee
around just that image if you do a
control a know you probably just want
the whole board yes she just had the
wrong mark either so it was copying
emerged but ok so now paste that into
anime new image there we go okay so now
again this has got to be a pain right
yours is coming up as it's got a white
background so you need to get rid of
that white background there you go and
then export that as a pin which is going
to be a larger file because it's got
that transparency Here I am the GIMP and
you'll notice that I also got a bunch of
space over here so in the GIMP I can
just go right click image auto crop
image and it automatically sucks in the
sides that's one thing that Photoshop is
lacking that the GIMP is totally awesome
at gonna save that image i'm going to
call this the Polaroids pool airways no
breaching of copyrights intended or
registered trademarks okay Polaroid's
dot pain reasonably go with paying a
gain is because this has got a
transparency so we need to be able to
put this on top of the rest of our
website so that what's behind it can
actually shine through okay so you're at
that point in Photoshop as well I'm
going to save it with a compression
level of nine in the GIMP ping being a
lossless format it's going to be very
high quality even at high compression
there's my ping and it's it's quite
large that's showing me as 160 7.7 k how
are you looking
we are 299 299 so mine's about half the
size of yours but they're both too big
for internet so next week we're going to
come back to that we're going to
compress down that that Polaroids dot
ping file on both well if you're if
you're here we can look at it on the mac
if you're not then we'll definitely look
at it on linux as well you can kind of
get an impression for how we're able to
do a lot of the same things between
photoshop the commercial software and
the gimp on that which is free on a free
operating system which is a boom to dude
that I'm plugging the fact that free is
actually a really good these days it's
not like 10 years ago we're free men
you're sacrificing quality and and
getting you know a knockoff product and
now these days got it thanks to
community on it it's a fantastic thing
so we're going to be looking at actually
taking those slices because we've
actually sliced up that whole website
now there's arm there's our actual mock
up as a sliced website that's it we've
got our logo right which is a
transparent ping on a white background
it's being displayed so we can't really
see it because it's white text we've got
our background image which is that thing
there that's going to be the gradient
we've got the Polaroids which we're
going to shrink down next week and we've
got that guy right there our wood grain
so those are really the only images that
we need to get started with the website
to make it look like you're maka and
then we're going to be using CSS as well
as HTML and PHP in order to actually
turn that into a real functional working
website along with some cool little Java
scripts and anything else we need to do
to make that work so this is category 5
triple w category 5 TV and you know
it's-- the viewers to get into the chat
room and you definitely want to do that
polka plugs brought up some really cool
software but I'll tell you the truth the
hardware still has some features that
are not going to be available in the
software and and you know I can't go
into too many details because it is
still in beta but the hardware is still
like that's the highest end that you can
get with pogoplug so you want to check
this out the pogoplug pro is available
we're giving away two of them tonight I
think we've got time to you know why not
just give away polka plugs at the end of
the night very cool hope you've had fun
tonight it's been just a blast yeah fun
i had a way i had lots of you were gonna
say it last i was annihilated took the
words right out of my mouth I'll make a
list of me but I still said them first
right on the moment they weren't Eric's
here we'll ask him to write a song about
it basically it's probably country song
already John probably is get in the chat
room category 5 TV drama bot is there
for you typos are so much fun so much
fun here we go good luck everybody
these are the members who are joining us
in the chat room we're going through
your names drobot is picking out two of
you see who would like to win a pogoplug
secret number tonight pick four numbers
from Universal between I just pick just
pick a number that this forest
or a caregiver
and 286 7286 that's your secret code
already Blair and poopy congratulations
on winning a pogoplug bro
to do is send a snack
Kristen just pulled out
and you'll have a pogoplug on its way
send us your name real name your mailing
address your phone number for the
shipping company as well as that code
and it will be on its way have a
fantastic week everybody has been so
great having you here great having you
here again oh it's good to be here yes
lots of ya see a category-five TV and
follow us on twitter twitter.com /
category-five TV
