some of you on discord may already know
this but okay if you watch the last
week's show you'll know that we did the
duty what's o'clock cloud ready yeah
ready mm-hmm never wear cloud ready yes
we converted a notebook computer
standard PC notebook computer into a
Chromebook made it look so so easy that
I was just I'll just do that
so on Friday yeah I I just decided okay
fine I'll see what I remember from the
show didn't watch it again yet at this
point yeah so I get home and I turned on
my laptop and I like this has got to be
easy and I started and I I could it's at
first I get on the discord and Garvey
was there thank you between the two of
us I was really just like it was it was
Garvey's mind really and then just
channeled through discord exhaust ashes
fingers exactly it was like a
collaborative effort and we did it so we
I had a boon to emit a and like an
age-old boon to Matteo install installed
like three or four years away back now I
have a brand spankin new computer it
looks great so you actually did this
yeah I mean you had the assistance of
our discord community which is wonderful
is it you can get live chat live
feedback from tech geeks and folks that
yeah genuinely I wanna help
and I felt smart like okay so the very
first thing that Garbi said is go into
the terminal and type this in yeah and I
thought to myself yeah because I see it
like you just pop into it all the time I
didn't know where to find it at first
and I and I did and then I just I was
like okay how am I gonna type all of
this none I remembered you can copy and
paste with keyboard shortcuts so
literally my entire time I would just
copy the line of script and then paste
it and then just try and analyze what it
said myself and then in my words tell
Garvey whether or not it worked so I had
to
install curl is it called curl yeah I
had to do that which by I I mean copy
and pasted it in together we're her
machine
together we're fight together I mean
it's like a 90/10 Garvey for the win no
you got to give yourself more credit
because you stepped way outside of your
comfort zone totally you took an Ubuntu
mat a laptop that I set up yeah okay and
you converted it to a Chromebook with
cloud ready and you did that it was it
felt so good it felt like happy dance
good did you ever see that commercial
where is it it's the little girl and
she's standing on the bathroom like
talking to herself in the mirror and she
was the curly blonde hair and she's like
you are awesome and she was like pumping
herself up i watch that if you haven't
seen it that's how I felt in that moment
I can understand how how come you all do
this I'm sure you all have the best days
always but you know and you you you did
it yeah you've achieved that you have
customized your own laptop so now you've
got this and I can sense it you've got
this like sense like I did that the
freedom of saying okay when you bought
this laptop
what's that sticker say Windows 7 mm-hmm
that's right
are you stuck having to do Windows
updates and having to deal with one of
the things that I love about cloud ready
and Chromebooks the whole concept behind
it one thing first of all how's the
performance it's awesome it is is it
better than it was with Ubuntu matei
which we know as a lightweight linux
that is meant for ageing hardware it
should work really well on that right
comparatively how is this it is a much
battery doesn't die quickly oh yeah
right like so it's it's saving my
battery Wow Tony I got impressed yeah
well yeah well if it's a lightweight
thing then your computer is a nice chap
man it's using the cloud yeah for CPU it
sounds like a really efficient platform
mm-hmm so we know that it is now
performing better but if you wanted to
you could now login
- any other Chromebook or or cloud-ready
system you could log into my laptop that
now has cloud ready on it great as
yourself and all of the settings that
you have on there are gonna be
transferred over not only the settings
but all your documents your spreadsheets
everything is there because it's part of
the cloud now right so this is what
spoke to me insanely last week because
my school we all we were all given just
like little laptops that you sign in and
out at the beginning and end of every
class we're not allowed to bring our own
computers in we have to use theirs and
it's Google like it's all the Google
Docs all of my books that you're using
at school I guess they must be
Chromebooks a yes probably so you log in
and you have I have this yeah I have
exactly
ah so how cool is that yeah I'm gonna be
a Google Doc official like I think about
my kids and the fact that the school
Geoff hit on it last week saying like
the schools have transitioned to
Chromebooks right yeah they're there so
instead of having 30 laptops they'll
have 90 Chromebooks and every student
has a Chromebook that's the best you
know you go into class and here's your
Chromebook here's your Chromebook and so
it doesn't matter which one you get as
soon as you log in as yourself you've
got all your stuff
exactly but then my kids come home they
log into the Chromebook at home and
they've got all their stuff
Zach that's amazing it's wonderful man I
wish we had that in the high school cuz
we always had the old Dell laptops right
so they would work but they would take
forever to start up but now if you're
talking like I know I got the Dell
laptops I had an icon with a giant
trackball and a big CRT screen built
into it and I have to roll around the
trackball in order to get around
[Music]
[Applause]
you
