we have covered the GNU image
manipulation program several times on
the show it's a great application it's a
great alternative to commercial software
being Adobe Photoshop mm-hmm so the GNU
image manipulation program is a free
image editor and you get it at gimp.org
it's compatible with Windows Linux Mac
so no matter what system you have you
can use it so what I am going to be
showing you tonight now we've shown how
to crop and how to resize images and
things like that but never not none
maybe sometime in the past 451 episodes
or whatever it's been our 541 episode
that's right to show you how to actually
create an avatar and what that is now
when you create a Twitter account or
Facebook or something like that you need
that perfectly square picture and it
also needs to be the right size you
asked about size of images like how big
should the image be right well if you
upload an image that's too big to social
media it might get rejected because it
might be too large for the
specifications that they have for an
avatar so my daughter has been good
enough to provide for us tonight one of
her drawings to use for the example and
so what I'm gonna show you how to do is
first of all we're gonna get into
cropping so this is the GNU image
manipulation program running in single
window mode which makes it feel a little
more like Photoshop for those of you who
are used to it I'm going to grab the
rectangle select tool here and you'll
notice as I drag the rectangle select
tool I've got this chance to make it all
kinds of proportions see that now as
soon as I'm dragging that and at the
same time click the left shift key on my
keyboard watch what happens
click now it is a exact proportional
square so we're no longer working with a
dynamic rectangle we're working with a
square so I can take that and I can put
that around the face which is going to
be probably what I want for the avatar
and I'm going to zoom in just a little
bit
so that you can see that a little bit
better and now if I'm not too happy with
the crop I can actually drag that and
again hold in the shift key and it gives
me that proportional exact square once
again and then I can drag in the center
to move that around
I like the GIMP for that it's better
than the Photoshop way of doing things
so there we go so now that I've got that
crop I'm gonna bring that down crop off
a little bit of the hair at the top I'm
gonna right click and go image crop to
selection so now I've got that if I want
to bring it in a little bit tighter
I can go control a4 select all and then
click and then drag in the game holding
my shift key to make it a little tighter
but also proportional see how the GIMP
allows you to rescale the scaling tool
mm-hmm even though you've already
selected the marquee I do love that I
don't want to lose the her her 2018
tally there so there we go so now crop
that in boom so I would say that's
pretty perfect so now the next thing I'm
gonna do is let's touch this up just a
little bit I'm gonna go colors levels
and with levels I can do some pretty
cool stuff this is the the highlight see
that that kind of curve there yeah those
are the highlights so if I move toward
that no those are the shadows
well I'm backwards pardon me if I move
toward that I'm gonna get no those
aren't highlights my mistake I'm right
so yeah kind of lighting and things like
that those are highlights I'm just
getting confused cuz it's backwards and
normally we don't have so much white if
I bring in the shadows which is the left
see how it gets darker and darker and
darker and darker it's also much crisper
those blacks you guessed yes exactly you
get much more of a digital look to it
versus a scan so you can do all kinds of
things like that just to touch it up and
I would just do that too just to kind of
clean it up and make it look a little
more vibrant see how you can drag those
little triangles around play around with
that get used to it
there's no science to it beyond just
kind of feeling where
the the colors work but when you look at
the graph or the the curve here you can
kind of see that that's the direction I
want to move toward because I have very
little shadows in this image so by
moving it toward here I'm gonna get more
shadows so okay now here's the thing
that you may not realize with this image
folks is that it is huge if I look up
here 13:22 by 1322 so if I view that in
full size it's quite massive so if I
save that as just a JPEG image let's try
it and I'm gonna turn on and notice I'm
over writing you probably want to I
should just for best practice let's call
it something else because I don't want
to overwrite my master image so if I
show preview it's gonna tell me that
that is a 2.4 megabyte file well I know
that YouTube for example only allows 2
Meg's so I need to make it smaller I can
either scale it down or I can bring down
the compression so that the quality is a
little less and with 90% complete
quality which is 10% compression it goes
down to 750 1.6 kilobytes which is much
much smaller so that's good so if the
problem is size that's gonna solve it
for us as far as file size if however
the website has proportional issues that
they say look it can only be 500 by 500
then we need to go image scale image and
we're gonna go 500 by 500 and make sure
that that is proportional and if you
have it see if you can go with like with
some better interpolation will go with
sinc here for today this is an older
version of GIMP it's not the the better
but now if I hit scale now that is my
full sized image so it's 500 by 500
perfect crop and the colors have been
enhanced I'm gonna export we're gonna
call that thumbnail dot jpg and I'm
gonna set again show my preview so that
I can see what the quality is going to
be and I'm always gonna go with I'm not
gonna do a hundred percent quality I'm
gonna do 99 because look at the
difference
it goes from 404 0.7 all the way down to
3
50.2 so there's a pretty significant
difference there and yet no notable loss
enos to the image quality whatsoever so
if I even bring that down to 90 I can't
tell the difference there so I'm happy
with that that's only 134 kilobytes I'm
going to export that and now I've got
that file so we've established that now
we've got that cropped we've got it
scaled and we've got it saved to an
image that is nice and small and it's a
maximum resolution of 500 by 500 which
is important if you are going to be
using that online as an avatar or
something like that each site each
service that you're using is going to
have its own limitations yes as I say
YouTube has a limit of two megabytes per
therm nail image don't know why that is
I mean you can upload a 10 gigabyte
video yeah but then you can only have a
2 megabyte image yeah so so it's just
fine in that happy medium between crop
scale and the actual JPEG quality that
you are exporting
[Music]
[Applause]
