hello and welcome back to new every day
my name is Karen and my name is Jen and
on today's show we're talking about
getting out of your chair and getting in
the car and going somewhere wherever
even if you don't know where you're
going
[Music]
and
hey everyone thanks for tuning in to
another episode of new every day we're
back on the road and last week we talked
about getting up out of your chair and
this whole feeling behind well what what
motivates you to actually get up and
move like if God tells you to do
something and you're just going to go
and do it and it's so easy to stay where
we are to stay comfortable like pressing
the snooze button like this morning I
knew I wanted to get up for a run and
Jen will hear me press the snooze button
over and over and over and the last nine
minutes never make me feel good I'm
never like yes that was the best moment
and I'll say to her um carry your alarm
has gone off three times now okay be
honest pick your butt you want me to
wake you up
or do you want me to come back in an
hour and a half if you haven't moved yet
and she's like no no I'm going up and
then I'll be like are your feet on the
floor I'll be like oh and I know I want
to do important things and I always feel
better when I get up into it you know
yes and so we talked last week by the
fact that we said we just don't think we
have enough time or we don't do that
were filled up so we're not filled up
with the Lord spend time with the Lord
and so really if you have nothing to
give and you're right like those extra
10 minutes we always think it's gonna be
so good it's going to be so good or
maybe we can make it just right and as I
was saying when I was on my personal
retreat I was just like well I want the
dress right right I want I want to be at
the right spot I want the water and the
picture and thus are you talking about
chasing the sunset so chasing your loans
that I texted I said hey this is amazing
sunset where we are and she decides to
finally get out of the chair
yeah and I dry but I wanted it to be
perfect and so op you want things to be
just perfect and so we're right with
that I think sometimes pulls us back
that fear right well what if this isn't
perfect what is it what if what if the
person doesn't respond in the same way
or what if it doesn't turn out the way I
think it should and so yeah this fear of
either it's FOMO fear of missing out
like we're going to love we're going to
miss out or it's not going to be what we
think it should be like well I've often
felt that way but like sharing Christ
with other people okay
like had that feeling that well they
wouldn't appreciate it because a baby
and so you know what and it's not
politically correct to bring up God and
his love in this situation right so I'm
just I'm going to not and it's still
okay you know I'm going to pray for the
malaria right so it's not wrong to pray
for them but I have felt so strongly
sometimes it's like managed medical
brief enough well I mean you know what
the knees are sore back I need to go
crazy for that and like not kinda it but
then once again when I said yes and God
nothing's done it it has always been
great and I don't mean like people voice
it like yay Thank You yay God I believe
in God let's pray right now okay no but
I think it's been tied to the type of
Timothy I want you to be active in
sharing your faith so that you can
understand us present a plan for us and
right yes
it isn't sharing of what you believe of
how God sees people and put the gospel
right I got Lana Turner on a turn right
here yeah they're gonna love us that he
died for us
and plan for our life right like sharing
that without the people makes it more
real in my own mind my own heart right
so like just before you were on your
personal retreat on vacation and I went
on a road trip with some family and a
friend and we went to a conference in
the States
mm-hmm and it was amazing because it was
like encountering the gospel in a way
that I had not encountered mary-4 and
what what we would do is that we would
get together in the morning and we would
hear who's the winner
oh my mom my aunt and our friend I am no
but I mean we said we would get together
in the morning
oh we as in like the congregation all of
the conference of eating at the
conference okay sorry don't got it and
we would all be there and would hear
this period of speaker talk about the
love of God and talk about the power of
the Holy Spirit and the reality of the
cross and the reality of who Jesus is
and any right Lord of lords money fits
inside of it right and what the rivers
of living water flowing out of us
actually mean and what they look like is
bringing love and life to people right
in conversation through praying for them
so then we would be like set free to go
into a community and just have lunch but
ask God to show us so we can show love
to and so we can pray for and at first I
was like wow like this is really not
what I'm used to
right um and it isn't like an extrovert
convention I'm an extrovert but it was
like whoa and so anyways then we went
into the community right and just like
we would walk up and pray for random
people
like I said you know who to pray for
that was just ask page one time that God
loves you and can I pray for you by name
right and people say yes okay I look
like the wildest thing and as I stepped
out to do it my confidence grew look at
the time
this is a loving thing for me to share
with these people right it's not being
unkind and and I got to tell you we were
encouraged to pray for God to show us
something about that person right or to
show us who we should be and so I was I
was I thought this woman walking across
the parking lot and I was like I need to
pray for her and when I got to her I
said do you have a sore hip and she was
like yep come on can I pray for you yep
she's like yep she said let me pray for
her and like pray that God would bless
her like healer happen and like you wish
you part of the conference she was a
random gonna scream and I'm not saying
that to be like woohoo look I did it but
I was like man it felt so good to share
the goodness of problem other people
like it for real in my life and it took
getting up and going and actually it
took other people that I could see doing
that getting up and going then right I
was encouraged by that we are so
encouraged by that
and they were so loving and so like when
I see how people doing things and
getting up and going and you know on
that on the flip side it's like
sometimes you see people running that
triathlon or doing the marathon it could
be like well we're going to be me I'm
not going to write that I look at me I
just love on the couch potato about fit
or you can be like you know what I can
do that I can take that first step and
and in reaching out to people in that
way to being more bold and crank for
them and like believing God to work
miracles and people
I've been like well you know what
sometimes it doesn't happen so I'm just
going to pray for them about other
things and not for healing instead of
believing God and letting to do the rest
interesting yeah so we're going to pause
right there I want you to think about is
that something that you could do would
you just randomly stop so and say hey
time crazy moves back right after this
Jeff Weston Jemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you know all right you're terrible actor
what this where acting comes into play
I don't know where Isaac you're supposed
to act okay fair enough
I know I'm building a really cool
website are you building a really cool
website you need hosting one of the
things about a hosting account is you
don't want to have limitations put on
your website it's true how much hard
drive space you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you
for a very limited time cap five dot TV
slash dream host for just five dollars
and a bit of change per month you are
going to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the roof of your own
calm dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cap five dot TV slash
dream house still fulfill of a paper
something just don't do it but hey it's
a great deal folks best deal you're
going to find five dollars and change
per month go to cap five dot TV slash
DreamHost
hey and welcome back you are still
watching you every day of my name are
Phil carrion her name's Phil Chen so Ken
and we're still driving along and we are
chasing the Sun sediments right there so
beautiful and we just decided to get up
out of our chair
take OFS and what's so interesting is
another thing that prevents us from from
doing stuff is the fact that we all say
well we don't have any money we don't
have any I need to do something and very
often Kari and I will say we have food
omelet I'll be like hey let's go out or
she'll say hey let's go out it'll be
like we have food in the fridge she try
to peer pressure me to go for wings
today and I said no not there's a lot of
a fence game tonight we can't all the
girls Wild Wings
anyway the other thing is she is really
always up for an adventure that's the
best part of being Carrie's right so ah
but often will say oh no we're not going
to go out because there's you know we'll
save our money for something else well
was it last week or the two weeks ago I
had purchased to support one of the kids
at our local school some coupons I could
a coupon book I'm like okay because I
love this child I want to support
tomorrow by this coupon book so whether
I use anything out of it doesn't matter
so I open it up and I see this coupon
for a local Peter place and I'm like hey
Carrie you want to go it's like two for
one and she's like yeah and so what's
interesting is because I was moved by
compassion to help this child I spent
money thinking if I see and that's
another thing right sometimes we don't
want to get out of our chair because we
don't think we'll see the fruit yeah we
don't think we'll see the fruit of
whatever it is that we think we need to
see the fruit of but in my own life it
was actually not believing I wasn't
believing that if I stepped out in a
certain way that God would do his part
right hearts done Jesus came he
right we have light yeah you can have it
life to the full so all the other stuff
is sprinkled right you know and so yes
for that all right here we go hold on
carry so but that's I thought you know
if I never I felt I knew I needed to
help this kid okay yeah but I thought
even if I don't see any like fruit I
felt like getting in this counter you
actually wanted yes pretty much okay and
so found it and like hey I was going to
speed a place we go in we have great
conversation but what's so cool about
this is I come I go to back and I come
back and Kerry has struck up this
conversation with the guy who served us
and I'm like well this isn't I was the
normal because normally she starts
talking to whomever were with because
she's just that friendly I sometimes do
the same thing too so it's not that
strange she will leave and I will have
started talking to someone but then what
does she do Don Johnson yeah hey let me
pray for him and then I was like well
you want to come to church his like yeah
I've never been to church before I was
like get a piece of paper and Jen what's
happened car remember because I had a
large dress on it I was like like came
over here I was like here here's the
pestis car I know and it was just one of
those moments because and this is what
it means to just get out of your chair
yeah wait the kid presented and I'm like
alright and then I found the coupon
thinking okay dispute great opportunity
just for carrying on a hangout and have
a conversation but then it worked out
into her sharing the love of Jesus with
someone else and it's just very
interesting how God works things
together
my god works things together and so
often we we fail to get out of our chair
because we can't see how God could
possibly work this together yeah and it
was so challenging to me because I just
posted on Facebook a few like last night
that verse that God works all things
together right for good for those of
them exactly and because to the throw
the past two weeks I'm just seeing how
God works things together where I have
just stood up and I've done something
and then he's worked this out and worked
this out and left this out mm-hmm and
then I just sort of sit back and go wow
God are you ever good I knew I was good
like it took care like he just took care
of everything and I was like oh ye of
little faith
like what happened um like just the way
he worked like my mom came up for the
weekend
will be a weekend ago now and on my
friend had bought it this is the cool
thing
my friend had gone to the mall Lindor
had those little like things on sale
balls I have heard the 300 for 35 bucks
so she and her husband are in the mall
simply going for a walk this is why you
have to go for a walk sometimes because
you never know how God's going to use it
so they're going for a walk they see the
deal her husband says hey let's just do
it so they buy it well private talk they
bought this wonderful bag of Lindor red
ball chocolate makes Oh daddy so anyways
I was going to drop my mother at the
train station which is near to where my
friends what oh yeah I thought when she
posted I thought well have to say hey
make sure you have some left on Sunday
I'm stopping in about well I can't
commit so I dropped mom off I'm in the
process of dropping a mom-off and and i
read her post saying but all of her kids
were away so I was like oh it'd be a
good idea just to say hell mother thing
and uh check in how she's doing and so I
messenger saying
and shot my mom off at the train station
I thought I'd come by for a visit she's
like do you want to come by for roast
beef beef dinner you were like yes I did
I was like yes I do and my mom she like
I'm so glad you're gonna have a break
from driving that you have a break and
then you can drive back in about an hour
and a half in the train station to where
I live and but it was so interesting how
God worked all these things together
because as I was able to spend time with
her like it just he just worked all
those details best and I spoke got to
have some of the chocolate now this
whole story isn't about the chocolate
but it was about spending some time with
her yeah and and having a really good
conversation with her and her husband
and just saying WOW god you are so good
the way that you worked out my dropping
my mom off she not having any kids
around she making roast beef dinner and
I didn't mean like a crime and and she
even said and this is this is the
clincher she's like it will be ready in
40 minutes and I'm thinking I will be at
your house in 40 minutes if I was to
where if this was all to work out and I
walked in and she was literally carving
the beef and I'm thinking I know those
things don't necessarily seem spiritual
or that God's looking after us yeah but
why not but why not like he uses all
those simple little things he knit them
together and he says see I do love you I
got this and we I had a wonderful
conversation with them and it just like
if I just get out of your chair send the
text say hey can I like like you said in
last week's show you always have time
for a cup of coffee and I was thinking
oh I don't know I just want to get back
home when I want to go to bed and I felt
so like it took you know seeing her post
and realising actually she probably
could use a cup of coffee so I just the
messenger saying hey can I stop in and
was just like you know what's so great
about that at the end of the day it's
not really about us yes that's so true
it's not really about like I was always
feeling like good and happy and God to
get less of that which gives us good
gift sometimes but but here we are able
to say like wow that happened like God
is so good god is so good she took care
of all those details yes yeah I know and
that's where it's like unless you're
willing and the whole thing started but
that weekend was my mom asking or saying
she'd really like to come and see my
uncle and he knit and that's where it's
like God worked all things together and
it was me getting out of my chair or
making the phone call to my mom to say
why don't you come up for the weekend
yeah and it's like in my head I'm
counting the cost I'm like okay well
where are you going to stay what are you
going to eat and then I'm just like
sometimes we can like you said too much
introspection and we miss out and we um
want to go that way shirt and just
really challenging it but yet we need to
plan we need to count the cost and
really advantage it the cost was I'm
going to give up time to spend with my
mom yeah and and I love that first in
Proverbs it says the righteous give
without sparing yes and I want to give
in such a way believing that God will
just keep meeting my needs that way yeah
and I met this amazing woman in the
space and she like her and her friend
like didn't have a lot of money but man
were they crazy generous like Jaime
like found this homeless guy like ended
up giving him a ride somewhere gave him
money like like took care of him fed on
stopped at a gas station lot above a
shower and then like all all the week
that we were there they just crazy God
just ends up meeting their need and like
they would meet same at this random
woman who actually lost her house in a
house fire right and they were like you
know what just come just come to church
with us we'll come and pick you up and
then there in just being like people who
pay for their ticket to get this woman
in wow they just stepped out a more
generous and now inspired by that like
just get out of your chair do it just do
it so that brings us to the end of this
week of just get out of your chair we
encourage you just to get out of your
chair to make that phone call just to
count the coffee don't count it so much
that you miss the opportunity and so
maybe encouraged this week to get out of
your chair to trust God that he's gonna
provide for all of your needs according
to his glorious riches in Christ Jesus
