mar 4 2016 and hear the stories were
covering this week Raspberry Pi is
officially the best selling computer in
the UK and the internet is abuzz over
the Google for kids search engines but
we're going to let you know why you
might want to think twice before you
start using it and the Linux Mint attack
that we talked about last week maybe
worse than we initially thought when the
form of information was stolen and sold
on line also the executive director for
the wikimedia foundation has resigned
after stating that the group will not be
building our consider building a search
engine and microsoft plans to ship their
augmented reality device later this
month we've got all the details for you
coming up at just minutes we'll stick
around hi I'm Robbie Ferguson and I love
being a Vimeo Pro member as a web
broadcaster I need an affordable video
hosting platform that this flexible is
me a pro membership lets you upload up
to 20 gigabytes of HD video each and
every week with no additional bandwidth
restrictions that means if you produce a
show that uses even up to 20 gigabytes
of storage your limit resets itself the
following week so you can do another 20
gigabytes and keep doing that week after
week now category 5 with all of our
shows use roughly 10 gigabytes per week
from there vimeo automatically generates
all the files that you need to provision
your RSS feeds roku channel website
media player or even video downloads in
multiple bit rates with no limits on
your bandwidth usage or how many people
can access your files what's best the
price is astonishingly affordable and
for a limited time friends of the
category five dot TV network will
receive a whopping twenty-five percent
off the annual prize
all you have to do is go through our
link cap five dot TV / Vimeo and sign up
today for your twenty five percent
discount to top it off you get 30 days
to try it risk-free if you're not happy
with Vimeo Pro you pay nothing the deal
is only for a very limited time go to
cap five dot TV / Vimeo I'm Jeff
blessing here are the top stories from
the categories five cheesy newsroom with
more than eight million units being sold
in just under four years the raspberry
pi microcomputer is officially the UK's
best-selling computer the Raspberry Pi
isn't much to look at it consists of a
credit card sized processing board that
plugs into a computer monitor or TV
however its humble design hasn't stopped
it from becoming the best-selling
computer in the u.k just four years
since its launch the cambridge-based
firm has announced its own eight million
units since 2012 it beats the previous
record held by amstrad pcw which is said
to have sold a total of eight million
units from its release date in 1985 to
when it was discontinued in 2008 to
celebrate its unveiled the Raspberry has
unveiled the immediate availability of
its latest version of the simple
computer the raspberry pi 3 check it out
here's what it comes with a 1 point 2
gigahertz 64-bit quad AR I'm cortex a53
CPU say that 10 times real fast anyway
that is said to be 10 times as powerful
as the original Raspberry Pi it also has
Wi-Fi and Bluetooth and get this the
Raspberry Pi is now on sale for just 35
bucks they can have the same price as
the existing raspberry pi 2 so if you're
looking for another Raspberry Pi pick it
up and if you're hungry this isn't the
Raspberry Pi for you
okay a new website called kittle dot c o
has launched and it's promising a child
friendly search engine for kids browsing
the internet but the new tool appears to
have caused some confusion and concern
among users a number of new news outlets
has reported a search engine is the
official google spinoff looking to cater
to young internet users parents have
also welcomed the creation of the search
engine under the impression that is
google for kids one of the things we've
been seeing going on facebook and
twitter says that google's new search
engine for kids means no more finding
twerking videos by mistake thank
goodness for that it's really painful
videos to watch but the website is no
association with google it uses Google
custom search bar embedded within the
website which serves Google's safe
search results and lines of websites
owners pockets as they generate revenue
from the ads displayed a number of users
have reported their discoveries while
using the site one Twitter user posted a
screenshot of a simple search for rabbit
where the second result is a vile news
story involving a cruelty act towards a
rabbit not so kids safe anyone who's set
up with google's adsense program can
create kittles like search page and
generate revenue what's important to
note in this case is that while they
don't directly make the claim Kittel
does indeed present itself as a Google
for kids complete with familiar Google
logo colors it's a deceptive strategy
and that's why we don't recommend kittle
stick with the Google Safe Search or
perhaps consider using a parental filter
at the DNS levels such as an Open DNS
but the best protection for your kids is
to educate them about a safe internet
usage if you haven't done that it really
is your responsibility okay after last
week's news regarding the malicious iOS
the lint minix our Linux Mint Wow took
to the blogs again to notify users of
the forums that they've been compromised
also data leaked in the attack includes
avatars dates of birth email addresses
geographic location IP addresses
passwords be encrypted but potentially
crackable via brute force
timezones website activity unfortunately
these details have appeared online for
sale regarding the forum attacks users
should change the passwords on other
sites where the same password has been
used and clem lafave founder of mint
recommends that users should change
their email password first and then
passwords should be the same and any
passwords that are saying for different
websites okay go down to wikimedia the
founder are the executive director of
wikimedia foundation which runs
wikipedia has resigned after denying the
group is considering building a search
engine lela tretyakov wrote in an email
that it was time for her to move on a
leaked memo suggested the foundation was
looking at creating a commerce free
search engine and had set up the
volunteer wikimedia community many were
angry that it had not been discussed
first as transparency is the key to the
ethos of the organization in September
2015 Wikimedia was awarded a $250,000
grant from a trust called the knight
Foundation for work to advance new
models of finding information by
supporting stage one development of the
knowledge engine by Wikipedia a system
for discovering reliable and trustworthy
public information on the Internet the
project summary at the end of the
document although is author is unclear
states that the knowledgeable wet engine
would be the world's first transparent
search engine and the first one
originated by the wikimedia foundation
wikimedia claims that a search engine is
the intended outcome moving on to
microsoft microsoft plans to ship their
month anybody who's a fan of that get
ready we got information for you they
say that they'll start shipping a
developer version of hollow lens on
March 30th that's around the same time
that Facebook's oculus will begin
shipping the customer version of its
rift virtual reality headset now hollow
lens differs however in that it makes
the viewers see three-dimensional
objects in the real world rather than
blocking out the real and replacing it
with 360 directional fickt a tional
universe the hollow lens operates on
Windows 10 and unlike the rift requires
no tethering to separate the computer
uses a custom-built chip design on an
Intel platform and it'll it'll let users
record high-definition video that
recreates a mix of holographs overlaid
on the real world that should be shared
with people without the vote of the
device rift costs 600 bucks and the
developer hololens units would cost
three thousand dollars I don't want you
I don't know if that much money big
things this week to Roy w Nash s our
wenches and our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us if you found a
news story that you'd like to send email
it to newsroom at category-five TV for
all your tech news with a slight linux
bias this is the category 5 TV news room
at newsroom category 5 TV for the
category 5 TV news room on the road i'm
jeff weston
