welcome to category 5 technology TV
episode number 4 55 for the seventh of
June 2016 it is so nice to have you here
thanks for joining us tonight my name is
Robbie Fergerson I'm your host please
help me welcoming Kelsey Jensen yeah and
over low on the newsroom yeah we freed
her of the shelf but we are on the TV
screen Jeff West and over in the
newsroom nice to see you and tonight
what is going on tonight we've got a lot
going on lots of exciting stuff yes
kills you know well we've got lots of
fun stuff for the iphone 6 i get so sick
and tired of my phone's battery dying so
what are we gonna do about it we're
gonna extend your iphone's battery life
with a simple device it's going to give
you up to 50 hours of more battery time
that's pretty good you'll want to stick
around and find out more about that Jeff
Weston over in the newsroom what have
you got coming up my man all right
here's what's coming up in the category
5 TV newsroom Mark Zuckerberg social
media accounts were hacked but only
briefly the number of teamviewer users
who have been compromised continues to
rise but teamviewer maintained is due to
password reuse and weak passwords not a
breach in their system the alarm on
mitsubishi outlander hybrid car can be
turned off via security bugs in its
onboard Wi-Fi Airbus is showing off the
world's first 3d printed aircraft this
week in Germany it's freaking awesome
nice and blackberry thought that Android
would save their smartphone sales well
it would appear that they were wrong
they have we have more coming up on that
story a little bit stick around the full
details are coming up later in the show
then
is category 5 technology TV welcome to
the show you'll find our website at
triple w category five dot TV it is so
great having you here thanks for
supporting us this week hey have you
gone over to patreon it's patreon com
category 5 appreciate each and every one
of you who have become patrons and are
supporting the show it is people like
you that make this show possible for
everyone to enjoy and we just want to
thank you right off the bat big seller
on our on our web store this week as
well was the raspberry pi 3 and we
mentioned last week it was doing well
Jeff we did a feature back on episode
number 442 you remember and we talked
about the retro pie software how to get
the raspberry pi 3 turn it into an
amazing gaming console with a ton of
retro games and that seems to have been
something that people are really digging
so if you're into retro gaming that's
something to check out Jeff we built you
one yes we did how's it running Oh
incredible we got the upgrade for the OS
to fix the Bluetooth problem so ps3
controllers wirelessly are you able to
use more than one flawlessly so far I
haven't had a chance to play they just
haven't tried it I just haven't tried it
yet okay yeah I've been hogging all of
the pie time to myself all right and the
kids like that he can we play I'm like
go clean your room so okay daddy's
playing double oh seven right now i have
on hours we've got a single ps3
controller and a xbox 360 wireless
controller so i got the USB dongle off
of amazon for the xbox controller and
it's actually pretty decent well-built
controller so I like it and Becca and I
have been playing head-to-head Tetris
plus on PlayStation and that all runs on
the retro pie so check it out it's cat
five dot TV / pie to get your own
Raspberry Pi and of course you can find
out more about retro pie the gaming
system which you can build yourself
which is pretty cool which is pretty
cool get that on a t-shirt Kelsey Jensen
which is pretty cool
five dot TV / pie ah it was episode 4 42
when Jeff and I built that thing so
there's a great episode for you to check
out if you're into retro gaming I think
retro gaming is really on the comeback I
would it's it's like the ebb and flow of
retro games and we're in the middle of
the flow my friends well then you know
it because it's coming at you have you
logged into into steam lately and see
all the retro style games and the way
that gaming has been influenced over the
past five years by retro gaming look at
minecraft and mine test minecraft is
huge and it looks like it was from my
childhood as far as the graphics go
other than the array elements from the
sunshine but the the boxy graphics and
everything it's retro style yeah I'll
give it that we've got to take a really
quick break and we're gonna be back with
more about how we can save your battery
on your iPhone we're gonna actually
extend this thing up to 50 hours which
is pretty impressive why sure is it sure
it's a stick around Jeff westin Yellin
you're building a brand new beautiful
website what are you all right you're
terrible actor
what does we're acting comes into play I
don't know where I think you're supposed
to act okay fair I'm building a really
cool website are you building a really
cool website you need hosting one of the
things about a hosting account is you
don't want to have limitations put on
your website that's true how much hard
drive space you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cat five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the rules are your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat5 TV / dreamhost
stuff ahead of a paper something just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're gonna find five
dollars and change per month go to cap
five dot TV / dreamhost welcome back
this is category 5 technology TV I'm
Robbie and I'm Kelsey way over there I'm
Jeff Weston hey Jeff hey this is kind of
neat being in the TV it well you're the
TV I'm in the TV I haven't you're at a
multi-million dollar studio it says but
I want to be in the TV instead of just
in the internet he wants to get a shelf
he asks for too much well listen if I'm
gonna be an internet prima donna I'm
gonna start demanding things Jeff you
are an Internet prima donna he just
wants to be on the show who wants to
feel special only Kelsey gets the shelf
Kelsey and Roku 2 and micro drone three
point 0 which is coming soon to the
drone zone our brand new show which is
launching this season here on the
category 5 TV network whoo and that's
the kind of stuff that you support when
you go over to patreon it's not just
tech TV but we've also got our other
shows and the things that we're trying
to build up and the drone zone is
something I'm really excited about as
you
we're now we're into warmer weather
we've got some sunshine out there it's
time to get out there def and fire up
the drones and do some flying we're
gonna be teaching you how to fly we're
going to be reviewing some of the
hottest gear that is at right now and if
you've ever checked out micro drone
they're pretty cool they were like
IndieGoGo campaign city and they brought
out the one the two and now the three
it's got a gimbal accessory the world's
smallest drone gimbal fits on a micro
quad you definitely want to check it out
and it's coming soon from category 5 how
can you get it well a Roku you can tune
in to our Channel on roku and you'll be
able to get all of our shows how else on
our website triple w category five dot
TV are you learning yes i'm learning my
name where else can you live in studio
live in the studio yeah yeah if you are
on Cody if you want to watch the show on
Cody you can actually go to cat no not
part on me it's github.com / cat five TV
then you're going to get our cody
channel it's there look in the
repositories you'll see video category 5
TV the plugin for Cody very cool our
YouTube we're on YouTube we're all over
YouTube everywhere where every where you
are and if you're watching this on
youtube please give us a thumbs up just
say hi a little comment down either says
we love you kelsey please send us a
t-shirt oh we should find a way to
snapchat the show that big what would
that entail it'd be likes just legend is
just every five seconds is post one and
then this and then the photos just
disappear it's kind of like after the
show how it goes through and saves a
picture every 10 seconds yes and then we
use those for thumbnails so we find the
goofiest one ready for it yeah that's
okay probably go on it's 10 seconds
filthy except for all the yeah but Jeff
is there too yeah he's gonna get looking
like a muppet I do kind of look like
what just doing the thing with you like
meet me I just wait and figure than me
yeah that's all anyways we probably
should move on with our tech TV show
I know I know okay so by der create some
excellent products for your mobile
devices we've got a few here to look at
tonight first of all spider spelt with a
wise SP y de are check out some of their
stuff at cat five dot TV / spider so
they make really excellent accessories
for your mobile devices for example
we've got the LifeShield screen
protector this is shatter resistant it
is antimicrobial it is fantastic it even
enhances the screen whoa the clarity of
your screen becomes brighter and better
alright that's one then we've got a
battery case oh don't even don't even
yet you're getting ahead of us we got
batter yeah I know we got to take the
case off oh it's like I want to try on
the battery case so imagine being able
to stick a case on your phone that's
going to give you an extra 50 hours of
music got one love it gotta all right
and we've got the spider power this is
what is it the power shadow doc and this
is going to allow you to set the phone
in and it's going to recharge not only
the phone but also the case which gives
you the extra 50 hours of battery life
pretty good let's do it hey okay so
we've got an iphone 6 here these are
compatible with the various devices
please check out cat five dot TV /
spider so you've got your gonna pull off
this case oh don't bust his case it's
fine it's a two piece er what just take
off the whole thing in one piece you're
gonna probably pour your pop on it no
I'm not okay so this is the life shield
screen protector according to the box is
what I've got to go by as I mentioned
its antimicrobial but it is also impact
resistant it's tougher than tempered
glass this is better than yeah see sorry
Kelsey your phone is dead we're gonna
we're not going to smash it with a
hammer however it does show that it is
definitely stronger than your average
screen protector that's for sure it's
scratch resistant and you don't have to
deal with the annoying bubbles because
not only is it got the great applicator
thing here but it's also it's much more
solid yeah
alright so let's give it a try we've got
a big long instruction manual here its
secular is a plateau on belly yer Athene
that's the plateau de polyurethane well
maybe we should go to this flip it over
ah there we go secure the foam tray to a
clean non wood surface well this is why
I only have I only have would literally
we are in trouble you failed at step one
if you have a kitchen counter then
please remove these little stickers here
that's going to hold it down solidly to
your counter ok place your device in the
foam tray now of course we dropping it
already I see a lot of finger prints
here I wish that I had like a
static-free cloth I have by my car oh
well we're not gonna worry about and you
know what I don't even have to install
it what I'll do is I'll just mention
that you know this can be done yes
alright so all we need to do this is
great if you've ever been through this
before we don't really need to do it if
you've ever had to apply one of these it
can be tough to get it straight the
bubbles are a pain in the butt really
really hard to get so you pop your phone
into this special case that now places
the screen in the exact correct place so
then you remove the stickers as per the
pull here place it down and use this
applicator to pull that along the phone
and that is going to ensure follow the
directions that's going to ensure that
there are no bubbles and is perfectly
installed and then we've got our phone
ready to go yes alright so that's as
simple as that is that is the screen
protector it's called lifeshield that's
available at cat five dot TV / spider
and a game spider has a why spyder with
a why let's throw this over here boom
alright next yep next up we've got the
battery case this one I'm excited about
kels even without the doc this is going
to work for you so the doc is a great
accessory going to show you that in
a minute this is going to give you about
now they've done the tasks about 10
hours of web surfing in addition to your
already existent iphone battery okay
pretty much basically basically twice as
much yeah battery space from a technical
standpoint this case has a 2,750
milliamp hour battery built into it so
that means you're probably looking about
15 hours of extra telephone time if you
need to talk on the phone then nothing
like having your phone battery died well
you're in the middle of an important
call or you're just at the grocery store
and you need to get stuff and you don't
know what it is and you want to call
home and then the battery dies it's
always the case 11 hours extra video
time if you want to watch videos there
you go and as I mentioned about 50 hours
if you can believe it 50 hours extra
music time so fantastic let's let's
break into this the easiest upgrade for
your iOS device right here I should be
letting you do this here you rip into it
okay this is the person who has I got it
it did it first try first try I know
what you were gonna say she's gonna
spill pop on it it's true kids over
there chat rooms talking but she goes
like that she hits it and it goes all
over the server you watch okay so this
looks like kels just a normal iphone and
case right it's not thick here's here's
the original case that the phone had on
it this is just a protective case looks
very similar as far as size goes a
little bit longer a little bit thicker
but not by much ever so slightly thicker
not not really I don't know if you guys
can see that at home really but that's
about the difference yeah there you go
so let's see how hard this is to install
your phone oh you really don't need
directions for this to you well you
never know all right ya never know I
would seriously laughs if she needed the
instruct
she's gonna break the phone and I'm
spill her for it then she's like I need
the instructions ok I am I'm so gonna
break something oh come on Cal's here
let's take a look ok here i'm gonna i
can just show you how this how this is
so you look at the bottom of your phone
you look at the right there see if i'm
in focus and that just sinks in there
goes into the charge port of your phone
and then snaps in there you have it it's
as simple as that and now i've just
extended the battery life of my phone
exponentially now this phone is turned
off right now it actually looks pretty
good this again is an antimicrobial case
so this is going to it's going to reduce
by about ninety-nine point nine nine
percent the growth of bacteria people
you use your phones in the bathroom
folks so you want that antifungal oh
yeah now your case can protect you
against fungus yay as well it reduces
yes fungi i say that's my kids all the
time i say you know i'm such a fun guy
they all roll her eyes yeah and they
yeah humor it's light humor you have to
yep you have to it inhibits the growth
of bacteria mold mildew and funky on the
surface its water resistant it is
dustproof and as we mentioned it gives
you a lot of extra battery life there
you have it nice little upgrade on the
base here kels i see two ports yeah
let's see if we can get into those i
have no nails neither do i this port
here is your USB micro so that's your
standard charge cable if you want to
charge your phone as that just know
that's not even an iphone what it's just
a regular right whoa yeah so you've just
converted your iphone into USB micro
yeah nice next you'll be running android
folks and then it also works as a sync
cable so it's not just charging it also
syncs but it charges not only the
phone but also the case so the case
becomes charged as well it does have
access to let's see can you get into
that maybe maybe try to yeah oh I got it
Kelsey I got it did you this is the
first time I guarantee you that the
second time isn't going to be as hard
that's just access to your headphone
jack so plus you can plug your
headphones so this bit is a accessory
that simply allows your headphones to
plug in because there is a little bit of
extra depth there so if your headphones
don't fit in that hole this will extend
it for you because it's very very thin
my headphones have a bunch wider jack
yeah that's kind of a bonus your regular
headphones there you go okay next up
we've got the power shadow dock which
requires no explanation I don't think
else so you just put those nubs back as
they were yes here we go da da da so
this is a USB accessory so of course you
can plug this into the USB output of
your existing charger that you're using
for your iphone that's going to work
just perfectly or you can plug it into
your computer your Mac your windows or
your Linux system if you're on Mac or
Windows it's going to work to sync your
iphone not too sure how it works on
linux as far as but as standard sink so
i think that you need to have special
software or maybe jailbreak or something
for that but but essentially that's
going to give you a docking port that is
not just a charger but also sink if you
plug it into the computer itself there
you go so it's called spider that's the
name of the company and these are the
the power shadow accessories available
for various phones so we're looking at
an iphone 6 tonight but that's just the
one that we had on hand and they are
available for a variety of different
devices so check it out cat five dot TV
/ spider with a why yeah spider spider
spider
this is category 5 technology TV welcome
the show we just throw it because it's
got oh we didn't install that screen
right okay don't forget your phones over
here yes perfect all right I'll just
clear the desk clear the desk so that we
can have my room to wave our hands road
just like that okay so tonight Kelsey
what's coming up do you know got lots of
stuff feel like go ahead we're gonna
install well I'm over here you can tell
them we're gonna salt and boo boo to
mate with llvm labeled I'm gonna tell
you a little bit about what that means
kelsey has no clue and she's
demonstrating that a long time ago we
did a review where we showed how to do
the ultimate backup in linux using hot
copy well that is long gone last week I
wanted to cover this we ran at a time
hot copy allowed us to do essentially
what the name says which is to do
backups and copies of files while
they're hot so if you've got a virtual
machine running the vmdk file is in use
you can't back it up traditionally
because you'd have to shut down the
virtual machine and then back up the
virtual machine that does not work in a
production environment if you're working
on servers and you've got some virtual
machines running or you've got some
files that are changing all the time
databases for example or email coming
into the system it's not ideal to not be
able to do backups without shutting it
down I've seen companies that shut off
mysql to be able to do a backup and then
fire it back up again so they're only
down for a couple minutes but they're
down for a couple minutes I'd rather do
my backups in such a way that we're hot
we're on the fly and we're able to do it
without having to shut anything down so
we're going to talk about lvm it's the
tool that is modern so hot copies dead
now we're moving on to what's called
logical volume management and with that
which is part of the Linux operating
system the colonel you're going to be
able to do just what I've explained and
a lot more so we're going to talk about
that just after the news tonight you
want to stick around let's head over to
the newsroom Jeff Weston how
yeah I'm good you good man excellent so
you're going to the news mmm okay all
right gonna call my arm it's Tuesday jun
7 2016 hear the stories were covering
this week Mark Zuckerberg social media
accounts were hacked but only briefly
the number of teamviewer users who have
been compromised continues to rise but
teamviewer maintains instituted the
password we use and weak passwords not a
mitsubishi outlander hybrid car could be
onboard Wi-Fi airbus is showing off the
week in Germany and Blackberry thought
Android would save their smartphone
sales turns out they were wrong these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere now here's another great way
you can support the shows you love for
the category five dot TV network by
shopping gearbest that's the right Jeff
cap five dot TV / gearbest it's an
online store for the geek streak in you
or the loved ones well of course I mean
especially your loved ones right because
cat5 TV / gearbest quite frankly has all
of the greatest tech gifts that you
could ever hope for at rock bottom
prices to their cell phones you betcha
cat5 TV / gearbest has a wide assortment
of unlocked android cell phones and
tablets what about compute consumer
electronics those make a great gift
absolutely from high-tech watches to
action cameras headphones even virtual
reality headsets cat5 TV / gearbest has
you covered they literally have it all
Jeff literally really it's like a
superstore right from the comfort of
your own chair at your computer through
the interweb yeah I there's no way they
have it all it's true it's just a bunch
of a random electronic Sesame
what about clothes yep both men and
women fashionable apparel at rock bottom
SuperDuper prices kinda like this well
look at this coat what do you think it's
a slimming mock leather jacket I love it
it's available for less than thirty
dollars plus free shipping a cat5 TV /
gear best yeah all right you kinda got
me there Wow any other questions for me
Jeff ah now that the winter is past
flying season do they have any good
deals on say drone copters oh my
goodness well check this out dude they
have everything check out over 500
various drums and not only that they're
available marked down by about 32 up to
63 percent off the regular price love it
what's the website again while you're
gonna find gearbest on our partners
pages for any of your favorite category
5 TV shows like new every day category 5
technology TV the pixel shadow but of
course if you want to shop absolutely
right now and you want to go straight to
the site all you have to do is visit cat
five dot TV / gearbest see that's easy
cat five dot TV / your best that's right
happy shopping I'm Jeff Weston would
hear the top stories from the category 5
TV news room he might run the world's
biggest social networking site but not
even Mark Zuckerberg is a new to being
hacked the Facebook founders accounts on
sites including instagram twitter
linkedin and pinterest appear to have
been briefly compromised on Sunday a
hacker group called our mind which had
more than 40,000 Twitter followers
claimed responsibility the group bragged
about the alleged hacks and the tweet
and invited mr. Zuckerberg to contact
them hey at fin KD we got access to your
Twitter and Instagram and Pinterest
we're just testing your security please
dms some reports suggested that the 2012
hack of LinkedIn may have been
responsible for the breach last month it
was reported that 117 million linkedin
username and password combinations that
were stolen four years ago were being
sold in the dark web for five bitcoins
which is worth about two
thousand three hundred dollars the
passwords were encoded but in a form
that appears to have been relatively
easy to unravel kind of an interesting
story considering you're like literally
the owner of the internet basically much
yeah I was shocked a little bit at the
simplicity of the password that was used
so just to be clear from this screenshot
this is Mark Zuckerberg account that is
tweeting this or LinkedIn maybe no it
would have been that sis was with her
hospital and this was the password that
was that was used I know that he doesn't
really use Twitter but it's still an
official account yeah I'm surprised with
the guy like Zuckerberg his password
wasn't God haha as simple as that as
simple as that but da da da but doesn't
it just show that even tech-savvy
brilliant minds are stupid when it comes
to passwords that's okay he'll just put
a capital we all out with one at the end
yes and that it's all good he'll just
reverse it add add add that's perfect
just like facebook add add add facebook
password security even tighter like
doesn't have to be eight characters i
think in his past only six there you
have it mark follow the rules man we're
all doing it you should too yes well
speaking of weak passwords letting
hackers into people's accounts it's been
a tough couple of weeks for teamviewer
which is a service that allows computer
professionals and consumers to log in
from their computers for from remote
locations for a little more than a month
a growing number of users have reported
their accounts were accessed by
criminals who use their highly
privileged position to drain paypal and
bank accounts critics have speculated
teamviewer itself has fallen victim to a
breach that's making the mass hacks
possible on Sunday teamviewer spokesman
Axl Schmidt that is a great name that is
like a gaming handle if I ever heard I'm
actual Schmidt that's great anyway it's
not but we digress but we just stumbled
upon an amazing man
let's have a moment of silence Sam back
to the not his password there you go
nobody could spell Schmidt that's the
actual Schmidt he acknowledged to ours
that the number of takeovers was in
quotes significant but he continued to
maintain that the compromises are the
result of user passwords that were
compromised through a cluster of
recently exposed mega breaches involving
more than 642 million passwords
belonging to users of LinkedIn mindspace
and other services good way of throwing
under my space myspace yeah there are
users on myspace it was the old myspace
account it was the counts I'm gonna say
it was like pre 2008 that's all myspace
account yeah no no there's there's
myspace died off like 2009 2010 yes it
did yeah so there was still some new
accounts created since then yeah it's
mostly bands Wow grandma and grandpa
you're behind believe it or not I
checked out myspace two months ago yes
it was still active there's new couch
being set up all over about four years
ago I looked and my 10 year old profile
was still up yeah and I thought that was
kind of interesting yeah I pretty much
musicians and those in the exactly
industry that had acts had accounts
there I fall into the musician category
I don't fall into either I never had a
myspace that's cuz you're so young you
would have been like before my speakers
by his old is like he-man Wow mine was
soul cleansed my myspace account was
soul cleanse so before my wife and I got
married and we now have three kids we
have our daughter is turning 11 this
weekend so just to put it into
perspective how old myspace is to me wow
that's how old soul cleanses and I
remember we playing your songs on the
radio you played my songs on the radio I
did hit number one a couple times you
did I know yeah soul cleanse com
download the CD for free is it still
active it's still there it's classic I
think it was built for a 640 by 480
display it's like a little square in the
middle of the website
goody I hands go to sulk ladakh I I had
hair jam did I did even up here how
amazing i was gonna join you guys to a
mate you did on one of the songs where
did you go I forgot about download the
CD look for the song called there you go
fishin category there you go yeah open a
myspace account that in your one bedroom
that was our studio javi do our studio
somebody else's bedroom now before I had
kids yeah it was a studio oh yeah back
to whatever the news oh yeah oh I'm
sorry I got distracted with why space I
am I didn't even know I I didn't know I
was here right sorry about that so I go
back to that story that we were talking
about with people to do the things the
vast majority of the cases that we see
you have to do with there was a yeah out
of data breach what what still talking
about data breaches yes Oh two cars yet
did say was gonna be the best news ever
this is like a train wreck everybody
watch and listen uh where was I whatever
they were we're pointed to the potential
TeamViewer account abuses we check
internally to determine to see to see
what there is and in virtually every
case we see that the passwords and
account credentials have been used
elsewhere in an interview with ARS
technica Schmidt said another factor
that plays a significant role is that
people aren't using very strong
passwords like da Zuckerberg they use
the name of a spouse or a kid or a pad
or simply baby names da that simply do
not have strong enough security measures
in place like anti-malware antivirus and
the type of thing that belongs on those
everyday computers another thing that we
would recommend apart from selecting a
very strong password unlike da da is to
use password managers because that's the
only way that you're going to get
something that's nice and strong it
remembers one password I can store all
of them quite safely okay mitsubishi
outlander is the latest in a series of
cars that have been found wanting when
it comes to security the alarm system
can be turned off by way of security
bugs on its onboard Wi-Fi
comes out about about as an app is
available to vehicle owners to allow
them to control some of these smart
features of the car such as the alarm
but a security team is confirmed that
the very system that the app connects to
its is insecure and it's easy to inject
commands into the vehicles operating
system the loophole could mean thieves
who exploit the bugs gain time to break
in and steal a vehicle the vulnerability
can also be used to fiddle with some of
the car settings and drain its battery
it's officially recommended that users
turn off the Wi-Fi while it investigates
the issues with the system Wi-Fi in a
car is something I don't think I ever
would have said growing up and didn't
know a Wi-Fi was be the fact that you
gonna fly fi in a car I love how fast
technology is advancing well used to
have car phones I know we also have the
zack morris phone oh yes and Kelsey
Cohen who's that guards I'll see ran out
really oh I was born after 95 so oh I
weep for our future generations what is
wrong here folks ah I you know what I
just want to take my mic off quit the
news and walk out it took saved by the
bell to make him this upset folks
Millennials all right we should probably
go back to buy huge jets all around the
mini plane Thor was nonetheless sorry I
met its we meant to look at that
screenshot there you go what's isn't
that unreal alarm yeah that's it that's
all it takes yeah that's all it takes
that's amazing okay so Thor not the
Norse God but we're talking about a very
small Airbus Marvel which is the world's
first 3d printed aircraft wings freaking
awesome windowless weighing in at just
46 pounds and measuring less than 4
meters long the drone Thor short for
tests of high-tech objects in reality
resembles a large white model airplane
yet to the European airspace giant
Airbus this
all pilotless propeller aircraft is a
pioneer that offers a taste of things to
come an aviation future with 3d printing
technology that promises to save money
fuel and time death love Khanna Gorski I
hope it was in charge of developing Thor
for Airbus said this is the test of
what's possible with 3d printing
technology we want to see if we can
speed up the development process by
using 3d printing not just for
individual parts but for the entire
system in Thor the only parts that are
not printed from a substance called
Paula made are the electrical component
components the chief engineer Gunnar
Haas said the planes flies beautifully
and it's very stable I love the story we
just had the 3d printing episode a few
weeks ago with our interview I forget
the guy his name that was John Hornick
John Warnock that's right so many cool
things in his book and the fact that
like we've got 3d printed blades I love
it it's amazing it's amazing how
technology has changed imagine what
could be done if the materials were
available on another planet it yeah like
if you can build a plane and all you
need to bring is the component like the
basically the the poly yep exactly it's
so cool all right blackberry is
reportedly having some issues in its
transition to Android a report from cnet
quotes a high-level executive at AT&amp;T is
saying the blackberry prive is really
struggling both companies expected to
see demand for an eye android phone with
a physical keyboard but that demand
never materialized blackberry apparently
has a problem appealing to the general
public with a report that says that most
of the buyers were blackberry loyalists
those diehard blackberry users struggled
to adapt to Android which the executive
says led to higher returns BlackBerry's
q4 results came out in April and they
show lagging performance as well the
company sold 600,000 handsets for the
quarter which was short of Wall Street's
expected 850,000 units BlackBerry's own
CEO John CEO John Chen has called out
sales of the probe is critical saying
the company was thinking of getting out
of the heart
we're market he's also said that the
company still had two more mid-range
android phones in the works which would
come in somewhere around the four
hundred dollar price point you know I
used to be a die-hard blackberry
individual then I got out and went to
apple and then I got out of Apple and I
fell in love with android phones so the
fact that they're just trying to bridge
that gap and cut out Apple I love but it
is a bit of a transition I think it
comes down to people love that tactile
keyboard personally I don't I find it
kind of annoying especially because I
like to turn the phone sideways and the
it's a vertical keyboard but what's
happening is people who are used to the
blackberry OS switching over to Android
like that they've got sure they've got
the keyboard but the operating system is
different right so the the learner you
know they think oh it's going to be easy
because it's blackberry and it's got the
keyboard well it's completely different
OS that's not what you're used to and
that's why returns are high yeah those
two worlds can't really mix I loved
having the keyboard with my blackberry
but that's because I could drive with
one hand type out an email and using
muscle memory dude you're not supposed
to this is before legal laws this is
like Ted before the hands-free laws it
wasn't dangerous wow that was fail was
dangerous I was Pro let me tell you
skype as emails were written from the
road people like when did you write this
I'm like on my way to work like a boss
mic drop just like that now that I've
got a screen I just not cool it's all
garbled ugh don't drink and drive don't
text and drive that's it keep your hands
on the steering wheel tendon both hands
I resides inside at all times bingo
that's probably a good advice as well
all right big thanks this week to roy w
dash and our community of viewers for
submitting stories to us if you found a
new story that you like to send email it
to newsroom a category 5 TV for all your
tech news with a slight linux bias this
is the category 5 TV news room and
newsroom category five dot TV for the
category 5 TV news room i'm jeff one
thanks Jeff this is category 5
technology TV i'm your host Robbie
Ferguson Kelsey Jensen hiya Kelsey hi
all right we talked a little bit earlier
about lvm what it means from a Linux
perspective it's not a file system don't
get me wrong we're still going to go
with ext3 ext4 whatever you want to use
it's basically its volume management
it's the way your system interprets your
hard drives so we're you know you've got
a hard drive in / dev / SDA well that is
now going to become something different
because we're going to create logical
volumes makes no sense right I'm going
to tell you what the main advantages to
me of lvm our first of all if you ever
have run out of space on your linux
computer it's an opportunity for you to
be able to add more space without having
to rebuild your system so let's say
you've got your home folder you've got a
whole bunch of stuff in there you've got
a whole bunch of your music and videos
and all that and you run out of space
well traditionally what you would have
to do is install another hard drive move
the files over to that harddrive hope
doesn't fail in the process and then
change your home folder to be that new
hard drive well with lvm instead you can
just simply add another hard drive and
then expand your volume group to include
that hard drive and then expand your
your actual logical volume so the hard
drive space itself so it's not a raid
but it is it sort of sounds a little bit
like that where you can throw another
hard drive in it it doesn't have to
match if I put another two hair two
terabyte hard drive into it it gives me
two terabytes of extra space if I add
that to the logical volume so all that
to say makes it easy peasy to add more
space to your volume because you don't
have to you don't even have to really
shut it down you can just do it on the
fly and add more space easy breezy what
else can we do you can deprecated old
media if you've got failing media for
example you've got or maybe an older
hard drive that's smaller I've got a
couple of four fifty gigs in servers
that also have two terabyte drives so
you know to pull those drives out put in
a new drive and just ran
for the data over is easy breezy with
with lvm and the big thing for me is
snapshot backups being able to take
snapshots of the operating system as
it's running with everything running not
having to shut anything down so we're
talking server damon's we're talking
virtual machines all those things can
continue to run and then we can take a
virtual snapshot of the hard drive or
the volume so this is the logical volume
so that I say hard drive it could be
spanned over 5 hard drives if that's how
you have your volume group set up so
we're going to take a snapshot of that
volume and then we're going to be able
to copy it to other media we're going to
be able to back it up online we're going
to be able to back it up to a server or
however we do our backups but we don't
have to shut anything down so a virtual
machine for example can continue to run
as normal you can continue to use it it
can be if it's a server environment
maybe it's running Apache or something
like that and all your your data basing
and things so it can continue to run and
still operate as normal but the snapshot
is a moment in time so your backup is
persistent so as things are changing in
the virtual machine it's not affecting
the snapshot we back up the snapshot
then we remove the snapshot and your
backup is a perfect image of that point
in time fantastic for backups it starts
though with the installation of Linux
now there are two ways to establish a
volume group which is to basically add
lvm to your Linux machine first way is
of course to install your operating
system as it right from the insulation
to install with lvm so that will
automatically partition during the
partitioning process of the installer
and and setup lvm for you so it's nice
and easy and you don't have to figure
things out that's the first version and
that's what we're going to learn tonight
and then the next way is on an existing
running operating system you can add an
lvm logical volume management group to
to that existing system whether you add
another hard drive or simply shrink down
a partition and then add a partition
which is a Linux lvm either one of those
will work we're going to also look at
those through the course
series and then we're going to be
looking at lvm snapshot backups and all
of that kind of stuff first of all
though Kells it starts with installing
linux right we did that yeah you have
done that I did that you did that ed but
this time we're going to do a little
pardon me a little bit differently here
we've got ubuntu matei and we are about
to install it so we've booted up from
the media and we're going to go install
Lubuntu matei it's going to take us
through a real quick process of asking
us a couple of questions first of all do
we want to download updates while we
install do we want to install
third-party software let's say yes to
both of those is going to save us some
time post-installation continue and we
just wait for the media to load it it's
not an overly time-consuming process
here but let's get there I hate a Jeff
we came from radio and so I hate dead
air I know it's like we're waiting for
the install to proceed to the next step
as soon as jenn air as soon as you're
like I was gonna wait for that I'm like
quickly look at the Chairman would you
please be there's a question somewhere
we got it we got switch modes we got to
talk about something talk about it so
how about those days just talk to my
wife about this today I was like you
know when you're in the middle of doing
a bit and also in the computer freezes
you gotta go to your den and disk and
pull your yeah cops and it's like okay
another PSA so such-and-such church is
having a garage sale this weekend that's
right that's how tough we did on the fly
oh my goodness Jeff it's ready for us
though that's all it took that's amazing
all I did was the HyperX SSD Drive and
like that oh it would have been so much
faster on a kingston hyperx yeah all
right so here we go this is the next
step installation type erase disk and
install Lubuntu matei that is
destructive keep that in mind now we've
got encryption if we want that or and or
use lvm with the new ubuntu matei
installation that is the step that is
going to of course set up logical volume
management it allows taking snapshots
and easier partition resizing that's a
really brief in
description that does not tell us we're
bhosle whatsoever the power of lvm but
that's all there is to it so now we just
proceed with the installation and that's
going to begin partition in the system
so make sure you do check off use lvm
with the new ubuntu monta installation
kubuntu matei of course you can get that
at boone to dash matei dot oreck is it
org it is or isn't it no clue why are
you asking me because you have a
computer in front of you yep she's a
millennial yep all right because you're
the co-host of the broadcast booth cuz I
don't want to have to do everything but
hey dot and its Pelt mate try org what
see if I was right yes bear see wasn't
hard consolidation at its finest yep
there you have it there you have it so
once the installation of a boon to Ma
Tei that's a free operating system is
Linux once it's finished installing for
you we're gonna boot it up here it comes
oh yeah you know I'm getting a new
computer should arrive tomorrow I can't
wait to put this on it are you putting a
boon to matei on it Yemen I am tempted
to throw a boon to matei at everything
every piece of hardware i have is
getting a kingston SSD and a ubuntu mata
install i'll take a kingston SSD in my
phone that I can't do Oh what you said
everything uh does it must be we could
use an external chassis Oh foiled yes
those USB it's ready for us look at that
ok so let's jump into our terminal that
is under system tools under applications
mattei terminal and here at the mat a
terminal let's do a couple of little
queries here so now keep in mind of
course I just did the install of course
we sped things up by I already
pre-installed it so i rebooted the
system and here we are at the distro
because this is a live show we didn't
want to have to wait for an install
again we've already been through that so
now
I've booted it up I have lvm active on
this a boon to Ma Tei installation so
let's take a look at how we can
determine or confirm that if you will so
if i type sudo and there are a couple of
commands that are going to help us first
of all we want to look at our volume
group so it's a VG volume group display
and when we type that oh it didn't even
ask me for my password nice you'll see
that my first volume group the only
volume group because this is just
automatically deployed is called ubuntu
matt a dash VG for volume group that's
just the name that they gave it during
the installation process when we create
our own volume group we can call it
whatever we want the format and so on it
has some information about it primarily
the main thing that we want to know is
that it is 39.5 two gigabytes and we can
look even closer by actually looking at
the hard drive so if we go fdisk pardon
me sudo fdisk and / dev / SDA in this
case and once I'm in fdisk i can press p
for print and hit enter and that is
going to show me that i have there's a
39.5 gig linux lvm partition inside of
this extended partition so that's taking
up basically the end of the the drive
almost all of it there are 487 megabytes
dedicated to the bootloader so we can
get out of out of that clear the screen
and now we want to look at the well
there are a couple of different commands
here let's try lv4 logical volume scan
and lv scan is going to show us a list
of the active and inactive volumes
within our logical groups so we can see
that it created route and swap one we're
going to look closer at those but notice
that we're not looking at dev / SDA 5
we're actually looking at dev / Lubuntu
dash matei VG / swap one that's our swap
partition and that's about a gigabyte
and then we've got / route and that is
our main file system i suppose 38.4 9
gigabytes all over
set up for us now let's look at the
volume groups a little closer pseudo l
the display blue there we go and this
gives us more details much more verbose
about those logical volumes so we've got
the path to each volume as we already
previously saw here notice that that
matches but then we've got a lot more
information so what volume group is it a
part of because you can have multiple
volume groups we've got a uuid if you
want to add it to FS tab for example if
this is something that you're adding
after the fact that's handy it has
readwrite access it's got some more
information about it and it is 38.4 nine
gigs this is the logical volume so think
of that as a partition to put it into
perspective that we're familiar with so
SDA is a hard drive we know that well
comparatively Ubuntu dashmat a VG is our
volume group so that's our group of hard
drives but it basically is tip for tat
similar in the way that we think about
it because then on the SDA we would
create a partition and that would be
sda1 SDA to SDA 5 similarly we create
logical volumes on our volume group
called ubuntu matei VG so now those
volumes become named in this case root
and there's another logical volume
called swap one which is most likely the
swap partition for our computer so now I
suppose I should be able to pseudo fdisk
dev and our volume is located at Ubuntu
DashMat a dash BG
I'm gonna cheat so you see it's just
like it's just like dev assignments we
can go be careful folks we don't want to
mess around with it but that is
basically well let's look shows as a
dose volume there you have it so we have
our volumes all set up lv display ready
to go the thing that we notice though is
if we add these two logical volumes up
38.4 nine gigs and another gig so
basically 40 gigs and then we look at
our volume group VG display you'll
notice that it is actually going to be
using well we we have nine Meg's free on
our entire our entire volume so there is
no there's no space to do anything else
so if we want to do things like
snapshots or anything like that we need
to have more space we're going to
explain how that works on next week's
show but that at least gets us to the
point where we now have logical volumes
up and running on a boon to Ma Tei
that's from an out-of-the-box
installation so we've done a clean
install and it's it's ready to go
however there are opportunities for you
to be able to add it to an existing
Linux installation without having to
wipe out your system I feel definitely
useful I've used it on on servers where
you know we want to move things on to a
logical volume so that we can back them
up virtual machines of the prime example
right mysql databases prime example
because you don't have to shut things
down in order to do to do the backups so
i know that it's a lot of geekery a lot
of crazy ridiculous stuff to follow but
the key point here with lvm is you know
what you're installing your linux
operating system it asks you do you want
to set
lvm just say yes you might as well say
yes because you know what it's not going
to make any difference to you if you
don't use it however if you ever decide
that you do want snapshots or the
ability to add more hard drive space
easily without having to move files
around from system to system to
different disks and create mount points
and mount those disks and hope that they
all work if you want you know if you
ever get to that point if you've already
got lvm set up your already
pre-configured so it makes things a lot
simpler in a case where you've got a
prebuilt system and we're going to see
this next week because now we have a
system that basically it's lvm but
there's no space left on the device so
we need to resize one of the partitions
in order to give us space for other lvm
volume logical volumes it sounds it's
sitting there going whoo Zack Morris
exactly a little bit exactly so on a
server it works great on your desktop it
works fantastically well and on your
laptop same deal you might as well just
install with lvm chelsea we yes we have
a question fantastic chat room um with
the old method once i am done adding the
new hard drive formatting and copying
all my home folders on to it how do i
tell linux that linux that might now
minute Zack Morris ah that might now
home partition or folder will be dev SD
okay so we're looking at doing this so
we're looking at lv ms tonight and over
the next couple of weeks but you're
talking about the old style way of doing
things moving your home folder onto new
media because your home folder is full
and then reconfiguring your system to
use the new hard drive as
your home folder well I am NOT going to
answer that for you tonight because I
got something way better for you
especially considering it as three
minutes until the end of the hour I'm
going to do a quick little search here
easy way to find stuff you know what our
search is kind of lacking right now on
on our website but that's going to be
changing just head over to google and
type this is what we want to do move
home folder linux site colon category 5
TV episode 3 37 move your linux home
folder to another drive and why you'd
want to do that ok so we've already
covered it it's probably one of our more
popular Linux geekery features because
it was very very thorough and explains
everything so if you want to move your
home folder on to another drive to free
up space and and reconfigure things
follow that tutorial it's verbose and it
tells you everything you need to know
and of course if you have questions
comment in the comments below that video
with regards to that or if you have any
questions regarding lvm or anything that
we're going to be covering over the next
couple of weeks just comment below
please like this video and subscribe and
yeah stuff don't miss next week's show
that's when we get into the fun stuff
this is like the this is that you know
how everything is you gotta you gotta
practice practice practice before you
can put on the play right that's true so
this is this is the practice folks this
is the grueling work that we gotta do in
order to get to the point where we are
running the most brilliant backups of a
running system whoo there you have a
Jeff Weston in 3d hey buddy here in 3d
fun times mixes for textual that's sure
yeah you know we should just we should
just upgrade all the cameras to 3d you
should there you go yep it look amazing
but then put on your glasses for
additional II large by hoses
it's a very freakishly bold your heads
they can hardly see that Kelsey if you
wish to see lights there'd still be
glare coming off my head somehow somehow
matter what you did can't believe that
the hour is gone folks it always flies
right time always flies right by but
again don't miss next week's show we're
gonna have a lot of fun with you as we
learn about volume group backups
snapshots well that kind of fun stuff
and we always throw something exciting
your way as well because it would it be
category 5 it's definitely true post
your questions in the comments below or
send us an email lie that category 5 TV
the meantime have a fantastically thanks
for being here but
