this week's episode of the pixel shadow
is recorded straight to an AGP tech
video capture device if you like the way
this looks hey check it out for yourself
it's so super easy all you got to do is
plug it in press record middle saved
directly to a USB flash or SD card with
no video capture software to bring down
your FPS check it out a cat5 dot TV /
AGP tap welcome to the pixel shadow I'm
bald nerd it's so good to have you here
today welcome back and we're standing in
my home and I love each and every one of
you and I'm so happy for those of you
who gave us a thumbs up on YouTube thank
you so much for that we didn't quite hit
150 as I had hoped because I really
really want to visit Xanadu but
unfortunately it costs us 150 likes to
get there it's a very far far reach to
travel and in order to get there I need
150 likes but I heard that we have a
sale going on right now and we hit 122
this week
thank you but fortunately for us next
week the cost to travel over to Xanadu
is only 120 likes do you think we can do
it we did it this time we will be able
to do it again please give us a thumbs
up if you want to see me visit Xanadu
and all of the fun stuff that we're
going to do over there put a few people
who gave us a thumbs down ah peters it's
good to see that only three of your
haters so that's as good as I always say
it's good ratio you know most of you are
are are lovers not fighters but there
are a few of you don't belong I'm sorry
sir all right well let's get on with it
we are on TP as domes let's bring up our
HUD I have nothing nothing it's a
probably good way to explore who knows
what's up here what we block me in my
own dome looks like a chance
[Music]
what red x 3 nice a mushroom steak what
is that come on now mushroom steak if I
wanted to state I would make it out of
beef that's just me I understand there
are those of you who would prefer a
mushroom mistake and not one of them but
hey somebody left me some prezzies thank
you and I just accidentally ate all
three of my bread even though I was not
even hungry hmm it's so typical of me
and that is why bald nerd has a couple
of extra pounds on and I I could stand
to lose a few ok so I've got all of this
magical stuff I got some chicken I got
some some mushroom steak and can I take
the test we could I got me a free chest
I'll put it down here alright so what do
we got I need a pick axe that one looks
like it's on its last leg but it'll do
and to whoever it was that gifted me
those wonderful trees thank you very
very
let's see here I'm going to throw that
meet up in that I'm going to throw my
mushroom steak up in there now I got
your message 10 plus 1 and apparently if
I oh yeah look at that oh you know how
I'm always like Oh noob I'm so new I got
drag-and-drop drag-and-drop what is this
windows 95 no I can just holding the
shift key and just click click clickety
clickety click I want to do that just
because it's fun look at me go ah yeah
so remember that trick holding your
shift key and then you will be able to
just click and it will go into your
inventory or vice versa nice I have no
idea what that thing is up on my screen
uh what did I push what did I push no
clog no chat no at what's happened done
oh that was it f6 is my profiler and the
new strikes again let's go my man what
are we up to this week well last week we
learn to protect but this week we are
going to do some traveling we want to
see what is out there in the great
beyond of GPS domes so today this week
is our exploratory episode and we have a
new tool that the pixel shadow has
granted unto us in order to make it just
ever so slightly easier and that is my
friends waypoints thank you pixel shadow
let's let's see how this works okay I'm
going to get down here how about we add
a waypoint to the entrance of my home
here we go ok so i press I for inventory
click on waypoints click on number one
and set Waypoint to current location
boom done turn it on or off obviously we
want it phone XYZ is enabled display of
the way point coordinates yeah baby what
else we got change color of waypoint
display I like blue but what can we do
yellow
red green blue all right let's leave a
blue then we can edit the Waypoint name
we're going to call this Mac home and
save all right so if all went well I can
exit out now I put the time running
around running around like a wild thing
and I look at my home see that don't
really stand out very well with us too
does it my home so how does that help me
well let's go to this home and now some
way over here I can find where my home
is in comparison it's over there so
that's my home dome my home dome is over
there now I can see that so it gives us
a way to kind of map out where we've
been where we're going and and take it
from there oh cool somebody not me has
taken our trick and it seems protected
have you protected this dome did
somebody protect the dome that I already
claimed as my second home my home away
from home looks like they had started to
but they never actually completed the
process okay so I've got my sword it's a
stone sword I would love to have some
kind of a better kind of thing now
quickly off the top you see how somebody
has started to work on area protection
based on what we learned on episode 21
okay so that's cool do you remember when
I tried to get into the corner and I
tried to glitch well it turns out i
found out that mine tests the developers
of mine test in fact touched up some
bugs oh my neck is stuck again there we
go it keeps happening I do need to see
that chiropractor and see if I can get
that pics here's the thing the the folks
who create the mine test game it's not
us they change some things in order to
stop people from glitchin so there's
been an uproar in the mind test
community as people who don't like that
fact start to get upset about the things
that have been
fixed for example where sometimes you
know some of us are losing the
capability to jump up two blocks do you
think I can take us oh I don't know I've
only got a stone sword is it worth
trying I want to be stronger before I
get to that point now I think somebody's
going to go and take my second dome
that's fine let's go home because I want
to kind of treat our travels today as
being you know from where we are going
to like I won't be able to see where
they are in relation to where we wear
our home is so I see a lot of folks over
there hi everyone nice to see ya hi um
if anyone wants to play with me anyone
want to play that's cool otherwise what
I'm going to do I'm going to start
traveling toward them and we want to see
are there any kind of cool domes on our
way so along our travels what are we
going to find so let's head kind of
toward where mangafox 70 is planned and
I see a couple of different names over
there it's hard to make out because
everybody seems to be over in kind of
the same area looks like blackout is
there as well so here in my world I'm
down in the lowlands now I see some
mushrooms are growing and lots of stuff
going on nice little biome here okay I
don't really know what we're going to
encounter I've got a stone pickaxe but
it's looking kind of me I think I may
have to make a wooden one and craft a
new stone pickaxe at some point I don't
want to take you know because we're
doing a little bit of a quest today I
don't want to take my dime and pickaxe
because I don't want to lose it way out
here who knows what we're going to
encounter not are so we'll leave that
one behind what is this work with some
simple and cheap rules I've got full
health I got full hunger not for long if
I encounter that dude and we're just
gonna I don't think a stone sword is
going to take him out so let's listen to
me please just tell me anything don't
mind me mr. over
hmm good thing I can outrun an ogre I'm
assuming that what he is he looks like a
Shrek like character this tree cannon
eat growing up like that explore there's
so much to do on TPS domes I keep
pushing the wrong button because i'm a
noob there's so much to do here so
you'll find that from episode to episode
i'm just kind of learning the ropes and
finding my way around but one of the
things that i want to do is I want to
find more interesting by own I want to
find things places where i can grab some
really great loot for when i start
building I want to start crafting some
armor because I do want to be able to
protect myself I feel like I'm a bit of
a worse when it comes to somebody
attacking me that guys are both getting
thank you goes because I feel like I
can't even take them on I do need to
grab some armor let's see if we can
figure out how to end it i don't think
i'm going to make it out of sand so this
this biome is kind of useless to me you
are dead to me by oh but I do wonder you
know what is beneath all this there
could be caves there could be some
really interesting or that I could use
for building and but I'm probably not
gonna find too much other than stone
here when it comes to what I could make
are more out of he makes don't armor no
i don't i don't know if you can I can
make wood armor for sure and then I've
seen various other kinds of armor like
I've seen like bronze armor I think and
Tim armor but not so much necessarily on
this server I got to try to keep an eye
on you chat room just a little bit just
to see oh that's pretty just to see if
anyone is trying to get ahold of me
because I do not have a secondary chat
window or anything running this week
this is not
okay so what can I do here whoa this is
like ultra mushroom land Thank You the
backflip still exists call it a glitch
the suite which is what they call it and
I like it I'll feel sad when it's gone
okay i want to create a waypoint i'm
going to hit I and hit number two and
we're going to call this one they call
this mushroom land the land of the
mushrooms that's even better it sounds
poetic the land oh the mush room you
have to say it like that so when you say
it that is how you say it so if you
feature this world you need to say it
like that because you took or sometimes
come here I've seen a couple of other
youtubers that have been checking out
the pixel shadow and that's cool I think
they're okay with that as long as you're
not doing anything that's the contrary
to the rules of the server because that
would be unacceptable I'm not here feel
bathroom not the time know of holy cow
it's hard to get through the land of the
mushroom there are just so many of them
holy cow where's my exit are you exit I
kind of can you like do anything with
these like an exam tonight let me take
them let me give you anything with them
huge mushroom cap versus giant mushroom
cap what's the difference you may say I
feel like it's probably the hugeness of
it so one is huger than the other that
would be my assumption so now there are
two mushroom stems just sitting there
really nice okay let's go now you see my
way point the land of the mushroom more
mushroom is over here such an eerie area
now somebody was falling and falling and
falling here and couldn't figure out
what was going on I guess if that
happens you'll be thankful that you've
set home I don't know if there's a slash
spawn command on this server because the
spawn seems to be fairly dynamic like
when you die you don't go to one central
spawn it seems to be that you go to some
random dome so I don't know if that
command even works here makes sense what
it wasn't so SAT home I think that's
probably one of the first things you
should do even if you haven't found a
home yet it gives you somewhere to read
liked it to be able to teleport to
basically even though there is no
teleport capability but you can use the
tpr command as well like I could type /
tpr mangafox 70 because she's online
right now and there's more timer so that
would allow me to teleport to her if she
accepts it
great fan tastic I'm here and they are
there and this is a very strange world
can I do Marvin because it kind of looks
like Mars doesn't it looks like you're
strange world here hmm i don't know if
that was very good but hey i am not
going to be able to take one of those
dudes on there is no way in heck what do
we have so we're picking up all we
pickin up what I'm running on a desert
stone and default oh no that's what I'm
looking at that's not what I have that
desert sand and desert cobblestone ok
that's interesting I mean it's a little
different than the cobblestone I've been
using Oh desert sand falls just like
normal serum all right well I'm not
going to get too heavy into mining
unless there's something really really
worth my while there's some cactus here
maybe I'm going to grab that oh I can't
I need to craft some what you use may be
an act I need to craft something else I
need to wood to do that I doubt I could
make anything out of this little guy at
dry shrub what can I make out of that
sticks really I can make sticks out of a
dry shrub nice beat it with a stick
uh-huh doesn't work what can I use my
sword no I don't have any inventory so I
don't have anything that I could use to
crap at the craft of an act I i think
i'm going to have to find some wood I'd
better get some wood oh good
wow they're everywhere this place is
things r us the places of a pain do that
oh oh I thought that was the sunrise am
i safe what is this is he giddy on
nokia's oh are you kidding me 6 250
can't believe it nice clean
to my quest to survive and explore I
have found a nyan cat rainbow where are
my friend I haven't hasten it but I
don't see them alone on TBS dome it's
not I keep doing that is anyone here it
says mangafox 70 is on TPS creative
abandon our oh well we're still
exploring I'm gonna head what I miss
expecting is now West I could turn on my
mini map and see if I incorrect so I am
slow it doesn't even show me you can get
a static mini map that doesn't turn ah
it turns every time so how do I know
what direction I'm going I need like a
compass or something well I'm gonna head
left my left which spins every time I
move my head so I have no idea which
direction that means lots of different
options for the mini-map on f9 but none
of them seem to give me like a compass
ok so far we have found a 9 cat rainbow
in the dirt no less oh this looks neat
oh I could see building some Pharaohs
tombs up in this Wow ok this is kind of
different I mean it's a sand biome with
some water I think that if I could find
the resources to do so this would make a
beautiful spot for you I don't know what
farm lay some dirt down and some seed
and we've got water that is plentiful
and that reminds me I heard I heard what
I am robber
did how is it possible that just
exploring has led me to to nyan cat
rainbows I want to protect this place
and just leave this nyan cat in her
natural habitat because that is way too
cruel is that really all the dude I
picked up are you kidding me I think I'm
such a loser okay so I'm gonna go about
area hose 10 there's going to drive
folks nuts when they realize that this
is a protective nine cat rainbow can't
fly on this server so you're stuck doing
it this way past again to swim over here
and been sitting area posed to did i do
it again yes okay so let's see if that
works so checked bald nerds natural
denying the word gay it's protected to
me so now people can enjoy seeing it but
they can't take it so as I was saying or
as I was starting to say apparently you
can actually craft you can craft wooden
buckets in this in this strange land of
TPS domes okay i want to set up a
waypoint while i'm here so i want to get
some wood and i want to create a wooden
bucket so that i can get started with
farming on this van natural nyan cat if
i could type that would be good there we
go
and right so I've got a waypoint here
now natural nyan cat beautiful all right
so let's head to the left of my world
and let's see if I can find somewhere
that has some wood so that i can get a
wooden bucket crafted but i also wanted
well i'm going to just have to remember
that the nyan cat is kind of this world
but i want to start crafting building a
farm on and if i could get like a rubber
farm going or a cotton farm would be
great if i get a cotton farm going then
i would be able to open I'd be able to
start crafting things like bags and
anything else that requires cotton
string them things like that wow this is
perfect this is exactly what I needed
nice now what is this is this jungle
wood yes it is so I'm grabbing some
jungle wood from these trees here this
is a nice-looking by own sweet like look
at how plentiful the wood is here you're
not going to have any trouble now I am
kind of getting a little bit nervous
with this nyan cat in my pocket I want
to get this home but it's been a bit of
travel to get here so now that I know
that that one dome with all the
mushrooms and everything is all my food
dome basically that someone was trying
to start to protect that dome is so
close to my home dome it's like one dome
over I don't necessarily need to keep
that one in my inventory home if you
will so I think I'm a set o Fox I'm a
said this as my second home so that I
don't have to do that travel again but
let's see okay so I'm gonna I'm gonna
get started with this wood and let's see
what I can craft I'm really really
interested in starting up getting some
kind of automation going via to farm
some type of a machine there are basic
machines here that I've yet to
experience but I've heard it's true so
okay let's get a look so if I take these
oh maybe i'll use my crafting guide
let's see so if I I guess you just type
down in the bottom search here so what
I'm looking for is a bucket so I won't
be able to transport some of that water
to my home world so we've got a empty
bucket and we've got a wooden bucket so
wooden bucket takes three planks and in
that formation so let's see if I have
what it takes to do that so there I have
four planks whoa way more than four
planks beautiful 56 planks okay boom
boom boom I've got myself a wooden
bucket now I've never done this before
but I assume with my empty wooden bucket
I'm going to be able to now stock up on
some water and take that home with me so
let's set this as my new home away from
home if you want there we go so now I
can jump between my real home and this
place just to help me to travel a little
bit faster so don't have to take the
crack okay now we're heading over to the
natural nine cat let's grab our bucket
and let's see how we do this there's got
to be a trick alright here's some water
yes I've got a water wooden bucket nice
so now what can I do with that can I
place I can sway alright so now I've got
the ability to place water in my world
in my home sweet we've got this really
nice biome to start working on a farm
whatever else I want to do okay I'm
gonna head home here we go I'm back
welcome welcome me home and let's head
over here and get started on our shrine
to today alright I'm going to need to
start cutting into this wall here I
don't know how far we're going to be
able to go before we run out of space
eventually we're going to start hitting
like the mind system oh and it looks
like we've got some dirt above us so I
maybe they going a little bit close to
the surface that's okay we can move
things around alright so for episode
number 22 what do you think
bucket is definitely something that
stands out to me but I don't think it's
something that we can place so we're
going to start with this desert
cobblestone because that's something
that is new to us something that we kind
of discovered today during our
exploratory quest there we go we've got
some desert sand which is also a part of
that and our nyan cat now nine cat is
special this week because we found not
just the one but we found 29 cat
rainbows and they were both easily
accessible so how do you like that
woohoo we did it uh we've done some
exploring we've found some really great
stuff I've got a place that has some
water and that now I can I can actually
pick it up using my wooden bucket as
well so we're learning we're becoming
better and better each and every week
thank you again to the viewer who placed
some gifts outside of my home really
really appreciate that and I also got
this extra chest which is now an
unlocked chest so i can start leaving
some things in that chest for our
viewers if they want to pop by and say
hi and pick up some stuff well that was
weird I love it when I know clip so
that's all yeah that's all I got for you
this week but I hope you have fun
remember i would love to pay a visit to
xanadu it cost me 120 likes to fly there
so if you give me a thumbs up at the
bottom of the video down there on
YouTube then I would greatly appreciate
that I know the folks over on Xanadu are
going to appreciate it as well it only
takes us 120 120 likes this week it's an
april special i guess at the airport so
that's gonna work out really really well
and i'm really looking forward to it so
thank you for joining me I didn't get to
see very many of my friends I saw your
names today but I hope that you have a
fantastic week so until next time I'm
bohnert you here at mine test dot TV
you
