you
it's Tuesday November 11 2014 and here
are the stories were covering this week
augmented reality for blind people could
help them get around without the help of
a guide dog thanks to a new technology
being tested by Microsoft Home Depot is
revealed that the hack attack earlier
this year leaked not just credit and
debit card information but also the
email addresses of their customers
police in Germany are clamping down on
movie and music piracy and have raided
over a hundred homes are you thinking
about buying that 3d TV this Christmas
season a French health watchdog is
warning of the impact of 3d technology
on developing eyes and President Obama
made a statement yesterday in support of
net neutrality and while my it might be
upsetting to Internet service providers
and large companies it will level the
playing field for the average user these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere this is the story of Operation
Christmas Child
it may just be a shoebox but 2 million
is the start of the greatest journey
traveling the world sent with prayer to
box gifts fill the hearts of children
from over 100 different countries with
hope faith and love I'm Sasha dramatis
and here are the top stories from the
category five dot TV news room for
millions of blind and visually impaired
people venturing out of the house can be
a dangerous and daunting task Microsoft
is aiming to change this with 3d audio
technology and a smart headset the
software giant is trialing in the UK
microsoft system works by creating a 3d
soundscape of audio that's transmitted
through your jawbone you wear a bone
conduction headset that pairs to a
smartphone that can pick up nearby
beacons and guide you around the bone
conduction here is key it means that you
can still hold conversations with people
or hear the environment around you
because you're not wearing headphones
that cover your ears which is crucial if
you're visually impaired and rely on
sound is a primary sense microsoft has
created a clever system of audio cues
for nearby stores points of interest and
journey details alongside regular GPS
instructions and unique audio ping that
keeps you straight on track when you're
navigating Microsoft's headset is
designed to tackle these challenges with
technology that won't cost eighty
thousand dollars which is the lifetime
price tag of a guide dog it won't
completely replace a guide dog or a
white cane but it might just lower the
cost and complexity of navigating cities
if you're visually impaired ninety
percent of the world's visually impaired
live in low-income settings according to
the world health organization
inexpensive technology is badly needed
and Microsoft recognizes that a simple
headset could be the answer
the headset is calibrated by first
scanning your entire face and head with
Kinect producing a map for the system to
improve the accuracy of the headset and
tailor it to your own dimensions it's
all driven using gestures from a
smartphone app that plays back audio
menu straight into your ears you simply
tap and hold and slide or drag around to
navigate with each move accompanied by a
subtle vibration from the headset of the
handset and the menu item read back to
you if you're on a train or a bus it
will tell you when you're about to reach
a station or stop using GPS or nearby
beacons but it's blindly walking around
environments where it's especially
impressive the real magic of this system
is the 3d audio technology that gives
you a real sense of direction one
feature on the head on the headset
allows you to push a button and hear a
list of nearby places of interest
they're processed through the headset
depending on the direction you're facing
so that when a store is read aloud
you'll be able to hear the direction of
where it's located that might be in the
rear left you're out in front but the
audio gives you a clear sense of where
that store is along a route through just
sound alone we've received no word yet
on the release date or the cost of the
peripheral but the prototype is quite
impressive that sounds really cool you
made an interesting point though Sasha
before before we went on the air tonight
yeah if I was that visually impaired and
and perhaps if there is anyone listening
tonight who is visually impaired to the
point of not being able to see and
needing a peripheral such as this my
point is my point is well if you have a
smartphone that you need to click and
drag and swipe to calibrate the system
yeah and you can't see your smartphone
how are you gonna have a properly
calibrated system that's an interesting
point for sure it's cool how technology
especially something like Kinect which
was as far as I knew at the time as far
as we knew developed for for gaming
mm-hmm it has a replacement kind of a
competitor for Wii with the wiimotes now
Microsoft
comes along and says no we don't need to
have a remote we'll use just your hand
gestures in your body in a 3d space so
being able to use that in order to
create this 3d basically immersive
environment it's almost it is like
augmented reality for audio perception
as opposed to visual perception I love
the idea I really hope they can make it
work agreed us retail giant Home Depot
says hackers who stole payment card
details of millions of customers also
stole 53 million email addresses it said
hackers access its network with a
vendor's username and password between
April and September a vendor's a vendor
that so that means that the vendor has
access to emails and credit cards and
debit cards the company had previously
revealed that 56 million debit and
credit card details were also stolen in
the hack analysts say it's one of the
largest data breaches on record
surpassing a similar incident at
retailer target home depot insisted on
Thursday that the file containing the
email addresses did not contain
passwords or other sensitive personal
information although did contain credit
card numbers and debit but it warned
customers to be on guard against further
phishing scams that might trick them
into sharing personal information so
just be warned don't overshare at home
depot now more than 400 police officers
in Germany have taken part in a
nationwide clamp down against piracy
colognes public prosecutor has announced
they searched 121 apartments across 14
states in the hunt for people sharing
music and films illegally online
officials targeted members of a
file-sharing forum called bourse who the
prosecutor says have uploaded movies
music software and ebooks the German
police said some of the suspects in the
latest raid were willing to cooperate
they added the investigating authorities
are hoping to gain further in
site since the piracy seen on the
evaluation of this evidence so pirate
errs beware that's frightening for sure
mm-hmm now a French health watchdog has
recommended that children under the age
of six should not be allowed access to
3d contents the agency for food
environmental and occupational health
and safety and sees added that access to
those up to the age of 13 should be
moderate it follows research into the
possible impact of 3d imaging on still
developing eyes few countries currently
have guidelines about 3d usage according
to an sees the process of assimilating a
three-dimensional effect requires the
eyes to look at images in two different
places at the same time before the brain
translates it to one image they said in
a statement and children and
particularly before the age of six the
health effects of this vergence
accommodation conflict could give much
more could be much more severe given the
active development of the visual system
at this time I would say that the
children that the movies are geared to
are probably between the ages of 4 and
13 interestingness 3d movies or Disney
and Pixar and for young children so what
are you do in a case like that I mean
everybody's looking at their their
Christmas list and thinking okay this is
something that maybe we've been saving
up toward maybe the old TV is done and
do we go with 4k do we go with 3d what
do you do and then to have someone show
up and say hey it's not good for kids
and we've been hearing it for some time
I think that that whole you know the
development of the visual cortex and the
eyes and it's not good to have 3d the
faux synthetic 3d anyways during that
time mm-hmm I don't know I have a 3d TV
and I know that there are only
particular times in the day if I'm too
tired I'll get a headache so I can't
imagine that on it
vision of small children tend to agree
President Barack Obama wants to
reclassify the internet as a utility he
said in a new statement released by the
White House yesterday that would allow
the Federal Communications Committee to
enforce heavier restrictions on it and
protect net neutrality the president
said the time has come for the FCC to
recognize the broadband services of the
same importance and must carry the same
obligations as so many of the other
vital services do Obama is officially
supporting net neutrality writing that
Internet service provider should not be
allowed to control or pick winners and
losers in the online marketplace in his
statement President Obama outlined rules
for internets where ISPs could not block
legal content throttle services or offer
paid prioritization of service way to go
Obama that sounds like that is good I
mean it sounds good right absolutely I'm
a big fan for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias visit the category 5
TV news room at newsroom category 5 TV
for the category 5 TV news room I'm
Sasha drew Matus
