this one over here is about to get
married it's true okay so here's the
thing now Dave knows a little bit about
this because well I had to tell him a
little because if I didn't he'd probably
buy his own computer but okay we're
getting married and we're getting
married in 2/3 a month so combined
between his birthday in the wedding I
want to get him a nice gift now the
computer at our house is older than the
Sun I don't even know how old it is it's
old and it has been failing of leads and
he keeps talking about wanting to buy a
new one and I thought to myself since I
have such an interest in learning more
that perhaps I could build him a
computer as a gift like a wedding flash
birthday gift building a computer here
on the show gets your help get your help
and and really like get them the best
and also know what I'm doing the project
like learn I want I want it to be what
an opportunity to teach right as well so
those of you who have never done such a
thing I want it to be magnificent but I
also want it to be something I can do
okay so one first of all I'm thinking we
should totally also build a piece of
garbage that you could give him as a
joke like it get like an old like ps2 or
something and be like you know like
Windows 3.1 on it oh my goodness like
present maybe maybe not
probably not that would be hilarious it
would be super super funny to somebody
else
we want you to be able to pitch in your
advice so get your questions in the chat
room we're watching the chat room to see
what what questions you have for mrs.
Rickman over here yes tell me
so Toby Rickman first of all boils down
to what's the budget well here's here's
the honest truth I don't know much about
this so yeah I don't know where it is
what and this is part of the this is
part of the fear factor when you don't
know about building your own computer
don't know what you're really getting
yourself into
so the budget
is whatever I need to spend to get a
really good daily computer with a little
bit of wow factor but not like you know
we want to woo him it's going to be
beautiful funny impressive
I want it yeah I want it to be a source
of pride and I want it to be easy to use
and I want it to have some cool like
you're edgy things I know what you mean
because whenever we have guests in the
studio yeah people look at our
thermaltake snow edition and they go wow
I want that yeah that's what I want what
is that and you know I open the door and
show them the giant yeah and you know
that's that's what that's what it is
so LEDs are a thing now that's a cheap
way to really spice things up yeah so
what I would start with Sasha is I would
I would get on two websites that sell
pre manufactured computers and that is
to get an idea for what is the
approximate cost that you'd be paying
for a gaming system so for example I
would go over to our website category
five dot TV and on our website we have
partners and our partners allow you to
support the show by shopping with our
partners so I click on shop with our
partners there's one on here called
Newegg and the only reason I'm going to
go there I don't want a shot there
Amazon is much better to us but it gives
us a chance to go computer systems
gaming desktops I presume Dave is going
to want a game on this thing yeah all
right yeah so let's just say that that's
the case okay so let's let's just jump
over here and say okay well what what
are currently the best sellers on on
here and get a sense for okay well what
are people really what are people buying
right now and I can see that okay well
these are you know man
man no those are I don't want one of
those those are not very I will say I
mean because the chat room has asked
about size requirement yeah I will say
that the computer we use now it is very
big and if you know I mean it's not
horrible it's a date built it a long
time ago but it is
in a nice spot beside our TV because we
use the TV as the monitor right right
and so it can be a nice big full tower
because it's going to be a little bit of
the display salad right people are going
to see it and I want it to look good so
it can be big okay alright so I'm
looking at the Republic of gamers ROG
systems from Asus and that gives us an
idea you know kind of what's submission
this one has like a gtx 1070 with eight
gigs of graphics it's got an i7 7700
it's got 256 gig SSD so things we need
to think about is hard drive so this
just gives us an idea so this is a
pretty decent little system for 2,100
bucks and that's Canadian so that's like
four dollars u.s. so you look at that
you think okay well 2,100 bucks is that
reasonable is that kind of where we're
aiming for is that too high too low and
then we take that as our target right
because that's and because then we can
say okay well what did that system have
that we could reuse in our shopping
because we're going to build it
ourselves right no can we save money can
we get a better bang for the buck by
building it ourselves what are the
advantages to doing it ourselves so
first of all what is well not first of
all it asks a couple questions already
but what are the the main uses for this
system
yeah media center and means Ron Cody on
it he'll be free yeah for sure I want to
install Kodi on it so then we say what's
your TV big it 60-inch is it 4k yes okay
that's going to take some power right
before Kay is going to require a 4k HDMI
output on any computer so instantly
we've taken that price and we said okay
now that's up a little bit on the
graphics and because 1080p is just not
going to cut it for you right and you
also need enough processor power to be
able to handle 4k video right I also
want good USB ports only because I know
I'm good I found accessible yeah
fastening sites well I want them to be
on the front of the tower okay and I
want them to be whatever is better than
what he has now because you have to be
able to put stuff on top of the tower
can it be like a rounded bezel it could
be ports on the top it can be rounded
yes okay all right because that's pretty
common for kind of sleek and natural
looking so okay so so far we know she
needs to have a 4k video output over
HDMI I would presume is a good connector
yeah for your TV we're going to need to
have I would say with that you're going
to need at least 16 gigs of RAM would
probably be advisable he's going to be
doing anything on there at 4k resolution
do you think he's ever going to want to
do like VR stuff because if you're
getting into a high-end system you're
not something that you could just add
the the goggles for right is it a huge
thing to add it in it probably would be
cool to have it do you know like if you
were to throw a VR headset on there not
it has to be a part of it ya know as
soon as you get into VR that's when
things get a little bit more complicated
you need I know with like the video I
think it starts at like a newer series
like the GTX like 10 60s or even like
the 900 series oh um so what that is
it's the video cards like the graphics
card right so if he is doing gaming
things like that and the new like the
video like again that's the car that I
have um the newer ones the 10 series
newest cards I have the cheapest one
which is the 10 60 and it works
perfectly fine for me like I do all my
video editing all my gaming everything
there oh and like it's like the cheapest
of the new versions that you really need
right now interesting fact is that you
can always upgrade your video card too
so if you build the computer with even a
10 60 or 1080 card then you could then
later remove that hmm pawn it off and
buy a better card right so you that's
that's always an option to that's one of
the nice things about building it
yourself is you've got that room to
expand grow and I'll know how to be you
know replacing things and taking things
apart and putting them back together
right now for me it's just like it's so
daunting to think about I would never
open his computer right now and try and
swap things it does a PI so this is a
big step
yeah hard drive space is he going to be
storing the videos on the computer or we
do what we do have an external hard
drive that we use often to take things
his computer because it maxes out okay
um it's not a USB drive external yes
because that could be fairly slow yeah
starts when you start yes so having
better storage in the computer would be
great so I would suggest probably an SSD
for the operating system and a
supplemental storage drive or even if
you have the budget for it two drives
that would be in what's called a raid
one that would be for your data so that
if it's say a 2 4 terabyte drives you
you wouldn't have a terabytes you'd only
have 4 terabytes but if one fails you
don't lose any of the files right you
have that redundancy like a server so
then you don't lose and have to react
you late all your videos and things like
that that's why I'm going to consider ok
ok so think about that folks at home
your home yes we should know about is
that you know things that specifically
you want to be able to do with the
system there's I mean as much like it's
mostly just day-to-day stuff right like
we're not super like like we're not
super programmers great a day so
basically high-end awesome exactly that
it's gotta be sexy as anything agents
right week yeah it's a gift like if it
needs to be cool low maintenance low
maintenance so I'm thinking you know I
would I would lean toward water cooling
but if you ever maybe a self-contained
water cooler that doesn't require
refilling ok that would be alright if we
can find one that's sleek and looks nice
and works within chassis otherwise
you're looking at a CPU fan which is
fine but it generates a little more
noise and it's not quite as efficient as
far as cooling goes so water cooling
would be water cooling might be new
although with something too
self-contained also that we don't have
to refill it ok and then I'm excited to
introduce some more to Linux right so
then I was like I want it to be not like
I want the desktop environment and I
realized that we've been looking at that
a lot I want it to be not completely
like out there different from Borum
Florent but I don't want it to be too
similar either right like I want it to
be
intuitive but obviously a bit different
so that when he's bringing if he brings
his computer
yeah what do you mean but he shows
people and it's a really good window
into people what would it be into
showing off what happens on the display
like if we were to make it from a now
this is operating system so we're going
Linux so you probably want to avoid any
kind of BIOS features that are going to
have trouble with Linux if we have
things like cool 3d effects and things
in the environment so that you know he
can do you want a touchscreen do you
want to be able to connect things them
not a touchscreen okay because the
screen we use is our computer or our TV
oh you use the TV any TV is the screen
always okay yeah cool all right
more case crazy yes yeah yeah all right
cool
keyboard mouse we should get something
that matches make it one okay so
anything else you can think of and
obviously wireless keyboard mouse any
question Wireless okay yeah that's a
good idea but it's got to be frank the
awesome it's got to hold a charge yeah
chatroom if you had any suggestions or
anything yeah Bob 54 thing yeah let's
get to get some barrel 3d on there may
be some confusion we're gonna get the
wobbly windows and throw the cube on
there for you cool it's not that that'll
be cool anything else just looking at
the chat room right now
real quick have you seen anything there
folks
all right so viewers at home comment
below if you're on youtube comment there
if you're on our website category 5 TV
please comment below and also we have a
thread over at forum dot category-five
dot TV and you'll see in the category 5
technology TV forum post for sashes
computer built so any suggestions that
you have please post them there I
presume like shopping on Amazon is an
option and things like that yes now I
mean shopping on Amazon is great because
I a I can use the links and be I have
Amazon Prime so I get we shipping for
many things
but getting it to not my house is the
thing too because they can't get shipped
to my house okay we can get it to our
category-five address beautiful yeah
just choose when you order where do you
want to ship it to so yeah the only
thing Dave really knows right now is
he's just not allowed to watch the show
between now and the wedding and not
allowed to buy a new computer which
means he probably knows he's getting a
computer okay right but he doesn't know
until what scope in any way and he
doesn't know why I'm building it or else
he'd probably have an anxiety attack
oh just from the chat room Linden does
you know it concur with me that a RAID
one would be a good idea for the data
okay you know I have know the image
voice of category 5 technology TV Jodi
Crangle she has a computer with multiple
hard drives just for that reason and one
of the hard drives she mentioned was
having some trouble and it's beautiful
that she's not at risk of losing her
data exactly because it's on two hard
drives at once okay pull out one you pop
in another and too bad so sad you know
you lost the cost of you know you got to
pay a couple hundred bucks for another
drive but and we see them lose your
stuff right perfect there you go sweet
there we are
alright so get your posts in get your
recommendations in over the course of
the next few weeks we're going to be
well the next two weeks we're going to
be looking at the components themselves
assembling these for you so that we have
kind of a shopping list if you will and
then I guess you'll just go shopping yes
we're going to get going on the the
builds themselves so make sure you're
here make sure you participate in that
and we look forward to hearing from you
if you don't want to communicate by
commenting and things like that head on
over to our website category five dot TV
and you'll see the contact us and you
can simply send us an email for the live
show thank you so much in advance for
your help the thing I cannot do myself I
can see this being on the forums and
just going pages after pages yeah
I know coming a 40 of 40 video series
I'm going to say we're going to we're
going to opt for Nvidia and we're going
to opt for Intel processors a new line 9
go with the best of the bestest every
time so there we have folks
[Music]
you
