hey you know what time it is what it's
time for new every day
you've got mad skills now hone them
learn new skills or improve your
existing ones with online video
tutorials and training from Linda calm
through our special link at cat five dot
TV / Linda learn software technology
creative and business skills you can use
today to help you achieve your
professional goals join today and start
learning will give you this chance to
try it absolutely free with unlimited
access to all of the courses sign up now
for free cat five dot TV / Linda welcome
back gen us a very good question on
today's show what does it actually mean
to be a Fisher of men so the past two
episodes we've talked about Matthew 4
verse 19 where Jesus says to his first
disciples come follow me and I will make
you fishers of men and he was speaking
to fishermen yeah so what does it
actually mean to be a Fisher of men I
think it's just really interesting that
he used that verse Jen because it was a
context that they could understand so
they were used to fishing for fish and
he says no I want you to fish for men so
how do you take that first well for the
longest time as I said you'll have to go
back a few shows and watch watch them in
order but I said for the longest time I
went I don't know how to I don't know
how to fish for people that's just
really scary I can't even fish for fish
yes Oh mind you first time I ever went
fishing caught 17 min notes no sunfish
yes and that's great and the guy that I
was with I caught way more than he did
ok I think those beginner's luck but
anyways um the thing is I learned I knew
that you needed to put bait on a hook
yep and I knew you needed to drop the
hook in the line in in the water in
order to actually catch fish yeah but
all I ever caught was sunfish and maybe
two very small bass so I knew how to do
that
um but I see some of my friends and they
catch these like humongous fish and like
how do they do that okay oh and I'm like
and here i go i put my fish on the hook
and loop and blue and there I am waiting
and what do I catch some fish so when
you ask the question what does it mean
to fish for men for the longest time I
first of all was scared of that verse
and I just thought I don't know how to
do that mm-hmm I don't actually know how
to fish for men mm-hmm and that was one
of the reasons why we've chosen to walk
through this passage before just diving
into this last part of what does it mean
to be a Fisher of men because we needed
to examine first what does who extends
the invitation it's Jesus who extends
right the invitation so if Jesus extends
it to us that means he's genuinely
wanting us to come and secondly that he
genuinely believes that we can do it and
then that second part is i'm actually
going to have to give up where it
counting the cost i'm going to have to
give up something to follow Christ so
not only does he call me and believes
that I can do it I'm going to have to
give up something in order to do it
right so here we get to that last part
of the verse and I will make you fishers
of men so the thing is we can do it
because of who calls us and what we give
up we can genuinely fish for men but how
I guess is the question that I come
around to now as well how do I actually
fish Berlin I guess when you talk about
real fisherman so the fisherman then I
know mm-hmm because I also cannot fish
or I haven't really tried they go to
where the fish are so if they want to
fish for trout you're going to go to a
particular River I think truck lemon
I don't know I don't know its water this
is C we don't know but if you want to
fish for muskie you're going to go up to
like like scugog right so it's totally
different environments and that makes me
think of my friend actually who he well
let's talk about Jared and Leah okay so
we have mutual friends Jared and Liam
ortley and they actually work for
InterVarsity Christian Fellowship right
so they are right now they work in the
Toronto area and they go into high
school so they go to a particular group
of individuals they make connections
there they start bible studies and then
they introduce people to christ that way
barging through relationships for
teaching them scripture yes and actually
they sent out an update talking about
being a Fisher of matinee Jen well they
did and that's what made this really
cool today as we were talking about what
do we want to talk about and then I got
this update and I'm like here you've got
to read this and it says that the title
of their letter actually says fish for
people mm-hmm and it says hundreds of
students roamed the halls daily and we
were able to catch some of them on their
way by each of the schools we work at
had 15 to 20 new people signed up at
clubs day who are interested in joining
the christian fellowship group central
tech which is a school in toronto has
decided to call their group the net
based on the passage for Jesus calls
James Peter and John to follow him and
fish for people fishing isn't always
easy it might be the wrong time or a bad
day and you might not know when to pack
up and go home things were especially
difficult today the teachers sponsor at
central tech was sick and leaders of the
group were busy doing lunch or do during
lunch so Leah had left by herself unsure
it was left by herself unsure of what to
do there happened to be one student
hanging out after class who was
interested but hesitant to do a bible
study because she was Muslim Leah
invited her to take a look at the life
of Jesus and started a Bible study with
her and she even said yes to coming back
next week on her way out of the
school Leah saw Jenny who was late for
the club she was disappointed the
meeting was cancelled especially since
she was feeling sick and would have
stayed home this opening gave Leah an
opportunity to talk to her and take her
for lunch and learn more about her life
and pray for her the blessing was
returned when this young girl offered
and prayed for Leah god works in
surprising ways and has plans for people
we couldn't even have imagined you know
that story that update from Jared and
Leah they went to a particular group
right they felt God drawing them into
ministry in particular with youth so
they went to that area they got you
gotta go where the fish are yeah sure
people don't believe yes and you know
they don't get caught up in the details
because Leah just showed up made herself
available I know that she has a
relationship with God that she asks him
for guidance and seeks him and then see
he opened up those opportunities for her
yeah just by being there yes and when we
talk about bait and that sounds bad
because you're not trying to win an
individual just to have them join the
club right or to say oh yes I've saved
this many souls or I've drawn as many
people to the church that's not what
it's about but in talking about using
bait hmm I think one of the greatest
attractions to Christianity is actually
a transformed life by the love of Christ
right and I know in my family when my my
mom and I came to Christ first and i
shared a little bit about this my mom
and I came to Christ first and then my
dad and my brother after that and now my
little brother too so yay God but it was
the transformed life of my mother
because she she shared the gospel with
my dad and he was like yeah that's nice
that's good for you but it's not for me
but it was her life and the way that she
then treated her mother-in-law whom they
had been at odds with right sorry they
had been at odds with each other it was
the love of Christ in her that equipped
her to love my
my grandmother and my dad saw that and
that was kind of the first time that he
thought there's really something to this
gospel because I see the impact on her
life and he's changing her for the
better mm-hmm so I think that's a bait
if you will 10 right it's one you have
to go to where the people are are so if
you feel that God is calling you to a
certain group of people then you have to
be where they are secondly what you know
then what is it that makes well the
Gospels attractive because of who Jesus
is mm-hmm but if you have never tried
chocolate cake you don't know what it
tastes like and it just sits there on
the counter and if you've never had that
experience and you have no idea like
nobody's actually told you yeah you just
don't know you just don't know like you
actually need someone to try it so what
is the bait well debate is then Kari
saying Jen I've had this before you know
it's really good you're really gonna
like right and then I taste I'm like oh
because I trust Carrie but she went out
of her way to build a relationship with
me and so I trust her so then I'm more
app to actually listen to what she has
to say because I've seen the fruit of it
and her in her life just like your mom
started loving your grandma and as a
result your dad saw that I was
transformed like we we need to first of
all I think you're right the bait is a
changed life yes and but we're not we're
not drawing someone in not just to Life
Enhancement right no come and have it
come and have a better life try this
chocolate cake it's going to be better
than any kinky ever tried right you know
that's not what we're calling people to
because that's not what Jesus was
calling them to he's had come and I will
make you fishers of men he said you're
you're joining a kingdom come pick up
your cross and follow me start loving
other people yeah and they saw the
disciples followed him and they saw the
life that he lived so I think that can
sometimes be a bit of a stumbling block
for Christians especially trying to
evangelize other people and it's a
common you're going to have you're going
to have peace you're going to enjoy your
going to patients you're going to love
he's going to restore your
relationships and yes God does that but
that's the outworking of the Holy Spirit
in our lives yes and as we love him and
follow him and daily having a
relationship with him realizing who we
are in christ and realizing who jesus is
as the Lord yeah those things are a
natural at working the fruit of the
Spirit is love joy peace patience
kindness but that's not a Jew legitimate
drawcard Christianity although I feel
that God does use that like he did use
in my mom's life right to bring dad
early soften his heart towards who Jesus
was because when you look at the fruits
of the spirit mm-hmm those are
attributes of Christ so we're becoming
Christians or little Christ's yeah then
we should be exemplifying we should be
we should be manifesting those things
that that Christ did those his
characteristics right yeah mm-hmm and so
because ultimately we want people to be
in relationship yeah but Jesus oh we
well that's what Jesus wants yeah well
he genuinely wants to be in relationship
with people and part of well our jobs
not part of our job our job is to tell
people about the relationship we have
with Jesus and so it's like okay well
how do we do that and so that's why it
says making me I will make you fishers
of men I will teach you how to share
love with people I will teach you about
patience and waiting because as I was
talking with one of my friends last
night about what does it mean to be a
fisherman he said well first of all you
have to know what kind of fish are going
for right and I'm like okay so we've
talked about that kind of fish are we
going for youth and sometimes it's your
family as in your mom's case it was her
family if you have people around you in
your immediate family who do not know
Jesus that's what you're trying to catch
for lack of a better word that's who you
immediately have to witness to your kids
your husband your wife your parents your
siblings those are first and foremost I
want to say in your pool
hair there in your pool so your job than
to say okay Lord you've put these people
in my life I love them and you love them
even more so could you help me be you
know help me love them well help me tell
them about who you are and may you be so
alive in me that it just oozes out of
Who I am because your family's going to
know you best they're going to know if
it's the real thing and and we've talked
about this a few times and help me not
be a spiritual snow d pants don't be a
spiritual snooty pants because Nick turn
it is and especially in your own family
um yeah they don't want to hear again
and again well you know if you'd only
serve Jesus and this wouldn't happen if
you'd pray about it or if you read your
Bible or if you just come like with that
attitude they're going to be like
there's no way I want that and that's
part of knowing like knowing how to bait
the hook right like are you baiting it
with poison and rules and regulations or
are you genuinely baiting it with love
and kindness and compassion or does your
family constantly feel like you are if
they come near to you that it will feel
like sandpaper like you're rubbing
against them making them raw rather than
drawing them in and I even caught myself
this week being a spiritual snooty pants
tours my cousin and he said you know
when I read this book I really think
this I was like really because when I
read it I think that's not I caught
myself yeah cuz he's really smart and I
wanted to be smart I wanted to see
sometimes but I'm like well I'll just
you know show him what I know but I was
being a spiritual snooty pants I'm like
I was not baiting the hook and love I
was beating it in Pride and you know um
selfishness and I wasn't trying to build
him up I was trying to prove how
important i was and how much I knew like
that is not baiting the hook so that's
one of the things is how do you actually
bait the hook and it has to be baited in
love and love
and yeah and a true desire for that
person to encounter the Living God yes
yes so who's in your pool right so um
you know at school if if you're a young
person you're attending school then
they're in your pool so how do you share
the love of Christ with those people
that you sit beside ya at school or you
sit on the bus or in your family they're
a part of your pool if you if you go to
you know if you have a job outside of
your home then your coworkers are part
of your pool and this past Sunday I was
talking about the book of Nehemiah which
will probably get to around in some some
Christmas Christmas and I said well you
know near my Nehemiah had the dedication
service on top of the wall so they could
declare to the world how faithful God
was so we're actually called to declare
to the world who have faithful God is
and that includes the people at work
like do you share with people at work in
a kind loving compassionate way about
what the difference got God is made in
your heart and a couple gentlemen after
service I said to me you know what
that's really hard oh they came up and
told you that yeah well we were having
is hot supper together and they just
said when you said that it really struck
me because in a secular environment
where Christianity is certainly not
welcome for the most part to share your
faith is can be quite scary and what
does this mean for your job and and and
then how do you actually do it and I
think that's part of the problem is we
actually don't know how to bait the hook
you don't know how to package it right
because we have in our mind those
preconceived ideas of like bible
thumping over the head you know repent
and be baptized or else you're going to
hell right and yet that's not what
Christ calls us to it calls us to love
them so how do we actually share the
good stuff that's happening the love of
Christ without i want to say dumbing
down the gospel right because it you
know like it's not about making it all
simple and easy but how do we actually
be
genuine followers of Christ to the
people that are in our pools so that
then provides an opportunity for the
Holy Spirit to move through and to
impact them like how are we doing ahead
and the hook that's a really good
question and I was just reading in
second Corinthians 5 here we go verse 19
to 20 and 21 and Paul is speaking here
and he says that is that God was in
Christ reconciling the world to himself
not imputing their trespasses to them
and has committed to us the word of
reconciliation so God was in Christ when
he was reconciling the world to himself
now then we are ambassadors for Christ
as though God were pleading through us
we implore you on Christ's behalf be
reconciled to God and he made him who
knew no sin to be sin for us that we
might become the righteousness of God so
we are now the righteousness of god and
I like that first because it says God
was in Christ and now Christ is in us
and we are there for ambassadors
imploring other people to be reconciled
to God and I think I feel like when
we're talking to other people what
generates conversation is born out of
relationship so if I'm not married I
cannot constantly talk about one who I
am in relationship with because it's
there is no relationship I can't
constantly talk about a marriage
relationship because I'm not married so
okay this is embarrassing but when I was
in my early no I was like late teens and
I was going into a Canadian Tire and
there was a woman was doing a survey and
trying to get people to sign on to have
a Canadian Tire credit card and then I
was I was like I just want to get in and
get out for whatever reason I liked her
she said I married a single and I was
like married I said married here so
stupid right ya dumb and then and then
she started asking more questions and I
have to like build on this oh yeah John
Kerry that's so bad why would I say that
I don't know I know
so that I had to build on that but I
couldn't talk about a relationship that
didn't exist right right case in point
anyways get rid of the credit card i
repented that was so crazy but I
couldn't talk about something that
wasn't real right so if you don't have a
real relationship Christ with Christ you
can't talk about it so if I'm not
spending time daily with him I can't
confidently talk about it yeah you know
yes if we are not spending time daily
with Christ then you're putting up a
hook into the water with nothing on it
mm-hmm because people are going to look
and say what difference is Christ making
your life like there's what why would I
want to latch on to that because there's
nothing there's nothing there for me
we're not talking about what we think is
a hook like the metal silver hook with
the little alley and you're like why
would anybody want to be latched on that
that's painful they're going to die
right but we're in the Christian life
the hook is actually eternal life in
christ its relationship with Jesus it's
something that you want when in essence
it says that you need to die to yourself
in order to receive the life that Christ
gives you so the eternal life really is
is the hook it's life with Christ but
the bait is what you put on the hook so
that people will come to to know about
life with Christ and what that means and
so often one of the things that we hear
about is oh well the you know Christians
are just a bunch of hypocrites they
gossip they hate each other they tear
down one another like why would I even
want to become a Christian when you know
they don't practice what they preach per
se and so going back to what what Kerry
said about relationship one of the key
things in order that we might be fishers
of men one of the key things we need to
do is make sure that we are spending
time with the Lord that we are allowing
him to transform and renew us so that
the old really is gone and the new
really does come because when people see
that when they see that kind of bait on
the hook where they go wow she loves
well or or wow he's generous or wow he
helps out all the time then you have an
opportunity to actually tell them about
while the hope of glory that you have
inside your yourself which is which is
Jesus and sometimes you know we do
stumble like I think I've been in the
book of Acts when Paul kind of calls out
Peter because Peter you know they're
talking about the inclusivity of grace
right Gentiles are non Jews and Jews
everyone is welcomed into this kingdom
of God and so Peter when some Jews came
to visit he got all scared and he
wouldn't eat with the Gentiles and so
Paul called him out on it he's like hey
that you don't be a hypocrite he's like
the Gospels for everybody Jesus died for
everybody essentially saying you know
what you're doing is wrong yeah but
Jesus like God didn't stop using Peter
just because they eat that one episode
of hypocrisy yeah he's still used um
yeah just just carry on God can you know
there's another person acts where there
was an early Christian name Apollo's and
Paul and Apollo's they're working
together and some people were like I
fall appalled or I follow Apollo's and
his teaching and Paul was like hey at
the end of the day I might plant a seed
Apollo's waters it but God causes the
increase yes and people your family your
friends might look at your life and you
might be just someone who waters the
seed that's been planted in someone's
life by the Word of God yes right
someone hears the gospel the word the
seed is planted and you might be someone
who just comes along the waters maybe
that's helping them move right hey that
person they were really kind they helped
me move or maybe that's giving them a
meal whatever that might be it's just
it's just pieces in the puzzle yeah god
uses right yeah so this week we
encourage you to take a look at your
bait I was in your pool who's in your
pool are you there with them and then to
look at your bait and then next week
we're going to talk about the actual act
catching a fish awesome okay have a
great week
thanks for tuning in to new every day go
to our website check out new everyday TV
we've got some awesome partners with us
click on our partners page Dollar Shave
Club you can get some awesome thank you
awesome razors for really cheap all
sorts of crazy things on there so go
check it out yeah you can watch older
episodes on our website as well if you
want to get caught up on those fishers
of men study yes so may the Lord bless
you and keep you may you sense his
presence around you guiding and
directing you and may you step into the
pool this week have a great week
you
