here the stories were covering this week
in the category 5 TV newsroom some
Windows 10 source code which could be
used to exploit the popular OS has been
leaked to the public the world's fastest
computers run Linux nASA has designed a
supersonic airplane that doesn't create
a sonic boom and as predicted Nintendo
is now releasing a classic Super
Nintendo console these stories are
coming right up
don't go anywhere Geoff Weston Gemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website what are you alright you're
terrible actor what this we're acting
comes into play I don't know where are
they
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website it's sure how much hard
drive space you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cap five dot
TV slash dream host for just five
dollars and a bit of change per month
you are going to get unlimited web site
hosting unlimited email accounts on that
hosting service you are also going to
receive a free domain name the roots are
your own com dice to put that amazing
website that you've been working on on
there if you run if you want to build a
wordpress site fine
sign up cat5 dot TV slash dream host
still flicks out of a paper summer just
don't do it but hey it's a great deal
folks best deal you're going to find
five dollars and change per month go to
cap five dot TV / dream host I'm Sasha
drew Madison here are the top stirs for
the week of June 28th 2017 last week
beta our beta archives hosted Windows 10
source code related to USB storage and
Wi-Fi drivers on its free FTP site since
then a spokesperson for Microsoft has
confirmed that this code is genuine the
breach was initially thought to be
massive
the register reported the delete'
consisted of around 32 terabytes of
files they claimed it included builds of
Windows that haven't yet been released
however later became clear that the leak
was smaller than originally reported and
what's more a fair bit of the data had
already been made available by Microsoft
through the shared source kit
Microsoft's partners and licensees had
access to this through the shared source
initiative that doesn't mean this data
leak isn't serious though it's an
embarrassing black mark for Microsoft at
a time that more and more people are
paying attention to computer security
while the source code has been removed
voluntarily by beta archive it's unclear
how many people had already downloaded
it it's possible that it could still it
still could be distributed via other
methods and used to create exploits for
Windows 10 Linux is still running on
more than 99% of the top 500 fastest
supercomputers in the world same as last
year 498 as the top 500 supercomputers
run Linux while the remaining to run
UNIX twenty years back most of the
supercomputers were in UNIX but
eventually Linux took the lead and
became the preferred choice of operating
system for the supercomputers yep now
not even one supercomputer in the top
500 run Windows and of course no super
computer runs Mac OS because Apple has
not yet manufactured the ieee
supercomputer this information is
collected by an independent organization
top 500 that publishes the details about
of top 500 fastest supercomputers known
to them twice a year you can go to the
website and filter out the list based on
country OS type used vendors etc the
main reason for this growth is the open
source nature of Linux supercomputers
are specific devices built for specific
purposes this requires a custom
operating system optimized for those
specific needs unix being a closed
source and proprietor price proprieties
/ proprietary right it's very holy Roley
operating system is an expensive deal
when it comes to customization Linux on
the other hand is free and easier to
customize engineering teams can easily
customize a Linux based operating system
for for each of the supercomputers the
world's fastest you can be super
computer on the current list is sunway
hi who lights it's based in national
supercomputing Center in waxey China and
has a speed of 93 petaflop per second
that's 93 quadrillion floating-point to
operations per second or put another way
93 million billion not impressed yet
here's a number we all can think about
for a minute the supercomputer has are
you ready for this 10 million cores
it's nearly three times as fast is the
second place winner wow the only two
super computers running UNIX are ranked
493 &amp; 494 that is so super cool Ravi I
cannot even tell you imagine that kind
of speed like that's not I don't even
know what you would do like I can't
imagine what you would really do I don't
like so crap my brain doesn't think as
fast as that computer thinks like I
don't know how fast is the human brain
thing not that many pata flops idle
flops per second
no way mind like wow mine in particular
is only about to my campaign where
provide for pry can't say it so there
nASA says the preliminary design of
design review of it's quiet supersonic
transport or quest project suggests it
is possible to create a supersonic
aircraft that doesn't produce a sonic
boom they've been able to build a
supersonic passenger planes for decades
but the problem is that they are so
noisy they generate complaints when
flown over populated areas of land even
when flying below the speed of sound
they're often noisier than always
subsonic aircraft and generate plenty of
complaints around airports which try to
keep things as quiet as possible so it's
not just not to disturb nearby residents
a quieter super sot super sonic
passenger aircraft has therefore long
been on the designers minds as there's a
market for faster travel over land as
well as oceans which is why NASA is
running the quest program a statement
posted on their website Monday says
senior experts and engineers from across
agency and the Lockheed Martin
corporation
concluded on Friday that the quest
design is capable of fulfilling the
aircraft's mission objectives which are
to fly at supersonic speeds but create a
soft thump instead of the disruptive
sonic boom associated with sonic flight
today NASA's commercial supersonic
technology project manager Peter Cohen
explains that the idea is to design the
airplane so that the shock waves that
are produced in the supersonic flight
are arranged in such a way that you
don't have a boom you just have a
general kind of gradual pressure rise
that produces a quiet sound
NASA's next step is finding
organizations willing to build a working
model of the experimental airplane and
fly it over American cities and towns to
hear how much noise it makes it hopes
that these flights could start in 2021
oh my gosh I'm just picturing like it oh
we didn't realize it's going to make a
weird sound yeah miss solar it's gonna
make a weird yeah what the heck was that
I don't fight over American cities and
towns I think I know well that should
that should be good for Canada Super
Mario World starfox and Yoshi's Island
are set to be released later this year
as part of a new classic SNES console
the super the original Super Nintendo
Entertainment System launched in 1990
sold 50 million units worldwide the SNES
classic follows the NES classic which
went on sale late last year but abruptly
discontinued in April much to the first
creation of fans Nintendo said limited
resources were to blame but it incest it
would not make the same error with the
SNES a Nintendo spokesperson said we
aren't providing specific numbers but we
will produce significantly more units of
Super NES classic Edition than we did of
NES classic edition the assertion
follows accusations from the gaming
community that Nintendo was engaging in
so-called intentional scarcity the
marketing ploy was supposedly intended
to drum up publicity for the Japanese
company which launched its flagship new
console the Nintendo switch earlier this
year as well as the classic titles
Nintendo will also bundle in a game from
the SNES era that was never actually
released starfox
to the console will cost $79 in the US
and $79.99 pounds in UK well I just have
to just like say for the record I do now
have a switch and I will bring it in and
show you if you would like it's amazing
is it good yes amazing ok now wait to
see attack yeah thanks for watching the
category-five TV newsroom don't forget
to Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with a slight Linux bias and for
more free content be sure to check out
our website from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha der maida
[Music]
[Applause]
