hello and welcome back to new every day
my name is Carrie my name is Jen and on
today's show we are in part two of the
adventure begins and we're asking the
question so who's on your team so stay
tuned we'll be right back
alright welcome back we're so glad that
you've tuned him again and we hope that
you've had a great week if you want to
check out our website we've got lots of
stuff going on there you can look at
past episodes you can go to our partners
page check out all the amazing
organizations and companies that are
supporting us and we are so grateful for
them but if you'd like to support our
show because there is a cost to running
this we would just be so grateful and
we're very thankful for category 5 TB
and for Robbie Ferguson our producer and
editor and the guy who makes all this
happen we're so thankful so if you go to
our partners page you can find a way
that they're that you can support us and
what's interesting carrie is today's
episode marks episode 53 we are past our
one year it was interesting is today we
are talking about who's on your team and
it was about a year and two months ago
that Robbie Ferguson approached us
saying hey would you consider doing an
internet tell or an internet television
show so weird cuz I never know exactly
how to explain it basically talk talking
about faith issues and we're like yeah
and to be honest there have been some
struggles over the year as far as you
know timing and what are we going to
talk about and even in our own
relationship it's sometimes it can get
quite intense right before we go to film
and at that point we always sit back and
go you know what this is a good sign
this means you know we're doing what the
Lord asks us to do because then we
doesn't want us sharing our faith he
doesn't want us talking to you every
week and we are encouraged by the
responses that we are getting so thank
you for watching with us for the last
year and we're just so excited because
today we are talking about who's on your
team like if God has called you to a
mission and that's what we talked about
last week got Jesus laid before them the
mission right and you will be my
witnesses in Jerusalem Judea Samaria and
beyond and I will give you the spirit so
they had the mission so we have the
mission we're going
all the world go and tell the world
reach the good news and so then he
leaves uh yeah he gone he's gone oh jeez
is no longer right there with them in
physical form on their team so one of
the questions they need to ask is okay
well who is on our team and there was a
hole there was a hole left by Judas
because he had committed suicide after I
am betraying Jesus yeah and so we're
going to read that passage from Acts
chapter 1 starting in verse 12 and it
says then they returned to Jerusalem
from the hill called the Mount of Olives
a Sabbath day's walk from the city when
they arrived they went upstairs to the
room where they were staying those
presents were peter john james and
Andrew Philip and Thomas Bartholomew and
Matthew James son of Alphaeus and Simon
the zealot and Judas son of James they
all joined together constantly a prayer
along with the women and Mary the mother
of Jesus and with his brothers in those
days Peter stood up among believers a
group numbering about 120 and said
brothers the Scriptures had to be
fulfilled which the Holy Spirit spoke
long ago through the mouth of David
concerning Judas who served as guide for
those who arrested Jesus he was one of
our number and shared in this ministry
with the reward he got for his wit
wickedness Judas bought a field there he
fell headlong his body burst open and
all of his intestines spilled out
everyone in Jerusalem heard about this
so they called the field in their
language I cald√© Akeldama which is field
of blood for Peter for said Peter it is
written in the book of psalms may his
place be deserted let there be no one to
dwell in it and may another take his
place of leadership therefore it is
necessary to choose one of the men who
have been with us this whole time the
Lord Jesus went in and out among us
beginning from John's baptism to the
time when Jesus was taken up from us for
one of these must become a witness with
us of his resurrection so they proposed
to men
joseph called barsabbas barsabbas also
known as justice and Matthias then they
prayed Lord you know everyone's heart
show us which of these two you have
chosen to take over this apostolic
ministry which Jews left to go where he
belongs then they cast lots and the lot
fell to Matthias so he was added to the
eleven apostles right on so they're
building their team mm-hmm we were
saying how it's very interesting that
Peter was the guy to stand up yes and
and replace Judas who betrayed him and
yet not that long ago Peter himself
denied Christ right he was reinstated by
jesus at when they had breakfast
together but now he's taking this place
of a leadership yeah and I just wonder
how they must have felt about that which
is a great question because they all
deserted him right and that's true but
they all were a part of that
conversation with with with Jesus put
the Last Supper uh the word Jesus
reinstates Peter it says in John 21
verse 15 it says when they'd finish
eating jesus said to Simon Peter and he
goes that's where the reinstatement goes
as you know feed my feed my lambs you
lovely love me three times and cuz
peterhead denied him three times yeah
and so they were part of that
conversation it doesn't say and Jesus
took him or you know further off now it
does say later on in the passage that
Peter turned and saw the disciple whom
Jesus loved was following them so I
think they could have very well started
with the disciples but then they went
for a walk but John would have heard
everything because John wrote it right
right so John is you know he's he's
heard this conversation he probably well
he writes it down so he probably told
the disciples so everybody knows the
conversation that Jesus has just had
with Peter and um and so I'm wondering
yeah I agree what were they thinking I
don't know like were they thinking yeah
obviously Peters the right choice
because of the conversation that Jesus
had with him did they have a discussion
amongst themselves that you know where
they're like yeah Peters gonna lead this
you know um it doesn't really allude to
that it's just something that you know
it just we're kinda wondering yeah and
now we know when we read the Gospels
peter has tended to be the one that has
come to the forefront he just seems to
be that natural leader where he's the
first one to acknowledge you are the son
of God you are the Christ right and it
seems like he's the one that's walking
on the water so he's just seems like the
natural leader so that seems like that's
the first person on their team is the
leader right and that's always good if
you're gonna be on a team with the
mission who's leading the mission like
it's so important to know who's actually
leading this because they help to Stuart
the vision they give direction they you
know encourage and support but then he
goes on to say but we have this spot
like that yeah Judas you know he was one
of the twelve and now he's no he's no
more we have 11 but we need 12 for some
reason it was really important for them
to have 12 we're not really know why
except for it could be representative of
the 12 tribes of Israel trend to be to
fill out the team in that way and Peter
says first written in the book of psalms
let his dwelling-place be desolate and
let no one live in it so he was familiar
with the Old Testament and saw that as a
prophecy that Judas was was the guy
fulfilling this word that he left he
died he left his office and now we need
to replace him yeah and what's you know
so here they are they well let's take a
step back because what's interesting is
it says in verse 12 15 in those days
Peter started up among the believers
right leads a group of numbering 120 and
the previous verse 14 says they they all
joined together constantly in prayer
among along with the women and Mary the
mother of Jesus and his like it wasn't
just a closed group of the 11 right
there are more people involved yeah and
women and women and so often um you know
it can look like
this closed men's club right because it
was the 12 disciples were men and yet
it's very clear that the women were part
of the prayer and the decision-making
and the support and it's like mmm that's
really interesting that it isn't a
closed group small it was a hundred and
twenty people that were meeting together
that G that Peter stands up and says
look like we need to fill this let's do
this together so we're going to take a
commercial break and we're going to come
back and discuss well how do they go
about discerning who would fill Judas a
spot so stay tuned there's been an
incredible Claude that's occurred in the
culture evolution and millions of years
is the greatest myth ever forced on the
minds of men Big Bang evolution millions
fears people just believe it blindly how
can you not believe that somebody
designed all of this we know he exists
it's not just faith we have science it's
really on our side okay thanks for
joining us we're jumping right back in
Jen so the question is how do they go
about fulfilling the spot that Judas had
vacated and what's interesting is
there's there were some qualifications
here he had to be part of I want to say
the journey right from the very
beginning right for him it says right
from when Jesus was baptism was baptism
it says baptism that's why I read it
time when Jesus was taken up from us
which is interesting because we usually
only think that it was the 12 right yeah
we're there from the beginning but the
bigger bigger Posse than that yeah cuz
what's interesting is that Jesus incalls
disciples till after John's baptism and
so that makes me think that these men
were aware of that you know before Jesus
called them they actually knew who he
was he there aware of what had happened
yeah and what's interesting that was one
of the first key things is that it is
necessary to choose a man who has been
with us the whole time and we talked a
little bit about why that's important
and it's like when you go to a store or
a restaurant in particular yes I will
often say to the waitress I do this all
the time there's tomatoes too much to
choose from on the menu and I will say
if you could have anything on the menu
what would you have and they tell me
because they've tasted the food and so
when they're giving that recommendation
it's coming from a legitimate place of
experience yeah or if you have
encountered someone who's trying to sell
something to you and they haven't used
the product you can see right through
them oh yeah it's like oh you or you
actually haven't done that are you
actually having experienced that and so
they wanted someone who had that
experience yeah and same like okay I'll
just want to share this story so
yesterday at work
I I pray for an opportunity to share
about Easter with a colleague of mine
and so it just so happened I was at
triage and then it was just me and a
colleague and we were talking and she
was saying asking me about my faith
actually she said you want to know what
I think's really weird about you is that
you actually became religious when you
were a teenager I was like oh yeah well
here's how it went down and then I was I
was sharing my story and then I was
trying to remember all these things that
I remember like hearing in sermons and
like things up you know my dad maybe
said I didn't have the full
understanding of it like prophecy and I
was kind of getting it jumbled up I
thought oh that's the wrong thing to say
why did I say that and I know that God
God takes our experience and somehow he
uses that to bring people to Christ like
yay but I would for some of what I was
telling her it wasn't coming from a
place of experiencing have it having
read it and having like my understanding
it essentially I was talking about what
other people had researched they had
done interesting and I was trying to
regurgitate what I remembered because I
was like okay that probably sounds smart
like isn't that ridiculous I know but we
thought it was my story that she wanted
to hear us it was your story but I was
trying to share from expert something I
hadn't actually understood yeah but she
just wanted to hear about what God had
done in my life ya know and that's why I
was so important that they choose
someone who had been there since the
baptism they knew the story they had
heard the message that Jesus had
proclaimed to them like they were
probably a part of those 40 days after
the resurrection so he had heard the
story they knew what the kingdom was
they knew what the mandate was right and
so that's why it was so important to
pick people who had been a part of the
whole journey and I know it's really you
know as a new pastor as a pastor coming
into a new church I spent some time this
week visiting with a lady who had been
in our church for 50-plus years I know
isn't that amazing Lily Wow 50 plus
years has long time I know and I said
tell me about our church because I want
to know I want to know the story if you
want to know the story then you have to
go to people who know the story and
that's why it's so important that they
chose who they did someone who knew
jesus knew the story and then it goes on
to say and so they they propose to men
that had been with them barsabbas and
Matthias and then they prayed so right
they themselves pick the two men these
are the qualifications and they fulfill
them they fulfill the qualifications and
then they prayed which is really
interesting and I'm always of the
mindset you know I work as if it all
depends on me and then I praise if it
all depends on God I like that yeah
because these are god-fearing men and
women they have been praying together
they know the mandate they have to find
someone okay Lord here are two people
they fit the qualifications now which
one to you do you want and that can be
hard sometimes because you know in my
heart I can be like oh but I really want
it to be this person and Kerry could be
like yeah they're good but what about
this person that you know yeah and it's
like know the Lord chose between them
and it says that then they cast lots and
the lot fell to Matthias and so he was
added so this whole idea of throwing
lots was an old testament principle if
they wanted to know if they needed to
have make a decision yeah the priests
carried uh the ooman and the Thurman are
the Thurman in the airmen human not uma
Thurman yeah no but there are these to
like sticks and he would throw them in
order so they could make the decision
and whatever turned up they believed was
was God was of God because the priests
did it then there was a holiness
attached to it so just made sense well
of course is what God wants us to do and
so they cast lots and the lot fell to
Matthias so they believed then okay Lord
that's what you want us to do and it's
interesting that this is the last time
that it's recorded in the New Testament
that they throw lots now are we
advocating that that's how you make
decisions no no because don't sit with a
dozen be like should I study mmm
no should i do homework no hey guys no
I'm not because from about that point on
over the next story which we'll get into
next week is the coming of the Holy
Spirit right and that purpose of the
Holy Spirit is to lead to guide direct
so then we rely on the Holy Spirit and
the Holy Spirit speaking to you and to
me the people on the team to bring unity
right ah so they didn't question the
Lots they just went with it and it's
like how often do we question things and
I've been in the position several times
where our new pastors come on and we
trust what we call the four methods
church the pastoral leadership task
force to you know find the right people
to fit the qualifications right we trust
them these are god-honoring people and
when they come back to us and we are
unified about this then we believe that
the Holy Spirit has been talking to them
whether or not we totally see it or see
God's plan we believe that the Holy
Spirit is a spirit of unity and so if
there's a spirit of unity amongst the
team whether we get it or we don't we
have to believe that the Lord is you
know raising up a certain person for
certains dime to do a certain job
whether we understand it or not we have
to walk in obedience to what God is
doing and that can sometimes be so hard
when we start questioning some of the
decisions or people that that get placed
into ministry who we get to work within
the church more like oh I had God choose
them or or I can't believe the team
chose the order and we're like whoa
let's step back a second do they fit the
qualifications yeah they do is a spirit
at work with them yes he is so then
what's the issue well I might not get
along hmm then that's your issue you
know and so how can I think we can
question you know the people God chooses
because we don't necessarily see what
God sees and so when we talk about the
building of the
you are we willing to let God put his
people on your team because he's he's
called us to go to Jerusalem Judea
Samaria and beyond and he's called us to
do it in community in church and and so
that can actually be quite challenging
sometime when we sit beside people in
church more like our can't wait God
chose you you know and so whether it's
it's the pastor you might be really
challenged with at this point in time or
it's the person in the pew sitting
beside you going I can't believe they
teach Sunday school or I can't you know
yeah then it really is but lord I know
they love you yeah I know they're
qualified so would you work on my heart
so that I am a good team member so I
want to put it out there and it's like
no no no God fix them God fix them yeah
give me a new heart to accept them yeah
because the purpose is to bring God's
kingdom to the entire Earth so yes God
is building a team but we need to be
willing to pray and to accept the people
that God brings on our team which can
sometimes be difficult but possible and
when we allow God to take that he is the
one that does the miracles so true yeah
why don't we pray Jen yeah I agree
father thank you so much for this time
thank you Lord that you orchestrated the
beginning of your church and you hold it
all together you hold the churches all
over the world together I want to pray
for the people watching right now are
listening who maybe are having some
conflict in their church family hmm I
pray that you would Holy Spirit bring
unity there that if forgiveness needs to
happen that you would help them work
that out and that they would grow excuse
me to become the body of Christ that you
want them to be with Jesus you leaving
the way and I just thank you for what
you did some 2,000 years ago when you
built your first team and Lord may we be
found faithful to love you and serve you
and to accept other people
just as you do I pray this in Jesus name
Amen so thanks for tuning in we
encourage you to continue reading with
us along in in the book of Acts chapter
2 because next week we're going to talk
about the power to do what God calls us
to do so see you next week have a great
you
