all right we've got a question that came
in from googly oogly on youtube lee
bubala nice how in the world do I change
my pencil color in GIMP a valid question
hmm
this really put me in my place because
it's an honest question
where and it was commented on one of our
beginner guides to GIMP right when I
realized oh my goodness we have never
taken it down to the base is that simple
right and and I and I say that in
absolute recognition of hey you've never
used it before how do why do I expect
that you know this right in a nutshell
yes okay so it's almost like we need to
have like beginner 101 classes well and
this is this is good I just happen to
have GIMP 2.10 point for coming up on my
laptop here it comes
nice screen they got they got rid of the
wolf though how what he was I used I
thought he was wolf I used to love
seeing that wolf what it loaded okay so
let's get right into the very very
basics that changes with every version I
don't but still okay so first of all I'm
gonna create a new file this is gonna
give me a canvas to work with
we're working in pixels and if I want a
1080p file so say this is something that
I'm gonna be using as a desktop
wallpaper that's gonna be fine 1920 by
1080 hit OK and there is my canvas now
you see that it's a little bit of a blue
color that's because my background color
is actually this kind of tinted blue so
I'm gonna show you how to change your
foreground color for your paintbrush and
tools like that and your background
color so over here I'm gonna click on
the color there see how I just kind of
clicked on the square that's in the
background and I can change my
background color to any of the colors of
the rainbow with something like 11.6
million colors right
if you have the RGB number you can enter
that up here are G B if you have the
exit the HTML notation you can enter
that here like white is ffffff or if you
want red it would be ff0000 right cool
so if you have that notation or if you
know that or you can just drag so find
your spectrum here remember I'm working
with the background so if I find say
some green and I find like a deep green
here and then I hit OK now my background
is this deep green color and if I right
click and go edit fill with background
color now that's the color of my canvas
but what I want to do is I want to
actually fill it with white so let's see
if my foreground is white right now it's
not it's fee fie fie fie which is just a
little bit of a gray white so I'm gonna
go see what I did there
I'm just dragging this tool here which
takes me right into the corner up here
and that gives me full white so now if I
right click and go edit fill with
foreground color now it's completely
white so now if I change my background
to my foreground and my foreground to my
background by clicking on this little
arrow up here now my foreground color is
green and again I can change that any
way I like
so say I want it to be like an orange
color so I can go over here to the to
the spectrum and then bring it up into
the orange that I want and then grab my
tool which is going to be working with
with the foreground color so this is a
painting tool but you see that it's
quite large so what I can do is I can
actually change the size by dragging
here or entering a number so now watch
see how I've now taken that down to 6 so
I can change that to be a little more
you know like a pencil and there is a
pencil tool too so you can grab that and
it looks like that and it operates very
much the same way you can change the
size and that will change the actual
brush size of your
your pencil okay so I think that that
answers the question at hand the next
thing that you'll want to learn how to
do so if I fill this in with white again
so filled with background color now and
then I'm gonna select none because I
just select it all because I do that it
habit watch what I can do here I'm gonna
go right click and layer and then new
layer and then I'm just gonna say okay
leaving this as a transparency layer so
here's the fill width we're just gonna
leave that transparency okay now I have
this kind of layer here and I've got my
white background layer so on this empty
layer I can now do my drawing okay so
I'm not going to actually draw anything
I'm just using a touchpad on my laptop
but just to show you now if I turn off
the background layer you can't really
see it but it's still there so now what
I can do is I can actually change the
background color
let's use something like a pink fuchsia
and fill that in and the orange stays
that stays where it was because it's on
its own layer
see that so I'm highlighting the layer
that I want to work with and then
changing that layer however I want so in
a case where you know I'm drawing a
person or whatever this is really
starting to look like spongebob like an
evil one okay so say that's what I did
but I wasn't happy with it now I can
actually just turn off that layer or
start again or you know once you've
created something where you've got
layers upon layers I think about like
you've drawn the body and then you
create another layer for the eyes and
you're not quite happy with the eyes so
you can scrub them out without affecting
all the other layers yes if that's what
you wanted to do so tonight we've
covered kind of creating our canvas
changing our foreground and background
color plus change in the color of our
actual canvas background and creating
layers so that we can add things on top
of that as many layers as you want
you can you can have an infinite number
of layers on the GNU image manipulation
program so here now if I wanted to make
the body separate I could create yet
another layer and
okay and then start working on the BOD
all right all right look at me I'm an
artiste don't know where my daughter
gets it from it is not for me so now I
can turn off the body layer or I can
turn off the head head layer and I can
in fact name these Sasha just by
double-clicking and I can call this head
body so that when I get really going I
don't get confused which is which right
so now I can also do things like hey
let's fill in that head so let's use the
magic wand touch it and then right click
and fill with a different color so let's
pick a different color here yellow make
it yellow is it spongebob
okay edit fill and see what I've done
there Rey and his SquarePants no not
really not really but it's about what we
learned here not the artistic death of
my drawings I thank you that's the GNU
image manipulation program
also called the GIMP you can get it for
free at gimp.org and thanks again to
googly oogly for calling us on the fact
that we haven't really touched on those
real basics I'd encourage you if you
have some basic questions please send
them in to us and we will approach them
just like this and I'll add Lee we will
gladly teach you what we are able to
teach who dance what we're here for
we're here to share what we know it's
all about the education that's it that's
it
[Music]
[Applause]
