welcome to episode number 303 of
category 5 technology TV it's tuesday
the 9th of july twenty thirteen i'm robi
ferguson I'm Hillary Rumble got a lot
coming up in the newsroom so you can
look forward to this are you an ubisoft
user change your password because
they've been hat mmm Samsung is buying
set-top box maker boxy in-game purchases
are coming soon to world of warcraft a
new form of advertising is vibrating the
add into your head freaky and lastly
that cool robot from honda asimo is
having trouble understanding human
gestures let's check around cuz these
stories are coming up later in the show
hey robot I'm over here hey we've got
some stuff to give away tonight we've
got the newer tech 7 port USB 2.0 what
is exciting about this thing it is too
it's got a 2.1 amp powered out put the
whole thing is like four amps it's a
powered USB hub so you're not gonna be
drawn any power from your computer make
sure you get into the chat room okay
category 5 on freenode in a couple of
moments time we're going to be giving
that away draw bot is going to be going
into the chat room here's why it's
important for you to sign on because
it's gonna be getting all the names from
the chat room and conducting later on
that's your ballot be in the chat room
on tonight's show I'm not gonna give
away too much I was thinking how much
should I give away on tonight's show
we're actually going to be showing you
something in a little bit interesting a
little bit nostalgic for me we're gonna
be looking at a distribution of linux
from the early days we're going to be
going back in time and seeing what
distribution of linux actually helped me
to make the switch from microsoft
windows over to linux
and we're going to be looking at it on
original hardware no virtual machines
here we're talking the real deal yet
equated I know so stick around it's
gonna be a lot of fun and of course I've
got friends that you're trying to
convert over to Linux tonight's your
night to to kind of chat with us and
we're just going to bounce around some
ideas but you need to know for those
particular users cool and if you have
questions as always you can give us a
little ringling on our telly you can
won't fall it's all aren't the vault we
can hear your voice we're used to seeing
seeing your voice through typing but we
can hear your voice give us a ring a
ling 2545 cat5 TV that's the phone
number yeah so ok what L yeah well
that's uh we'll chat with akimoto in
just a moment he's got a couple
questions for us about the flooding up
here in canada uh it's been kind of a
crazy kind of month and we'll be right
back don't go anywhere don't forget get
into the chat room we're giving one of
these away stick around this is category
5 technology TV at eco alkalines we
believe you should be able to trust your
batteries not just here but here here
and here but with one exception you
should also be able to trust your
batteries here Eco alkalines of the
world's first and only certified carbon
neutral battery manufactured to the
highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco alkalines provide
performance the rivals leading national
alkaline battery brands at a comparable
price find out more about the Eco
alkalines difference eco alkalines calm
this is category 5 technology TV i'm
your host Robbie Ferguson I'm Hillary
Rumble hanging out thanks for joining us
tonight folks don't forget get into the
chat room because draw bot is going to
be there in just a couple of moments I
don't know how much clearer I can be
we're going to be giving away a 7 port
USB to point out our hub it's the dream
powered hub the best one you're ever
going to find and we're given that away
in a couple of minutes we're going to
send it anywhere in the world anywhere
because we are worldwide show due to the
beauty of the Internet this is true this
is true I wanted to say happy birthday
to Crystal Wells tomorrow this is like
birthday month it is the show you've got
a birthday coming up yes I do yours is
19 yeah good memory well cuz I'm the 17
very close that is the 20th this is like
this is definitely birthday month I
think we've got a couple other ones on
the calendar as well but tomorrow is
crystal Wells birthday so happy birthday
to her you recently had your ipod stolen
oh it's still a fresh wound yeah I'm
tell you so what's going on yeah if you
bought anyone I haven't moved forward
I'm still in the morning phase I damn
its top hey I mean because you've got
your entire music library on this little
device and you know whatever is whatever
model of ipod it's like your whole
libraries there and if you didn't think
to sync it you lose it all so the
community and and we hear the show we've
come together and just gotten you a
couple of things so a couple of
donations have come in and thank you all
fine so we haven't seen you in so long
it's amazing but finally get to give
that to you so that that's just to go to
your your ipod silky world that's so
kind and if you want to send something
to Hillary's attention just go to cat
five TV /c and just in the notes in the
comments there just mention that it's
for Hillary's I bottom will get her a
itunes heard or something just tell just
to help her yes very very scuzz it's not
really the ipod that is painful it's the
library music you lose all that music
and you don't have it in your iTunes
account so well thank you for one very
very very generous and kind Dave made
who says who would steal an ipod and I
think we've been through this before
pretty much any teenager Punk teenage
hung teenager New York are always then
it's probably senior citizens actually
Dave that's my guess they're really good
at computers my grandparents are ya so a
gamoto asking about the flooding up here
it has been quite the year in Ontario
and in Canada yeah Toronto got hit last
night just yesterday afternoon I was at
work and you know the mornings come in
and and I think they were pretty well
prepared for it and that you know the
subway was shut down I don't think that
anybody got stranded in subway tunnels
or anything that I know of there's like
a gold train the gut yeah stuck in you
know several feet of water and they took
hours upon hours to get everybody out of
the train and so that's a little bit you
know scary but didn't actually get to us
up here and Barry which is surprising
because we're only you know a 40 45
minute drive away so we've been really
fortunate that way but we're certainly
thinking about everybody who is affected
by the flooding and their businesses I
mean I can't imagine you know you go
into work and it's like you're your
business is destroyed and it's like sure
we can rebuild but you know it's a lot
of work somebody that I that I know
through somebody else had just built a
brand new cottage and of course in come
the flood waters and it's like they just
finished this cottage and it's just
unbelievable so so it's been a scary
year for sure for a lot of people we are
heading up to halliburton County as we
always do every year and and you know
the the flooding was really really bad
there it's receded now but you know it's
it's just wild the think of last year
when we went it was drought conditions
we weren't allowed to have a campfire
so crazy what can you do Hillary
mentioned it but make sure you pick up
the phone if you want to give us call
ask you to ask us your question 2545
cat5 TV if it's long distance for you
and you're in Canada or the United
States and you can't make that for
long-distance reasons papas a private
message in the chat room with your
telephone number including the area code
and we'll give you a call look I you we
will call you okay well should we give
away this thing yeah I love prizes I
know I'm looking at all the people right
now the chat room yeah okay one of that
i want to say greetings to everybody
yeah loads of people in the chat room
thank you so much for joining us tonight
I'm going to bring up draw bot draw bot
is an amazing piece of software that
goes into the chat room grabs
everybody's names as well as those who
have cast their ballots through email
over the past week and sends everything
to us so draw bot is going into the chat
room now oh and we're drawing for a USB
2.0 7 port hub from newer technology
newer it's newer tech com make sure you
check out their website here we go here
we go going through everybody's names
yeah cycling through so what's exciting
about this is that this is a 4 amp
powered hub so that means if you plug in
a scanner it's not drawing any power
from your computer if you plug in any
device is not going to draw the power
from your computer it's going to get it
from this but it also has a 2.1 amp
powered dedicated power port and what
that means is that you're able to power
something like a charger your your phone
charger or your iPad charger and it will
do a super job charging because it's 2.1
amps unlike your computer which might be
one amp so gives you a lot more power
all at once going through the names in
the chat room and those who have
submitted their entries through the
the email nice to see so many familiar
and new faces in the chat room today we
are really representing the the whole
world tonight start with speed up here
there we go dissipation is killing me I
know you never know who how many people
are gonna be in the chat room through
newer tech comm compatible with USB 3 2
and 1 point 1 devices of course it's
daisy chain abul so you can hook up up
to 127 full speed devices to one single
port on your computer wait data transfer
rates or you know excellent I and it of
course is fully powered you can actually
do this you can plug this in without
even plugging it into your computer and
charge all your devices can be used just
as a USB charger because a lot of
devices these days are USB
oki doodle just say hi to those who are
new registered viewers and I see some of
your names flying by on the screen
tonight we have want to go through this
one at a time I'll say rock 88 hard now
that's one of our new registrations on
the website Holly Meg Greene prolly
matte grey holla ma shan uh Carter slad
is also joining us as a new viewer here
at category 5 TV and so is why Mac
thanks for joining swl brazil nice to
have you here the bars you rock thanks
for coming planet h nice to see you i
read that as planet it might be planning
wedding planning a treat sources also
like to welcome linux grandma hey linux
grandma how cool kitsune smiley face
also a new viewer and so is rotten bow
ste on though yeah Ron Ron Bowen could
be Stephen C nice to have you here and
am Costello we welcome you to and
finally our latest registration on our
website is Nicola neyo Nicolini yo
welcome to the show okay now we're
really getting somewhere speedy holy
good luck everybody and the winner of
the port the hub is kitsune smiley face
congratulations congratulations so you
are the winner of this device it is a
seven port USB 2.0 hub with the powered
2.1 amp port on the back as well Hillary
and I were talking just before the show
well what can you do with this well
you've got a laptop and you've only got
one two or three USB ports you plug this
in and all of a sudden seven ports so
much more beard have like your computer
mouse and then like I've got like a card
reader and then sometimes are charging
my phone and then yeah you know well you
know what else is that if you plug in
let's say your mouse and your keyboard
to your laptop computer
it is on battery you're actually
draining the battery faster trail this
because you plug it into the wall it's
got its own separate power it's not
going to drain any power from your
computer then fastest cool kitsune
smiley face all you have to do is send
us an email live at category 5 TV with
your real name as well as your your full
mailing address just so that we can ship
that to you anywhere in the world
congratulations and thanks for everybody
participating in the draw tonight as
well and like I say great to see so many
familiar as well as new faces in the
chat room nice to have you joining us
tonight okay always a hoot and holler
hmm yeah category 5 technology TV is a
member of the tech podcast network if
it's tech it's here as well we are a
member of the International Association
of Internet broadcasters hmm just blast
you with that and then we're going to
pull up well usually we look at new
devices here on the show brilliant new
stuff Oh before I move on I want to say
thank you very much to keka CAC CAC CAC
CAC actually sent us as I look down here
send us a couple of microphones we had
we did a radio show recently we were
actually part of an audio podcast and
i'll certainly post the links in the
show notes for episode number 303 but
one of the problems that we had is we're
short on microphones so at the very last
minute i'm emailing eric kid who is a
professional musician and ben yeah
please can you bring some microphones
and kakak x stood up stepped up and said
I've got a couple mics don't really use
them then would be happy to send them to
you so you know these kind of things you
know sometimes that that kind of stuff
comes in and you don't you don't realize
how you can support the show but now we
don't have that problem where if we want
to do another radio broadcast we can do
that in for you well because we
generally we only have these two headset
microphones right so if we're gonna sit
around in that kind of a you know I what
do you call it a round table kind of
environment it was it was kind of
makeshift okay thank you appreciate that
that's very good okay so I was digging
through the old gear over the past
couple of days just getting cleaned up
we're working on
the studio studio D is hopefully coming
in the fall your donations are going to
help us get there as well as clicking on
banners and things like that we are
hoping to renovate a new space for the
studio because this I don't know if you
remember if you've been watching the
show long enough and saw us move into
studio see where we are now this is a
temporary space this is this is
basically the the rec room of our house
and we hope to eventually turn it into a
rec room so with all that said we had
plans from the very very beginning when
my wife and I bought this house that we
were going to move the studio into its
own space and that's moving forward so
with all that means unpacking old stuff
and going through and sorting and
figuring all you know where do we put
everything and getting rid of a lot of
old e-waste and things like that
interestingly enough I was going through
the junk and i found an old laptop from
1999 1999 that's when I loved the
Backstreet Boys Wow was a long time ago
missin X and with this I so I fired it
up they don't make them like they used
to do they folks and and it fired up and
i want to show you what's on there but
first i'm going to show you this this is
amazing and it feels longer it's like a
like a weight lifting worse I can barely
this is really heavy folks ah look at
the thickness of that compare that to
like your you're a tablet I mean that
this is more powerful really if you
think about it really bad this has got
way more power than this it's not so
bizarre it's got a this is this is
nostalgic it's got a three and a half
inch floppy drive case you want to throw
some floppies on there it has a dial-up
modem I don't even know if it's if it's
probably it'll be a 56k probably be 92
or something like that so to be you know
the the better end of what they had at
the time but you notice no network port
there's no Wi-Fi no ability to get on
the internet out of the box unless you
use dial-up
we're day so if you want to use dial-up
oh my goodness that's heavy there are
some pcmcia slot so you can put in a you
know like a ethernet card or something
if you want to buy one separately they
were really expensive back then though
I'm looking I don't even see a single
USB port USB oh there one USB port so
this is where I really need to us yes it
has a single USB 1.1 port not a lot you
can do is hat okay so I want to open
this up for you because what I found on
the screen took me way back let's turn
this around even see it was that even
the power cable is it's so fun yuge
there we go this actually has on it and
observe the fantastic keyboard and mouse
linds fire 5 which would have been you
know a later release of linds fire so
this laptop are originally you know
thirty five hundred dollar laptop oh my
god with the five-hundred-dollar cd-rom
upgrade can you imagine only it has the
five-hundred-dollar cd-rom upgrade so a
four thousand dollar laptop still runs
in 2013 but who wants it huh I like that
around with me so yeah when I was well
in 1999 I started tinkering with Lennox
I had caldera open Linux I had red hat
and I wanted to I wanted to get away
from Microsoft Windows personally
because I didn't like being tied into
the microsoft business model this as I
say is Lynn spire and you'll see that
out of the box you know it has stuff
like why linux and it's a crudely
animated kind of slide show run by
today's largest companies Linux is the
fastest-growing server operating system
in the world because it is incredibly
stable affordable and secure yet all of
those wonderful features make it great
for your desktop or laptop too so
remember that linux at that time was not
really on the desktop like it is today
it's hard to manipulate from this angle
then this is the Linn spire desktop and
you see that it looks almost as modern
as current as anything that is out there
right now it's KDE I'm sure if it
responds to hotkeys even back then but
what was well I got processed table
coming up apparently the windows key
hotkey brings up the processes okay what
was interesting about this at the time
is that it really felt like a windows 98
style interface right because that's
what everybody was running at the time
windows 98se and so I was looking for
something that was familiar enough that
I could make that transition onto a
non-windows operating system but it
could be it would be Linux lindos came
along in 2001 so this laptop was a
couple years old at that point lindos
was a kind of a project by michael
robertson you'll remember he's the guy
who found at mp3.com and michael
robinson has michael robertson Robinson
Robertson Robertson Robertson I think
Wikipedia of farming can search for you
Thanks fact Robertson michael robertson
chat room will help me out because this
is all from memory but um he founded
mp3.com and as you know if you used
mp3.com at the time i was a you know a
band and so you know the fact that he
dropped us and sold out to another
company and and the service completely
dropped all of its users was kind of
offensive and he did the same thing with
with lindos kind of dropped it and sold
out tues and ross or something like that
and so just it became a dead project but
it was alive just long enough to get me
and a bunch of other users into linux
and this linux was you know some people
hated it because it tried to be a
windows alternative it tried to be the
windows kind of interface and linux
users didn't like that at the time which
is kind of funny but for somebody coming
from windows this was brilliant fall in
transition it really really helped
people to come over
to michael robertson yes robertson I
knew it you got it you think I would
remember that it's all good yeah so
everything was kind of like I say laid
out very much like Windows 98 the the
menu system was you know pretty well
laid out and what was great about lindos
Lin spire will inspire they had to
change their name in 2002 I think
because Microsoft sued them and said
windows was infringing on their
copyrights and blah blah blah so that's
why the name has changed so if i say
lindos and lynn spire they're
interchangeable it started out as lindos
click and run was a project that they
had brought out as part of the windows
operating system it was very much like
synaptic package manager or probably a
hybrid between synaptic package manager
and what we now know as a boon to
software center it was very graphical
and what was neat about click and run is
that everything was single click
installation so it was really really
easy to find software and install it and
lindos was one of the first real user
friendly ones to offer an ability to
install any program that you wanted
without needing a CD without having to
put media you know we back then we had
to have 15 floppy disks and you put in
the first one and if one of them in the
set was broken you'd be messed because
it wouldn't install so click and run
brought us all that which was really
really cool at the time and it's a dead
project as well now I came with
openoffice 1.1 there it is you can see
that this whole computer kind of chugs
along but so it had everything that we
needed because you know what was the one
thing that would keep people from
running Linux was the software mostly
you know office software things like
that so having open office on there gave
us the ability to open Word documents
Excel spreadsheets and all that kind of
stuff and really you know helped with
that transition because it kept you
compatible with all of your windows
using friends as well as you all year
old documents a daughter created
so this was very very cool as well and
one of the you know again one of the
earlier desktops to include all this so
remember that this is you know we're
going back to 2002 2003 you know this
version that I'm running right here
would have been released in about two
thousand five so you know I followed the
update path to get the latest version
and then they died shortly after that so
I think what was intriguing about lindos
inspire and that era of Linux is that it
really allowed you to transition to let
us in a desktop way because up until
then it really felt like Linux was a
really scary thing it was terminal all
about terminal it was all about are you
rude or not and that was a gray area
with lindos and this gave us a chance to
switch over so for me I made that switch
lindos allowed me to make that switch
permanently and one hundred percent I
was able to drop windows completely and
then later through virtualization and
things that I started being able to to
do some other stuff as well so all very
very cool did anyone else use lindos
linds fire i'd love to hear from you it
wasn't as popular of a distro as some
but what happened is is that ubuntu came
out right and then this is where lindos
kind of started to die because they were
based on debian and then they said oh
well bhuntu is out of goons who's doing
great with warty let's base linds fire
on ubuntu but lindos Lynn spire was a
paid for distribution you had to buy it
oh so again kind of ticked off a lot of
people in the community because it's all
free software just rebranded I did a lot
of rebranding but they you got to give
it to them they made it really really
easy for a Linux or for a Windows user
to switch over to Linux even simple
things can i show you i'm going to right
click on the desktop just going to
minimize everything here
there's the desktop simple little things
remember this is really really really
old I hope you can see that a little bit
right click and I'm going to go
configure desktop and remember the Linux
was really really hard to configure hard
to work on at that time and here you've
got something very much like you would
expect on a window system kind of like a
control panel provided in KDE and really
made it simple everything has been
worded in such a way that it's easy to
follow and it was really really easy to
use I know it was an easy transition
because I went through it and I also
brought a lot of people with me you were
converted I bought up a whole bunch of
Lindos disks at the time and I wish I
still had some I know that I do
somewhere but bought them in the boxes
and they were fully retail packaged and
everything and and started distributing
them to my clients and some of the
clients actually switched because it was
great no more viruses and all the
benefits of Linux started to show
themselves on the desktop so then wound
to kept on growing and growing and
growing because they had a different
business model rather than making their
money from sales they're making it from
support yeah relisting interesting
development over the years a what
converted you to Linux or are you still
trying to convert yourself or somebody
else to Linux love to know send us an
email and we'd love to bring it up on
the show for me though as a you know
coming from being a Windows user I think
that the most important thing to
remember is that we've all been there
and it's it's not really a I don't try
to sell Hillary on switching to linux by
forcefully doing that right yeah but
I'll show you what it does and yeah you
said before oh look there's flames yeah
that's cool I think the flames will help
you switch but when you realize the
freedom that you get when you switch to
linux that's a big thing when you
realize that there are so many people in
a community kind of like category 5 is a
community it's a little bit different
than it is watching a TV show when
there's a community involved everybody
kind of works
together and makes it better and better
and then you can participate in these
kinds of forums and things and and you
really feel like you're a part of
something as opposed to just installing
software on your computer and the
freedom is fantastic so and the cost
savings do I need to mention that if
your if your currency is currency that
alone you should drive your so what's
your room so we look forward to your
emails live at category 5 TV that's my
linux conversion story in a nutshell
interesting that was really a cool find
for me that is pretty funny actually
brought me back I haven't thought about
floppy disks in a long time not even on
my radar well why would they be really
yeah but now I have a floppy drive
reader so I find a flaw we did mafia
tested through in the dump I didn't have
any way to read them that's pretty funny
action all right well worlds are you
ready for some news new and exciting
things here are the top stories from the
newsroom Ubisoft has suffered a security
breach and his warning account holders
that details have been compromised oh
dear the video game publisher said that
user names email addresses and encrypted
passwords had been illegally accessed
but that subscribers debit and credit
card details remain safe as it did not
store them that's good to know they said
58 million people were in its database
at the time of the attack and they are
recommending that all ubisoft users
change their passwords immediately so
somebody was able to get their email
addresses and they're encrypted
passwords and everything now encrypted
means that it is obfuscated adana
algorithm say md5 or something can't
really be reversed but if you use a
plain English password or if they have
the time to brute force that they can
figure it out and then they reverse it
once they figured out what your password
is the first thing they'll do is test
okay well if this is a hotmail email
account i'm going to log into hotmail
i'm going to put in their email address
and try that pass
that they're using on OB soft is it the
same one oh and then I'm gonna try it on
paypal and I'm gonna try it everywhere
else so it's very important to change
that password that's scary stuff mmm
Samsung is buying boxee from our box
either a loom I'm sorry what behind the
what from the what now get a little
tongue-tied here sorry world Samsung is
buying foxy the Israeli firm that
manufactures the boxee box popular
multimedia set-top box that is available
around the world the South Korean
electronics giant said it had acquired
key talent and assets from the company
Wow this will help us to improve or
continue to improve the overall user
experience across our connected devices
it added boxey's latest product is like
DVR for the cloud allowing subscribers
to records their TV shows on to its
servers and then stream them to TVs
computers and other smart devices cool
that's cool that is cool that makes
proper sense that you'd use the cloud
for that purpose and then all of a
sudden you know it's like my pogoplug
where I put all my videos on it and then
I can watch them from my ipod hurt me I
can watch them from my android tablet I
can watch them from my rikomagic mini PC
up on the TV I can watch them on my
computer because it the cloud just opens
that wide open for you cool that it's
part of the device very cool but
unexpected that they be bought out by
Samsung so they're the what may be the
world's largest television manufacturer
and now boxee box it makes me wonder are
they going to keep boxee box going are
they going to integrate their
technologies into their TVs to further
create value for their products I will
only tell what sort of dynasty they will
come up with together dynasty that's a
technology dynasty meet dad dad dad
taken over the world speaking of world
world of warcraft maker blizzard is to
start experimenting with a system that
lets players use real moola to buy goods
in the game Blizzard revealed and the
experiment in a message posted to the
world of warcraft chat
forums before now players have only been
able to use or spend real money in out
of game stores to buy pets and mounts
for the characters the first item
players can buy is a potion that boosts
the experience points they gain from
kills and loot world of warcraft is
facing increasing competition for other
massively playable online games that
remain free to play throughout many of
these have already gone down the route
that Blizzard is contemplating by
letting players use real money to buy
gear boost and other equipment for the
characters speculation is that the new
feature will be rolled out first in Asia
since that's where the game's most of
that the oh my goodness 8.3 million
players are located bulky do it's
different step now I play planet calypso
intropia entropia universe and it's kind
of a different approach they actually
have an in-game currency that you can
deposit into so it's like a one-tenth
ratio so if I put in ten dollars I get a
hundred dollars in ghetto in the game so
works out pretty good but it's kind of a
similar premise and that I'm buying with
real money things in the game mm-hmm but
they're actually it sounds like they're
actually selling within the game like
you'll sit there with your credit card
or maybe you'll have it on your account
or something yeah opens them up to a
whole bunch of there's a whole new can
of worms in there they're storing things
like that so let's see what happens next
game just got done time they're calling
it the talking window advertising agency
BBDO has come up with a unique way to
transmit audio ads to individuals on
trains by making the window send out a
message and talk in their heads it
sounds strange but the technology being
used isn't you what am I trying to say
who writes this stuff it's my mouth it's
not working I apologize okay this sounds
like a crazy idea about the technology
being used to do it isn't new the window
has a transmitter attached which makes
the window vibrate or when someone
leaves or sleeps against the window the
vibrations play the message so only the
person in contact with the window
can hear it through bone conduction
interesting now do you know much about
bone conduction I know about a little
bit because of bone conducting hearing
aids that's what I'm wondering so it
sounds like a similar technology to like
hearing aids and things like that or if
you put your head up against something
than you and somebody's talking in
another room you can hear it it's like
oh weird freaky weird guys freaky weird
so everyone else on the train won't hear
thing because if you're like dozing off
against the window go through your brain
your bones bone conduction is the same
science that makes hearing certain Oh
make certain hearing aids and headphones
work as well as being used in the
military the sound waves vibrate the
tiny bones in your inner ear bypassing
the eardrum so you can still hear the
ambient sound as well the ad campaign is
currently running on trains in Munich
and North rhine-westphalia germany
promoting a new mobile app for sky
Deutschland cool neat idea and lastly
Honda's popular robot asimo face
problems with just your recognition on
its first day as a museum guide at the
Marriott consigns Museum in Tokyo the
Machine struggled to differentiate
between museum-goers raising their hands
to ask question and raising their hands
to take photos Oh Scott all messed up it
is working as a tour guide at the museum
for the next four weeks as a trial asimo
cannot respond yet to voice commands the
robot is instead designed to answer 100
questions selected via touch screen from
a written panel but during a
demonstration it frozen asked who wants
to ask a similar question who wants to
ask a similar question who wants to ask
ask a little question repeatedly when
people pointed their cameras at it will
break them out Honda robotics technology
specialist Satoshi shaggy me he said
right now it can recognize a child
waving to it but it's not able to
comprehend the meaning of the wave you
can get these full stories online at
category 5 TV / newsroom the category 5
TV news room is researched by roy w Nash
contributions from Stephen Delaney and
our amazing community of viewers if you
have a story you think's worthy of honor
mention send us Nina news from a
category 5 guy TV from the newsroom I'm
Hillary Rumble one of the stories came
to us from our very own heather bailey
ground as well thank you for sending
that in and i want to know how this guy
can't understand things but he can feel
emotion so much so that he loves us oh
that's sign language guys sign language
folks hey tonight's show is brought to
you in part by ads irk they are the next
generation of ad serving if you've got a
website make sure you check them out you
can monetize your website by placing
banner ads and things like that ads ur
can help they are the fastest
asynchronous banner ad code in the world
ads are calm we've got somebody on the
cat phone here thanks for calling us up
castle hello well hello who's this yeah
markers late hi Jim you're live on the
air with category 5 what can we do for
you well i was worried i just sent you a
couple emails i send you the link in the
second one it's the que tu XP if you
bundu 12 volt 4.2 LTS is in Portuguese
and has the converter to English yeah
and and this cat the classic menu okay
and once you install it and you set it
up and you know you have to have it
installed then once you've set it up and
it starts again as it gives you the
English language also you actually can
get it in in English as well so is this
a new distribution that you're showing
us here well it's the other 12 04 /
barely do one yeah and i like i like it
because it has a classic menu cool but
KD you enough that you just follow the
flag you know I could have the English
you go to the control panel where it has
the bag that shows you the languages yep
you set up I'm gonna try to make a
youtube video on it okay I had a
question for you about how do I get an
intro i downloaded one of those free
ones where you
it's from my expressed and they send an
mp4 to your box yeah we're how you put
it in with your video that you made like
to actually meld the two videos together
yeah but it's an M people where my other
one is in it was it org org file you
know oh like an OGG ogg ROG be I'm
wondering how do you know intertwined
like a sound like a music when mp4 is it
or is that video know that mp4 is a
video codec or a video container for
MPEG video so what you would do Jim is
you need to use a piece of software such
as now you could use ffmpeg which is
kind of deprecated you can use em
encoder to put the videos together I
actually do you have Windows machines or
Linux machines y'all know but you know
we're because XP space in our work and I
can't afford to buy a new computer
windows 8 now so you might try using
something you know easy do you want to
get into some video editing or just
convert the videos that you're creating
because you might try open shot video
editor which is a free piece of software
for linux that is a nonlinear video
editor and you can place each of those
Clips within your timeline and then
export the whole video including all the
clips and that's a Linux piece of
software so that's something and i'll
put links in the show notes rep so
number 3034 you Jim yeah because I've
been trying to just I don't want to have
a fancy intro are you guys do but sure
to do it sure yeah give that a go i
think open shot is a really good
starting place and actually Krista and I
did a feature on it a little while ago
and you'll find it at Linux tech show
calm and that feature shows you some of
the ways to create title graphics and
things so you can create like a show
intro and and all that kind of stuff
might be a really good place to start
and I was just looking at Katie Katie
you here Jim and they actually have a
translation at the left hand side so
this is our viewer gym on the line and
he's recommending that we check this out
because the interface is is very much
like a classic linux and you can see on
the left hand side they've got a google
translate that lets me
heard everything to English what
language is the distro in by default
when you view it's in Portuguese
distribution page nazar is not listed I
see because they're not distributing an
English distributable or something ah
when you go into the actual program you
know you like just by the sign language
like to flag a nap yeah and you direct
you dragged English up to the top and
then you know ask for Amanda the
password that's for you yeah it looks
very much like that the distro that I
was just looking at except a little
classier a little bit early and all the
you know you had were you the registry
at it part like you said was like
windows that you downloaded yeah that
comes in with the package that comes
already installed okay yeah very good so
you don't have to install anything I see
we're running personal manager that good
manager open but didn't work so I had to
go into terminal and type and you know I
went online and it gave me the terminal
type going to get it to work yeah very
cool well thanks for the tip we'll have
to check that out and viewers if you
give a look at Katie you make sure you
you let us know so that we can let jim
know second second one you see not
debated but the second one you see down
there in the red yeah our before yeah
that'll take you to a storage porch that
length okay very good i'll post a link
to this in the show notes for episode
number 303 in the meantime it is linux
kdu xpcom i presume that is it's
basically designed as I'm saying with
Lynn spire kind of kind of an easy
transition for somebody who's using
Windows XP as you say Jim XP is at the
end of life if you're running windows XP
it's gone as of April so you not only
precise so it should be good for four
more years right so you need to find an
alternative why not here's the thing Jim
is that you can get your old hardware
working great with this because linux
will bring your computer back to life
and
to you know like you know this intron
gateway ones yeah so I knows that works
my old dell too good to give it a try is
that as it'll and it's a live CD I
presume yeah it's alive so you can
actually try it before you you know it's
all I'm is alive it won't be in English
you have to convert it right okay so if
you can find your way around Portuguese
which isn't that difficult I think
Portuguese is one of the easier
languages to follow as an
english-speaking person it's not too
hard to figure out your way around
especially if you've ever used linux
before are you you're going to put
together a video gym when you finish
that video can you send it our way and
we'll post it up for you and that will
help our viewers to we've we've lost Jim
but I know Jim is still watching the
show send us a copy of that video gym
and we'll be happy to post that to our
channels so that viewers who are
interested in checking that out will
learn how to switch that to English
thank you very much for the call cat
phone saves the day it's easier to talk
on the phone then to tie up all those
particular serious we don't have to wait
for your response fantastic thanks for
the call Jim I appreciate it and we have
email questions that have come in or any
questions in the chat room oh please and
a couple questions write the email inbox
this one's from a couple weeks ago do
you want to tackle sure yeah okay this
comes to us from kev oh hey Kevin and I
guess before he all just read what he
says it's kind of a follow-up question I
think to something else I managed to get
point Linux to work almost perfectly
thanks to your tutorial features however
whenever I'm using it to watch watch
video the monitor goes dim at regular
intervals just for tonight setting power
settings as per attached screenshot oh
he attached some screenshots not see it
is helpful very very helpful um even the
TV connected via HDMI goes dim I use it
in AC mode another issue i get is when i
connect the system to my TV via hdmi i
get audio from the TV as well as the
machine the last night right speakers in
twin view mode using nvidia
configuration utility if i leave an
absolute mode it seems to work properly
he sent another
screenshot okay try to bring use up that
okay there's one screenshot so that you
can see that okay we've got the twin
view work and the TV is connected
looking good we've got okay this is the
first thing I would have had you look at
your your power management so on AC
power never turn off the computer never
go to sleep but here's the thing under
display put display to sleep when
inactive or Never and set display
brightness to a hundred percent so and a
dim display when idle is unchecked so
that all seems like that should do what
you're trying to do right okay there's
more to the email i presume so yes this
is not a deal breaker for me because the
point linux is very fast compared to
søren or linuxmint that i was using
before you reviewed point linux but the
deming thing is annoying when watching a
long video okay thanks for the great
work that you do keval i'm happy to do
my best to help you out here I really am
enjoying point linux add this is we're
looking at a couple of different
districts today this is point linux this
is what I'm running on my system now and
it is beautiful it's modern its sleek it
does everything that you need it to do
but as he say it's going to dim your
monitor you've got it plugged into your
HDMI port so guess what happens when
you're watching a movie the television
dims as if it's going to screen saver
but you've checked everything off and so
why is it doing this because you've set
it up properly as I saw in the
screenshots there and our viewers at
home saw but if you do stuff like this
does that happen do you have things like
expo do you have things like cube or do
you have things like if I close a window
we're gonna woo Hillary here I know I'm
like there's my terminal and if I close
it Shia fire that's cool that is right
but what is that that's compiz fusion so
there's a little something that you need
to learn about your system now because
it is point linux its debian seven but
it looks like what gnome too but known
to is gone
it's deprecated it's been replaced by a
gnome 3 so what are we actually running
we're running mate the mate desktop
environment which is based on gnome to
point something ok so what's different
here is basically we used to go G
competitor right but guess what we've
got mate conf dash editor ok it's the
same thing as G competitor remember that
it's kind of like the registry for linux
but because we're running mate we need
to use this one so what I want to do is
I want to go apps and then go to comp is
under comp is you should see plugins go
there and see fade somewhere around here
there it is and go to your screen go to
options and you'll see something here
dim unresponsive is checked by default
you're not going to find a setting for
that necessarily in kompis config
settings manager so disabled that just
like that just an uncheck and it's done
so now that's not going to happen to you
anymore on ubuntu there's a couple of
cool to tools for example caffeine is a
pretty good one but it's not going to
work because it's not compatible with pc
with with our point linux the other
thing that we might try or other thing i
would say i would suggest is going to a
route terminal and from within that
terminal c where a root user now there's
a couple of commands that we're going to
enter and these are using the exit
command which is the user configuration
utility for x so i'm going to go x set
and you know what i'm actually going to
do is bring up a forum post here let's
see cat five dot TV / no SS for no
screen no screensaver ok cat5 TV / no SS
is going to take you to crunch Bangor
gets a linux distro with a helpful
community there the commands that i want
to use so we're going to use X set to
disable the DPMS that's the the power
management subsystem we want to use X
set to set your screensaver to use no
blank which means
not going to go blank and then set your
screensaver to power to off so that your
screen saver is actually disabled so i
can copy that whole command I think it's
a good thing to to do as well paste that
into my terminal or just type them
that's fine too and remember this as a
root terminal dun dun dun okay so what
that's now done is it set my system to
not use those things screensaver
basically that's a one-time thing if you
want it to happen after a reboot you're
going to need to set that up in a script
and have it auto start the setting that
we changed in comp is that's the one
that you're looking for and that is
going to be persistent so if you reboot
your computer it will still be sent okay
so I hope that helps cool thank you
thanks very much for the question what
else have you got for me well I was just
reading this one oh and I laughed to
myself at the end so i will read it to
you all hi Robbie and gang this comes to
us from Carl Cunningham hey Carl thanks
for answering my question about syncing
a key key pass X database across more
computers your suggestion of a boon to
one is exactly what I was looking for
when I said it and it seems to work
pretty well I want to create a file on
one machine it appears on all the others
that are st. that's pretty neat I'm
going to run it for a while sinking a
test folder to see how it goes I did
have an issue where it missed sinking a
couple of files it was when I was
testing by creating and removing files I
don't know why but after i deleted and
recreated files on one machine they were
against inked on it the others okay
right cool something to consider is that
if you delete a file from any of the
sink machines it almost instantly
disappears from all the others seemed a
bit scary until I read that a boon to
Juan just moves it to the trash thank
you very much for the follow up there
and we certainly are happy that that
suggestion is gonna work out for you and
he just has a little comment here for
Eric okay uh-huh it seems you may not be
familiar with the word kludgy that I
treat my last emails truth or maybe you
don't you do know what am I lousy
spelling through you on all the word nay
I do not we
we don't know it here so this is going
to be a learning experience for all of
us that he included a diff dictionary
definition for us to expand our
vocabulary thank you I thought there was
a question there I just skip to the part
about Eric if I see something about Eric
I want to read it so it might be good or
bad so that was just a comment but we
appreciate your emails all the same also
it's a it's a link to the word it's
pronounced like kludgy Brandi blue g is
that right okay let's bring up the des
about include glug glug glug G okay it's
very tricky Miriam dash webster com and
looking at your screen dictionary / it
looks like kludge looks like clutch to
me but it's kludgy uh oh it shows on
merriam-webster that it's it's a noun oh
I never liked an adjective to include G
kludgy that's what it says and it says
origin unknown first use 1962 and it
means a system and especially a computer
system made up of poorly matched
components clue gene we need to add that
to our vocabulary thank you very much
there's a noun and adjective you would
think that that would be something you'd
find in like like a not merriam-webster
like it's like it sounds like something
that would you like slang or something
yeah notice this is legit this is the
real picture Google's in the dictionary
now as a verb and noun that seems so
there you have it really big is not have
it all right we're a couple more minutes
sure here's a little something something
rotator lewis hey Peter it's a question
but it doesn't require help it requires
a yes or no answer oh did you know about
star rack a parody on Star Trek yes Iraq
Studios limited and rekha movie were
created by group of filmmakers from
Finland who in 2005 created the freely
downloadable star trek parody movie star
rack
it's another thing that that takes me
back yeah that was a while ago I watched
the perk inning I don't in the perk
inning star wreck yeah these these
finish movie producers like just a
mature people but really really good at
the special effects and stuff put this
thing together I think it was star rec
calm like that and it's literally just
it's like a parody movie but they are
great with the special effects and stuff
it's amazing I never heard of such as
you never heard of such a there's there
are so many fan movies and things out
there but it is in Finnish I gas but I
remember watching it back when it first
came out just because every Trek he has
to one-half to the well done fan fiction
stuff right yes so I didn't realize that
they were making more and doing more
than that what was the ragu VDOT crack
I'm movie.com there you have it so they
are doing more now more can't wait till
they do a twilight one what's with
zombies guys that's what I'd like to
know yeah I just saw zombie at a corner
of my eye what's the deal with zombies
not a zombie the word lobby I didn't see
a zombie I saw the words like we're in
the studio here zombies in here baby
yeah what's with that I'd like to know
what zombies that's what I what's with
the the vampires trend I don't know the
whole I mean I'm not a teenage girl so I
don't matter i'm still into it yeah you
are i mean i've read the book senting
all the moves really spot
I have to to stay current with it so
that you can carry conversations your
teenage girls I do and my line of work
you have to know what's going on I
watched the spoof trailers on youtube
they were brilliant really good spoof
trailers are fun cuz you get into you
know they'll do Star Trek and like the
the star trek 2009 movie we're in the
trailer it's like it's a movie where the
aliens are not the aliens that you
remember from Star Trek and it shows all
the clips where it's the guys in the bar
and stuff and they are they look more
like Star Wars aliens there's no
Klingons there's no anything until the
new movie but yeah those are fun we're
practically out of time I suppose we
have time for a really quick question if
there is one let me take a look-see this
is unquestioned an email but another
okay we got a lot to the comments stuff
which is cool because you're not hearing
from people we do no questions or
comment stories Sega's novelas whatever
will read it the whole chat room is
tired of the zombie thing by the way
okay especially alone a gamoto is sick
of zombies and autotune oh yeah we could
have a whole show what if they autotuned
aam beasts that's Heather suggestion
maybe we could actually take like a
zombie movie in autotune kid like get
the guys from auto-tune the news to do
it for us we should yeah brothers we
should just do like a bunch of things we
got a lot of things we could a lot of
stuff on the back burner for season 8
folks anyway it's one of those emails
we've got is a quick shout out to um
Robert Kosinski's sister oh yes her
birthday is on July thirteenth so happy
birthday Natalie hope you have a
terrific day from everyone here category
5 and from your brother and the entire
world the whole world is wishing you a
happy birthday tonight Natalie so hope
it's a good one mm-hmm she joins a July
club yeah of the birthday a busy month
hmm
yeah well that is all the time that we
have folks thank you so much for joining
us tonight we are online a triple w
category 5 TV make sure you follow us on
Twitter as well I'm at Robby Ferguson
I'm at Hillary Rumble I'm pretty sure
that's right i think that is me with the
double l's double Hillary double rainbow
yeah the way I remember it is rum ball
it is what it is I should look into mine
you actually incidentally brought me a
rum ball as a gift once i did and i will
never forget that run ball from rumble
thanks for being here folks and please
pop us an email this week live at
category 5 TV next week Abigail page is
going to be here in the studio a married
woman no one her Abigail Smith she will
be here joining me at category 5 we've
got lots of fun stuff planned for you
and this month is just going to be an
exciting exciting month so make sure you
check our calendar keep up to date with
our website category five dot TV it's
great to see you thanks for having me
guys being here it's been a slice and
we'll see you next Tuesday night seven
o'clock eastern time have a great week
right
we hope you enjoyed the show category 5
TV broadcasts live from Barrie Ontario
Canada every tuesday at seven p.m.
eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area at
category 5 TV and find out when you can
watch live and interact in the community
chat room category 5 is a production of
prodigy digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
