for those who prefer Linux or are simply
curious about Linux and other open
source technologies this is category 5
technology TV
welcome to episode number 281 of
category 5 technology TV it's februari
413 no it's the fifth it's the fifth it
is the fifth yes to the future have your
fist yeah how are you Sasha lead there
made us how are you great how are you
good good excellent hey everybody nice
to be back are you guys doing nice to
see in the chat room unfortunately
tonight we are unable to launch hangouts
we were hoping to be broadcasting live
on YouTube tonight unfortunately it's
not a go so if you depend on hangouts
make sure you tune in again next week
but this episode is available through
our website and of course will be
available on YouTube after the fact as
well so we've got some exciting stuff
going on tonight now we talking about
chocolate we're going to be talking
about all different tech stuff so if you
got anybody around that is not familiar
with how to use the internet things like
that you want to make sure that you tune
in to the show tonight he's gathered
around the computer TV from the roku box
miro internet TV the first run TV
whatever you're watching the show on
just had everybody with the iphone you
know that's right maybe maybe other kids
can hold the iphone in front you can all
watch it together happy that'd be nice
excellent now we have some stuff coming
up in the newsroom we have Amazon is
launching his own virtual currency meet
very cool 250,000 Twitter users info
info and passwords have been stolen by
hackers not so neat Dyson has unveiled a
water tap which contains a built-in hand
dryer sounds handy but um Bob Sony is
ending production of their mini disc
stereos and to that we say oh where they
still making those it's true Oh we'll
have a dog but Madison a little I didn't
even have a clue they ever existed to be
honest silly so there you
I was in radio so I know and now they've
stopped mmm design plans for 3d printed
buildings on the moon have been revealed
Sterling's now buildings on the moon
nice very nice buildings stick around
these stories are coming up later in the
show excellent oh no have you seen that
error message today couldn't load plug
in the linux users I know it's a dim but
there it is if you're seeing that
tonight there was a problem in google
chrome tonight today yesterday it kind
of kicked in but they had an issue where
flash they've started integrating flash
directly into the browser so you don't
have to install flash 0 separately but
it's not really flash per se it says
pepper flash so it's been causing all
kinds of havoc for linux users all
around the world so if you use chrome
and you're having that problem they show
you how to really really quickly fix
that so those in the chat room if anyone
shows up and says yeah peppers not
working or they won't say that they're
like why isn't what I'm working like you
know I should show why can't I get on
YouTube why can't i access things I was
trying to listen to music today through
chrome I go to show cast calm and I
clicked on one of the stations and of
course it uses flash at the bottom of
the the window to to actually play the
audio and it wasn't working it was
giving some kind of weird weird errors
and things even different from the one
that I just showed you there so all you
have to do is just you know what you can
just get into your you're like computer
hit ctrl L and go slash dot config and
in your config folder this is dot config
in the home folder of your user you're
going to see one called google chrome so
linux users if you if you're using
chrome and you can't get flash working
this is what you want to do get in there
and you see this folder now called
pepper flash you'll see that I've got 0
items in it now it is just a folder and
all you have to do is right click on it
and go move to trash delete it and then
flash is going to be working again for
you simple easy breezy easy yeah delete
I can do that so yeah until eat oh no
where to go
I feel a story there your backups
excellent hmm alright are in the show
yes don't forget about our mobile site
mcat 5 TV check it out scan that QR code
with that device it's a little awkward i
know because Billy's holding it and
everyone sitting around but make sure
you scan that get over 2m cap five dot
TV to watch the show you can catch it
live with many mobile devices so if
you're sitting in the car and you can't
make it home in time to pop the popcorn
and and watch the show live you can
actually pick it up through your your
iPhone or your Android device which is
how I always watch it yeah yeah should
be honest very hard except when I'm on
yes we've had that discussion but that's
really awkward it's like SAS look at me
attention she answers everything three
seconds late cuz there's a delay so
smart yeah all right category five dot
TV is a member of the tech podcast
network if it's tech it's here and
international association of internet
broadcasters session I saw you've got a
postcard here sure Tina from the
Barbados from Barbados beautiful right
there we go dear Robbie thank you for
your help with choosing an e-reader we
are very pleased to have attended your
fifth anniversary and we were one of the
lucky ones to win a prize great warm
sunny weather here in Barbados come to
visit us soon cheers from Isabelle and
John who obviously live in Barbados and
came all the way here for the fifth
anniversary show isn't it nice yeah so I
think that I should just go visit them
now and now that I know I'm glad they
want a prize sent them away with
something great i'm sure you ask thank
you very much for the for the postcard
thanks for watching the show nice to
have you joining us at our fifth
anniversary here in Barrie as well and
hope you enjoy mmhmm yeah and what was
that was that like a hint to an
invitation come and visit us soon that
is exactly it very well you would like
to invite us anywhere send us a postcard
yep the tour begin exactly this postcard
return address and we'll send something
back by way of us that's right oh you
live in Barbados
or Jim miyabi's on the door we're at all
we're talking about Dominican Republic
last week that would be all right too I
could handle that yes Australia would be
Ecuador would be good yeah New Zealand
even the UK i'd love to go to the UK
it'd be fantastic netherlands go see
some of our friends in the netherlands i
also would like to visit some of canada
to be honest yes newfoundland would be
good yeah invite me there i'd love to go
to Newfoundland I've heard I found a
station I was flipping through I found a
station that was playing a bunch of
music from Newfoundland and it was like
it's sounded very Celtic I was surprised
like it sounded like something from
Ireland or something yeah they're very I
think they're very Celtic Lee influenced
accept their screech which comes from
Jamaica their screech yeah they're
rather screech to get screeched in a
Newfoundland it's Jamaican rum turns out
oh it's a drink it is okay and you kiss
kiss offenders anyway I was 15 I was
literally was talking about music I was
picturing them like actually screeching
so yeah caltech play that that
particular radio station but hey you can
send in your postcard and we love to
receive it make sure you put your return
address so we can come pay a visit put
us up for the night category five
technology TV you can send that to p.o
box 29 009 Barrie Ontario Canada l4n 7w
7 very good well hey we've got an
excellent show coming up for you and
stick around we're going to have just
after the break we're gonna have Belgian
chocolate or master chocolatier I should
say Kevin Richards is joining us from
theobroma and we're gonna be talking
about how he's able to use some pretty
cool ways of using technology even
within chocolate making and really
that's just an excuse to get him on the
show and get under bring us some
chocolate truth be told here we go let's
dig around don't go away we'll be right
back at eco alkalines we believe you
should be able to trust your batteries
not just here but he
here here and here but with one
exception you should also be able to
trust your batteries here Eco alkalines
of the world's first and only certified
carbon neutral battery manufactured to
the highest standards of recycling and
quality without any trace amounts of
harmful chemicals like mercury lead or
cadmium eco outlines provide performance
that rivals leading national alkaline
battery brands at a comparable price
find out more about the Eco alkalines
difference eco alkalines calm
we're joined tonight by kevin richards
he's the Belgian master chocolatier from
theobroma and Kevin it's it's great to
have you here on the show and thank you
for the invitation this is a big honor
to be a part of this this is uh this is
really fascinating it's a neat place a
it's amazing so fun i love the sign
congratulations on that that's very cool
here's yes I'm was donated this week so
I've gotten quite the techie education
over the last few days since you and I
have met yeah checking out your web site
you've got some pretty amazing guests as
well until you get a pretty good history
yeah cheers I wanted to have you on the
show and kind of talk a little bit about
you know obviously valentine's Day is
coming up so people saying well
what'swhat's you know this is dec so
we've got chocolate coming on well guys
ladies leave the room because the guys
need to hear me right now so just a
second guys valentine's Day is coming up
we've got an opportunity to get you here
some very very fine chocolate for the
ladies yeah all right so if you want to
get in there good books this is what you
need to do you need to listen up we're
gonna have a little chat here Kevin and
I absolutely and have a little taste
test sasha is going to be our guinea pig
we're going to see how much the ladies
are going to love this and and we can
possibly send out some chocolates as
well absolutely so absolutely just in
time for Valentine's Day all right later
chick call the lady back yet yeah so
what you know theobroma is as your
company it is and you are a Belgian
master chocolatier which that's correct
I'm no chocolate guru okay but I I mean
I've heard the phrase and that to me is
that's a prestigious it is a pretty big
deal there's very few of the mom you
have to go through an actual chocolate
to your certification to actually
graduate from that which I graduated
with honors from that course and then
was allowed to then go to the next level
where I studied in allst in Belgium and
spent a week in allst with other Grand
Master chocolatiers and it was just
absolutely amazing the things we learned
how to do sculptures and how to make
pralines and it was it was pretty
impressive it was a lot of chocolate
yeah still didn't know check it out yeah
no yeah there's more such things like
what what kind of makes your chocolates
different I mean I've tasted them i know
it's exceptional stuff it's it's like
it's unlike anything that you've ever
before okay what is it about your
chocolate that really nice that how is
that working for it is working for Matt
the the funny thing is is when people
say chocolate is Belgian it's actually
processed in Belgium it there's French
chocolate their Swiss chocolate none of
the cocoa ever really originates in
Belgium so it actually will start in
either the Amazon rainforest where I get
my chocolate which is where the point
one percent of the world's finest
actually originates then there's the
ivory coast which is now producing about
eighty percent of the world's cocoa and
that cocoa I don't have you've ever had
to be a Jamaican Blue Mountain coffee
and tried to compare it to maybe a
Kenyan roast you know African sort of
coffee is very similar to an African
cocoa it's very bitter it's very strong
it's very it's almost he's burnt it's
got a very bark sort of taste whereas
something from South America is far more
floral fruity nutty it's far more
complex you can see it in the beans and
the pods those are Venezuelan cocoa
beans that's actually a cacao pod and
cacao beans inside that pod you'll find
about 20 to 30 of those beans they
actually then go to my cocoa doesn't go
to Belgium it actually goes to France
mostly because Belgium is now processing
mostly West African cocoa um so some of
the bigger name companies as well as
some of the people who only make
brownies and cupcakes are using the same
cocoa so to say you're a Belgian
chocolatier i'm using belgian technique
that i learned there right but i didn't
bringing me the belgian chocolate home
with me i actually choose a finer
chocolate that gets processed for me in
france and then sent back to me is
what's called a Calais or as a cocoa
powder and ice I understand that
everything correct me if I'm mistaken
but everything is done by hand
everything I'm doing is completely by
hand even the doting is not my hand is
the melting of the chocolate that's
that's in the tempering pot there but I
do hand make everything I hand make my
own caramel it's my own recipes
everything I do is right from scratch
it's been my own invention and I dip it
all by hand all created by me and that
makes me think about you know what
what's different about the taste of the
chocolate where do you get your recipes
and where does that kind of it took me
almost six months to actually get my
caramel
to be where I wanted it when I first
started making caramel my fiancé is a
chocolate junkie I'd like to call her
church junkie more more of a caramel
junkie I've got a treadmill seated in
front of the chocolate when she's
driving so when she tried my first
couple batches of caramel she would say
it's too salty it's to this as to that
and then after I'd educate her a bit on
her palate and saying something might
seem salty or something might seem sweet
a lot of people say oh I don't like that
chalk that it makes me thirsty it's too
salty oh well if you're saying it's
salty that's great a lot of people say
it's the sugar it's not the sugar it is
the salt it's the butter a lot of the
time in some of the fats are some of the
things that you make like caramel that I
should make you thirsty interesting yeah
there's a real process to getting your
palate to do what you want I do a an in
a scale and cabernet franc ice wine
truffle and I actually tasted over 40
different brands of ice wine to narrow
it down to the the ice wine that I chose
for the perfect pairing because some of
them were just too too fruity more of a
melon more of a more of a floral taste
and I had to really narrow it down a lot
of time sounds like I thought it was
really like it'sit's a bit there's a bit
of a almost a chemistry involved and
I've seen him set up and it's very much
it feels its pristine but very much like
you've meticulously planned out each
recipe well when I was in Belgium one of
the places we went to this guy named
chef Vaart who was considered the
world's most sensitive palate when it
comes to chocolate he said that he went
to a place in Ethiopia to go and check
out certain spices and one of the spices
he was checking out there I forget which
one it was but he said that there was
over 400 different variances of this one
spice and he tried them all to narrow it
down to the one he uses in his truffle
so we can actually discern he actually
glad meri that's funny because we went
through a tasting test with and where we
were tasting different things and he had
about 40 different kinds of 40 50
different kinds of cinnamon when I was
like okay cinnamon cinnamon really
there's what one sit him in the cinnamon
you stir in your apple cider like what
else is there and we got to really
expand on it and we some of it tastes
more like bacon than it did cinnamon
make it wasn't even sitting on the bacon
stop
bacon is really good job but bring it on
sounds good so I i mentioned that i'd
like to talk a little bit about the
technology and the technique now you are
making all these truffles and chocolates
in my hand yeah but there are some
intriguing ways that you're using almost
consumer like technologies in order to
take things to the next level I think
about the way that you're you're doing
designs and things if you could let us
know a little bit about that I'll you
know well about the process you shared a
little bit about it with me and I was a
little surprised that there's a
technology behind ready me how you're
doing it yeah well even simple things
like printing one of the things I've
managed to really get my grasp on has
been doing things for different
marketing different sort of levels for
things um as opposed to just social
media and trying to promote it that way
sure um it's been a very big deal for
corporate people and weddings to get you
know an image and definitely people are
working on their brand and one of the
things that I've been able to do is to
actually have a cocoa butter transfer
that I now print through a little epson
or a bubble jet printer and we actually
print onto a transfer sheet and on that
transfer sheet you can use an edible
well some people use an edible ink like
they do on birthday cakes you've seen
people put somebody's face on a birthday
cake for example that's an edible ink
it's a vegetable based ink mine is
actually made with the cocoa butter
we've got six different colors and it
goes through the lepton printer so I
could do a full color printer picture of
anybody's corporate logo whether it was
Facebook or category 5 and sort of
documenting onto a truffle if somebody's
getting married i could put kevin and
janine around it i could do it you could
print my head onto a perfectly round
truffle on it i could make your head
perfectly round just like that it would
been shines up make sure we shine up be
beautiful sounds great so these are
actually printer cartridges that are
going into a printer yeah that are
printing using cocoa butter instead of
ink yeah and it doesn't taste like
anything it doesn't have because cocoa
butter is very very tasteless it's not
like a regular cocoa it's not going to
have a strong hint of anything it's just
very it's not going to be invasive in
any way with the rest of the truffle so
it's not going to affect
character or the taste of the truffle
sure yeah you were mentioning how is
some sometimes garnishes and things like
white chocolate garnish yeah throw off
the people make in their truffles try to
be pretty and that's one of the things
that just makes me crazy as my truffles
don't necessarily look the prettiest
i've got a nice shine they've gone
through what we call tempering which is
kind of the most overused word in the
chocolate world's actually got to do
with crystallization but when it goes
through the tempering people will then
all of a sudden decorate their pretty
truffle with white chocolate so you've
made this beautiful dark chocolate
creation paired it perfectly with a nice
ice wine yeah then I'll sudden you
decorate it with what you've got white
chocolate in there in milk chocolate
well didn't you just spend that amount
of time pairing it to taste great and
now the first thing you taste is
throwing it off right it's like people
who put the salt of a chocolate for my
caramel for example I do have a
wonderful caramel and sea salt travel
but my sea salt is in the inside on the
bottom so what's the last thing that you
taste so it doesn't also balances it off
right it's got a nice finish you put the
sea salt on the outside like some people
do as a decoration right oh yeah well
it's the first thing you taste however
I'm doing it truffle that will come out
not this year but next year for cinco de
mayo which is actually got jose cuervo
gold mixed with a milk chocolate center
with a small piece of lime in the center
dipped in dark chocolate with a little
bit of salt on the outside and the
reason for that is liquor shoot suck so
you've got your salt chocolate with a
tequila and then the lime all one after
another Cinco de minds like a tough job
yeah small amounts of alcohol but loads
and loads of chocolates lots of
chocolate so we want to be able to get
our viewers a pack of these chocolates
yeah theobroma fine gourmet chocolate
truffles I mean just awesome stuff what
do you have available right now right
now I'll give you a quick rundown of
some of my favorite ones might my
favorite is always going to be my
enniskillen Cabernet Franc ice wine and
I just love that it's wonderful it's got
a nice finish my fiancee Janine just
loves her caramel and sea salt it's all
day long it's her favorite my kids love
my organic peanut butter truffle which
is uh it's what peanut butter supposed
to taste like it's a real peanut butter
it's not like that process sort of
plastic
commercial chocolate it's a wonderful
peanut butter and we make our own peanut
butter if we mix it up with the proper
oil so it's it's a wonderful nice finish
on that my newest creation that I've
really had a lot of fun with is my
peanut butter or sorry my root beer and
vanilla where we actually extract the
root beer from a source parrilla root
and combine it with Madagascar vanilla
that we extract from Madagascar even a
root beer taste from the room it tastes
like a root beer truffle or like a root
beer float with a chocolate but
completely non-synthetic completely real
do you use preservatives in year zero
and that's why the shelf life on my
chocolates I haven't really been able to
test it as long as I'd like because if
never had chocolate sit on a shelf for
Morgan few days so we actually had to
make a couple of pots of chocolate and
put them aside in little bowls and put
them all away and say okay we're going
to try this one every Friday and we're
going to come back and keep trying it
there was zero discoloration and zero
fade and in flavor in any of the
chocolates until almost a two month mark
so we've been pretty lucky very good
yeah cat five dot TV / yum head on over
there cat five dot TV / yum check them
out that's theobroma chocolates and
we're actually gonna be giving away a
box of these chocolates so anywhere you
are make sure here's what you need to do
soybean paste vision that's what ya do
because I want I want you to try this
folks but I mean get on there make sure
you order them before before Valentine's
Day get them in time what I want you to
do is get onto that website cat5 TV /
yum and on the website is the definition
or at least the the reason that you
chose the word theobroma for your
company so am i saying that raised with
you are seeing it perfectly the aroma
astok you know that's excellent so find
out what theobroma means according to
that website at Camp 5 TV / yum and
email me live at category 5 TV we're
going to give them a week to to get
those in so that those of you who are
watching this after the fact if you're
watching on first run TV or if you're
watching on miro internet TV or YouTube
you still have a chance to participate
in the contest as well if you weren't
watching live so get that to me we're
going to have a draw during episode
number 282 and
be sending you out that box of chocolate
is my compliments let's take a look at
the box itself perfect now I saw you
actually you even package these things
up by hand I do well you actually got
that up on your screen which is great so
I've showed off the the boxes i actually
had designed it was I couldn't believe
how quickly we managed to put this box
together when i first started looking at
the packaging end of it um it was it was
a pain because I the exact image of in
my head of what I wanted I had contacted
a place in the United States they told
me I could have the box for about six
dollars a box yikes and I was like six
dollars to make me a box they go how old
am I gonna have that as a markup on my
chocolate the chocolate was contacted a
place in Canada which you know I want to
shop local i want to buy local best he
can it was just a little over eight
dollars finished to my door per box for
a four pack of chocolates yanks
contacted a place in china i sent them a
sketch a sketch and then i had all the
AI format and everything else of the
actual artwork that I had my cousin
actually do for me I drew it all up he
didn't he nailed it sent it off to them
he told them where to hit it with the
lacquer and blah blah blah with the
shine three to six weeks later somewhere
around there i had the box in my hands
finished it was exactly what I wanted
exactly to the to the perfect they've
been fantastic i mean that's beautiful
and they need to do a food-safe ink
there was no technical anything they
just sent it back the only a ever had it
was the website to the back of the box
yeah and that was it very good oh it's
lovely and the chocolates are made right
here in burien operated said there is
this is a four pack of the hoops the ice
wine chocolates inside here you'll
insert of where the card of where the
chocolate comes from and how to eat it I
just realized that you're like a
magician there do you like that opt one
any just that is what's okay I got
another one here can you pull out a bird
watch people rabbit out of my hat yeah
well we need to try these yeah I think
we've got time before the news is what
do you think fashion is that sash is
pretty alright with that so what do you
recommend the Sasha well they're all the
same of these boxes right now I didn't
bring any of the other guys here once
today it's a good way Tom I am in my
milk chocolate production today yourself
oops alright there we go so Sasha this
is what we're gonna do there is she's
begging you for this chocolate right
thank me so here's what we're gonna do
this is the ice wine truffle so you can
unwrap it to really appreciate a truffle
you should take a look at it actually
undress the truffle here smell the
truffle you can actually taste taste it
through your nose you can actually get a
chocolate hint into your mouth just
through your nose if you do it properly
hopefully you're not congested and then
throw the whole truffle into your mouth
the ice wine will help with that yeah
the difference between a truffle and
something like a praline the proline the
north american version the protein is
their Laird yeah so you can bite those
because they're going to have the layers
go in this way a truffle for example you
create what's called a ganache so you
mix a heavy milk chocolate something
such as a maybe a forty or forty-five
percent milk chocolate then you mix it
with what's called creme fraiche which
is about a forty percent cream and then
you add in all the ice wine and whatever
else together so it's a combination if
you do something like caramel and sea
salt you could bite the first half and
only have caramel in the second half you
might only get salt and you've thrown
off the whole truffle so you have to put
the whole thing in your mouth you can
chew it chat room is just mentioned that
Sasha actually did that wrong she needs
to try again so we're gonna we're gonna
recon that a little bit later yeah Chad
all the other viewers are going she used
to do that again try again and type my
name well it is such a pleasure having
you here Kevin again cat five dot TV /
yum yep is where you want to go check it
out okay and make sure you let them know
that you heard of them here at category
5 TV as well when you order and don't
forget to cast your ballot send me an
email live at category five dot TV what
does it mean theobroma you got it Kevin
thanks for being on the show thank you
my pleasure tears will do the old
switcheroo here as fun as that is this
is category 5 technology TV and this is
episode number 281 you're safe to switch
you'll be okay yeah I'm happy leave
those here
many cars oh yeah we didn't he didn't
ask me anything about Hugh Connors he's
actually doing a sales entirely through
the website or at least you can go to
the website and actually order directly
there we didn't get into that you're
right but you can actually order
directly off the website using PayPal
and other any other payment methods as
well is it strictly paypal right now
looking at bean stream as well just to
throw me everybody I get on over there
to his website and you'll be able to
place your order Cheers Wow how is it
okay really really good Kevin thinker
okay need to get this show's over are
you ready for the news hmm oh yes
completely so here are the top news
stories from the category five dot
newsroom just a day after Canada pulled
its penny from production amazon has
announced they're introducing a new
virtual currency called amazon coins
it's billed as an easy way for Kindle
Fire customers to spend money on
developers apps in the Amazon Appstore
the company will introduce the currency
in May with tens of millions of dollars
worth of free Amazon coins to spend on
developers apps amazon will also make it
quick and easy for customers to buy the
coins with their accounts developers
meanwhile will make seventy percent on
every purchase with the rest going to
Amazon Wow so there we go next a quarter
of a million Twitter users have had
their accounts compromised in the latest
of a string of high-profile internet
security breaches Twitter's information
security director Bob Lord said about
250,000 users passwords had been stolen
as well as user names emails and data
yikes ouch affected users have had
passwords and validated and have been
sent emails informing them mr. Lord said
the attack was not the work of amateurs
he said it appeared similar to recent
attacks on the New York Times and Wall
Street Journal
Wow the US newspapers reported that
their computer systems had been breached
by china-based hackers hmmm there you go
I guess it's happened to you you already
know right us already found ya notified
people and change their passwords
exactly Proactive that way I'd like to
know why they're holding unencrypted
passwords though I mean technically that
there should be no way for somebody to
obtain passwords that seems a little odd
but it's not the work of amateurs so
maybe not the work not the work of
amateurs somehow they're able to reverse
md5 checksums with hashed and salt I
don't know somehow British engineering
group Dyson has a nun unveiled a device
that combines a high-speed hand dryer
with hot and cold water outlets the
firm's founder Sir James Dyson said that
the device offered long-term savings
over hot air dryers and towels that is
neat however one expert said it its
appeal might be limited until its costs
fell the air blade tap costs around
1,000 pounds let's bounce right yes yes
hokie doodle take a long time to pay
that yeah to make a paper towels are not
that expensive thousand pounds worth
Bochy the machine consists of a unit
place underneath the sink containing a
motor an air filter and and sound
silencing equipment a pipe that carries
the water electronics and heir to the
tap and a stainless steel head unit from
which the water flows an unheated air
jet water flows and unheated air jets
out at 430 miles per hour boy infrared
sensors detect where the users hands are
if placed under the tap center water
comes out wait if placed under the tap
center water comes out if placed at its
sides the air nozzles air and nozzles
are triggered whoa I feel like it's a
good thing you told us this because I'm
looking at that I think if I ever saw
that in bathroom I would have no clue
how to use it so now we know air jets
out at 130 30 miles an hour stick your
cookies still put your hands there it
will blow a hole through your hand be
careful folks oh
seriously hmm okay what's next sony next
sony has announced it is to deliver its
last mini disc stereo next month it
marks the end to the firm support for
the system which it launched in 1992 um
I hadn't heard about it mind you haven't
heard about you needed heard about it
really Heather shaking her head what is
that blue thing ah so the format only
ever had limited success outside of
japan and was ultimately doomed by the
rise of recordable cds and mp3 players
that's the problem i have not been to
Japan but we had them here in Canada of
course and Heather shaking her head I
can't tell if she's never heard of it or
if she's just like Sony you blew this
one but here's the thing I mean I had
one of these we all had one of these in
radio because when we're doing
interviews and things when you're
getting news bites and sound bites what
was neat about it you've got this disc
and you put it in this device and you
plug a microphone into that device which
is the size of you know about three or
four inches square knot cubed it's very
very thin and it would record in CD
quality so it's just a little tiny thing
with a double of double a battery and
you could just go around doing
interviews with this cheap little thing
that's like 130 bucks there's a failed
technology because nobody bought it oh I
didn't realize they were still making it
you still have a month yes so hey
everybody here's a last one go buy it
now it won't be supported a month from
now you won't be able to get any discs
for it by the discs they said that they
would be good for 30 years and they're
not the discs apparently can fail just
like CDs and floppy disks did hmm
disappointing Sony so i iterate what
Heather said okay next all right
architects foster and partners have
revealed designs for a building on the
moon that could be constructed from
materials already on its surface there's
basically a lot you can see the
lumbermill over the this this is a big
deal an inflatable structure would be
transported from Earth then covered with
a shell built by 3d printers the
printers operated by robots would use
soil from the
known as regolith possibly known as
regolith to build the layered cover
that's actually the robot there that was
a person the proposed site for you the
proposed site for the building is the
southern pole of the moon it is designed
to house for people and can and could be
extended it's designed to house it would
make a great studio well the
broadcasting of those house for people
or stl would be like millions wow I
wonder how many people want to move to
the moon it looks a little bit like an
igloo from it looks like we're kind of
looking at it from the back side and
that's the entrance over there by the
Android man quick like a Geo dome like
those house structures that you see that
are like earthquake proof right kinda
yeah what I eat about the idea and and
it sounds like they're actually going
forward with this particular one of
course like 3d printers are it's a
astounding the things that we were
talking about chocolate mm-hmm talked
about last time you were here 3d printed
chalk I get all the chocolate shows we
do chocolate but here is an opportunity
for them to just send a little bit of
stuff to the moon refine the stuff
that's on the surface of the moon right
there while they're there user regolith
yeah they're regular it's crazy the
company has already begun developing the
needed printer and hopes to be ready to
start production by 2020 amazing get the
full stories at category 5 TV / newsroom
the category 5 TV news room is
researched by roy w nash with
contributions by our community of yours
if you have a new story you think is
worthy of on-air mention email newsroom
at category 5 TV for the category 5 TV
news room i'm sascha through made us
thanks Sasha tonight's show is brought
to you in part by quarter eee electric
if you need any electrical work done in
in central ontario give them a call its
quarterly electric com for all their
info also get your free trial of netflix
it's a full month's trial gives you
enough time to watch several movies and
get into some shows really get a feel
for how netflix works and see if you
love it
cat five dot TV / Netflix I heard it I
heard a voice that I didn't know had
come in is there somebody extra here
Rachel shoe is here joining us I don't
know if you can wave to those on
backstage pass but say hi did did Rachel
shoe get to try one of those chocolate
truffles ah that needs to be arranged
here we go we asea broma chocolate
truffle here we are fantastic yeah me um
good to say probably need more chocolate
here here you know while Robbie's
talking Robbie why don't you talk about
backups why you can't trust was talking
to you just before the show and thinking
about I was just talking about the the
mini the many discs that they had Sony
had and the problem with them is that
they're not reliable and and the truth
is also there for CDs have you ever
backed up anything to CD or dvd no you
haven't no you with from the smirk she's
like I've never backed up a thing we
talked about backing up remember unlike
my second show no I stopped turning my
computer on I actually have a safety
mechanism in computers I don't turn it
on it can't possibly crash this is why i
watch category 5 on my phone I've
mentioned it before that that CDs DVDs
rewritable media it's not a reliable you
really want me to change camera angles
here done she's holding the truffle to
her mouth and then oh you sobbing is
talking to me folks at home ladies and
gentlemen the cds dvds flash media it's
not a reliable medium in order to do
your backups I mean I've I have burnt
stuff to DVDs and then come back to them
two years later and they don't work and
that's because of the way that CDs DVDs
actually hold the data you think that
it's a permanent storage mechanism but
it's actually not because it's so
susceptible to to heat and cold and
fluctuations in temperature that way to
movement and light and things like that
so so just to demonstrate that I
actually actually took a CD and I did
this as a little bit of an experiment
and i created a CD in 2006 and I labeled
it here as such that I actually did this
in 2006 and I burnt it to a max L deep
CDR and you know as good as any CDR is
that's what they are and then here we
are in 2013 and I ran a test so here we
you know it's it's seven eight years
later kind of thing and you'd expect
that that stuff is okay but if you're
backing up usually when someone backs up
something to cd/dvd they're thinking
these are family photos that I want to
clear off space on my computer so I'm
going to burn them DVD and then I'm
going to delete them and put the DVD in
a safety deposit box little do you
realize that seven years from now you're
probably not going to be able to read
that stuff so I actually put that into
my system in Linux and I did try to do a
copy a DD copy just to show you what
would happen DD is a way to copy from a
disk and you'll see that continually
repeatedly all that I got from that disc
was input output error and as I scroll
through the file nothing but input
output error 7.8 Meg's 11 Meg's and data
corruption on that disk now if I plug
that disk into a Microsoft Windows
computer it simply would not read if I
plugged it in the linux it would read
but then as I try to access the files it
would crash so those kinds of mediums
don't trust them for your your backups
if you're going to be saving some space
on your computer make sure you've got a
reliable type of back up a hard drive
with redundancy so two hard drives are
really you know and having multiple
different types of ways of storing your
data so if I put something on a DVD
that's all fine and good it may work
seven years from now but it may not so I
should really have it also on a hard
drive on some other storage media as
well so
alright if anybody has any questions in
the chat room for us tonight we'd love
to have you message sashes there she's
gonna think it's about chocolate I am
responding chalking sat yeah like what
else do I know about the chocolate we're
gonna fire up a virtual machine here and
tonight we're going to actually look at
some very basic internet usage and the
reason I wanted to do that tonight is
because we have so many people who you
know we've got such an eclectic mix of
viewers we've got those of you who are
quite well versed at using the computer
and you know you're using linux and
you're hacking away and your and your
learn any way around and do them very
very well that way and then we actually
have people who have never used a
computer before surprisingly who come to
us and say okay well i just bought my
first laptop and honestly it took me by
surprise the first time that happened
because just like seriously like this is
in 2011 2012 2013 and you've never used
a computer before in your life granted
usually seton seniors like people who
you know grew up in a completely
different generation have never used a
computer because it's never been a part
of their lifestyle and and and the way
that their society grew up so admittedly
that's that's usually who we're talking
about so when you go into a store and
you buy a computer typically what does
it come with unfortunate doesn't come
with linux right it comes with Windows
Windows 7 at this point and
progressively we're going to start
seeing those eight more and more so I'm
going to actually log into windows seven
so that you can see what this looks like
and I've taken the liberty of just
installing a few different browsers here
for those of you who are unfamiliar with
how the internet works and tonight we're
just going to take a real quick look at
the very most basics of internet usage
and I would encourage you to email us
live at category 5 TV with your
questions if you're new to the internet
if you ever find that you're just
overwhelmed I mean there's even that
case where you're just trying to use
your computer and you're not too sure
how it works and so you click on the
wrong thing and all of a sudden that's
you know something else is gone or you
can't find your email you can't find
this or that I know that it's a case you
know with multitasking where you know if
I bring up a browser and it
covers my screen well how do I get back
to the other the other window so we're
going to really simplify for you make it
easy for you to understand and hopefully
be able to help you to understand how
your computer works a little better and
we going to be doing that through the
course of this series which we're
starting tonight so so I've actually
taken the liberty of installing three
what are called web browsers and we
should understand what the internet is
and and the internet is not internet
explorer the internet is not chrome or
firefox the internet is an actual way
that many many computers communicate
together so think of it you know there
used to be called the the information
superhighway right you don't really hear
that too much anymore but it's a good
comparison where where the Internet is
really this this massive freeway of
roads that are interconnected and and if
you follow the right Road you end up at
the right place but whether you're
driving a Toyota or whether you're
driving you know a Chevrolet it doesn't
really make a difference to your use of
the internet or the highway and so if
i'm using linux or windows or if i'm
using firefox or internet explorer those
things are not the internet the internet
is the communication between all of
these different computers so so when
somebody says ok we'll bring up your
your web browser what they're talking
about is bringing up internet explorer
or mozilla firefox or google chrome
depending on what you use now because
we're on a Windows 7 computer which
comes with internet explorer we're going
to pretend you know most likely that is
on your system somebody who cares about
you may have installed something better
but internet explorer is definitely
going to be a part of your system if
you're using Windows so when I click on
that it's a little bit overwhelming
because out of the box it's got all this
stuff I mean I've got credit card
advertising I've got all these kind of
you know it doesn't look very it's a
little overwhelming it's busy it's busy
sometimes it's offensive in and it's
it's not you know it's just okay well
what do I do now if you were new to
computers it would be immediately
overwhelming well now i'm on the
internet right I clicked on internet or
Internet Explorer so now what do i do
and somebody tells me okay well now I
want you to go to category 5 TV because
that's this great TV show that's going
to hell
you to understand how to use your
computer so okay well it's flashing here
so I'm probably going to put in category
five dot TV as they said and then what
do i do i'll probably you know hit enter
and where does that take me well i
thought it was supposed to take me to
category five TV but it didn't it gave
me instead of a list of a whole bunch of
things what this is is this is not
actually our website this is this is
called a web search so when i typed it
in here I wasn't actually going to our
website I was just doing a search when
somebody says to go to a website if it's
google.ca or if its category 5 TV
they're talking about this address bar
which is up at the very very top usually
starts with HTTP which is the protocol
it doesn't really matter to you but it
always has a website address and you can
change that to take you directly to
wherever you want to go now it's ok to
do a search because if I know what I'm
searching for I've done a search for
category 5 TV and luckily my website the
the television show comes up first and
so you're safe to click on that and it
will get you there but the thing is is
what's the next one the next one is
about a large format digital printer the
next one is a hurricane shutter system
so if four then we're unfortunate and it
doesn't lead us to the right place we
could end up somewhere absolutely off
from where we wanted to end up and then
it can become overwhelming because the
Internet is huge place there are 80 2500
results when I did a search for category
five dot TV so that can be very very
overwhelming so instead it's good to use
the address bar and I'm going to show
you how to do that so up at the very
very top here of your web browser we're
using Internet Explorer right now i can
if i click once it's going to all be
highlighted if i accidentally click a
second time then when i start typing
it's actually going to go in and leave
all the other stuff so i can actually
highlight this whole thing or an easy
way is to click three times really
really fast so watch what I do click
click click and it highlighted
everything ok so now i can type category
five dot TV into that area hit enter and
it instantly takes us to two
the television website for category 5 TV
similarly if that was google and you
wanted to get to google you would type
in google.ca if you're in canada and it
gets you there and that is another
search engine okay so that's internet
explorer let's see what it looks like
somewhere else let's go into mattila
firefox so this is a different browser
again we're not changing the internet
we're just using a different program to
access it and you'll see that it's
pretty similar it doesn't have the same
clutter but it does have an address bar
which we've just learned about and it
has a search so if i search i'm going to
get a similar kind of result as to what
I had on Internet explorer it's going to
give me a list and fortunately again
we're the first one in the list so we
will end up at the right place if i
click on it but the other concern is is
that if somebody malicious came up in
that list and they were pretending to be
category 5 TV you might accidentally
click on that and get into the wrong
place and provide some kind of
information to them that you don't want
to provide so again we're going to use
the address bar up at the top category 5
TV hit enter and it takes us immediately
there there it goes so that's firefox
google chrome is another popular browser
we're just looking at three tonight and
you'll see right off the bat there's a
search and there is an address bar up at
the top if you have multiple of these
kind of areas up at the top like firefox
for example has an address bar at the
left and a search bar at the right the
one that you want to use for your
addresses is the one that says go to a
website or it may have an address
already there if you're on google free
for example it will say WWE google CA so
to use a search effectively so for many
of those browsers now that we know the
difference between the address bar at
the top and the search which is usually
a part of the website that we're looking
at this is google or some browsers as
you see up at the top right of your
screen there have searched built into
the browser at the top with the search
this is this is a little bit different
because we're not going to actually type
in a web site address when you have
somethings business
it has their website address it'll say
WWI business com whatever it happens to
be and that will take you right there if
you put it into the address bar on the
other hand if you don't know the website
address that's when you want to use the
search so this is where we would say
okay I don't know the name of this
television show but I've heard that
there is a show called category 5 i
started typing and it already started
doing it space and oh look it's already
given me the name technology TV and if i
hit enter then i can see the results and
it gives me oh ok well there's the
address it is actually category 5 TV or
similarly now let's let's make it even
tougher for the search engine let's do a
technology TV let's just search for that
and this will now we happen to be number
one for that result as well but let's
see if we can get a good example will do
tech TV so then we're competing against
tech TV the old network television
channel so then you see we're actually
at the bottom of the page so if you
clicked on the first result we would be
that you'd be in the wrong place this
isn't us at all this is a Wikipedia
article it's like an encyclopedia on the
internet that tells us about this tech
TV television channel so then I need to
scroll down on my search results I need
to find out which one is the right one
and I realize okay well this is the one
because this one says free tech TV
broadcasting featuring broadcast
featuring linux open source cool gadgets
and more so I know okay well this is the
one I was looking for when I did a
search simply for tech TV and I click on
it so if you're searching for a company
you can search for the company's name
you can search for keywords which are
you know things that the there we used
keywords techtv some things that it's
about and you might be able to find it
on the list you may have to go to the
next page next page we happen to be on
the front page but that's that's because
we do quite well in the search engines
but so with the website address though
when you have that you can actually get
right there in the
resp our direct link is there I guess
there's pros and cons of each one I'm
seeing in the chat room there are people
who prefer chrome versus for the
effective browsers yeah and we're
keeping things pretty simple tonight for
those of you who you know that we really
want to help you to understand the
differences between where the address
bar is in the search bar and and really
get into the basics the fundamental use
the internet is very important that you
understand that's because I want to I
want you to find your way around and be
able to find what you're looking for on
the internet and actually get to where
you want to go so then getting a little
bit more technical yeah they're there
will be you know many different people
will say well chrome is better than
internet explorer they will say motel
Firefox is better than internet explorer
they will say that a bag of flaming poo
it's better than internet explorer they
will say that there there you go that's
sort of what's up yeah there we have it
then you're just getting into yeah those
are the different features and that's
why I say if somebody loves you and
cares for you and is going to take good
care of you they'll put something else
on there for you Internet Explorer is is
probably the most dangerous in a browser
to use as far as like getting online and
and surfing around yeah need to be
really really careful and if you
accidentally click on the wrong site
boom all of a sudden you're infected and
somebody's got your credit card
information and that's it's scary Sony
which takes me to the next discussion I
wanted to have with you which which kind
of involves what's called phishing scams
have you ever heard of that I have heard
of that yes legal petition no I I got
I've got several emails some of them
angry some of them kind of nice saying
you can't get phishing scams on linux
you can't get fished mm-hmm that's
that's what I have heard from many many
people and and unfortunately that
symbolizes a misunderstanding of what
fishing really is and you know I'll keep
this simple as well for you a phishing
scam what it is is somebody who tricks
you into giving them their information
if I had a perfect Robbie costume and I
came up to you and I said I'm Robbie can
I borrow five bucks
you can probably loan me five bucks
because I'm Robbie you recognize me and
you know who I am you know I'm good for
it right right I tricked you because I'm
not Robbie at all I am alone suck ahana
right so if you had the reference then I
love you the that's what fishing is
somebody who tricks you I got a letter
today this isn't on the computer ok so
do i need to have windows in order to be
susceptible to this no not at all this
is a letter they got in the mail fishing
letter I got a fishing letter let's open
it up we had we did an interview with a
guy who was talking about phishing scams
on facebook and and that's sort of
opening that brilliant look at how
professional this looks this looks
really serious stuff it looks government
seems got fine print on the back what
does it tell me my domain bald nerd com
is due for renewal of course it is yes I
know it is as februari 25th as a
courtesy to domain name holders we're
sending you this notification of the
domain name registry that is due to
expire in the next few months when you
switch today and it goes on and it gives
me the pricing pricing to renew my
domain isn't forty dollars for one year
seventy dollars for two or a hundred and
sixty dollars for five years which it
lists as the best value so me I ok I've
got a domain and this is just an example
this is a letter that I received today
this looks entirely legette how it has a
spot for me to fill out I know that I
okay I need to have my domain how do you
know that it's not legit because I know
and now you know this is the domain
registry of Canada they are scammers so
watch out for this if you own a domain
and never receive this this is a
phishing scam a classic male phishing
scam they even give me a return envelope
so that I can make it real easy so what
am I going to do oh well yeah I've got
this domain oh they're going to give it
to me for
a hundred and sixty dollars for five
years that's a fantastic deal so I'm
going to fill in my credit card
information that's what it's asking for
I'm going to put in my total amount
which is 160 I'm going to put it in the
self-addressed envelope that they gave
me notice that I am NOT on windows and I
just sent them my credit card
information which they now own my domain
and I've lost it so they can turn it
into a search engine or porn site or
whatever they want to do it's not mine
so that I I can't you see it's easy to
be scam then it is very easy because
things look real yeah that's the thing
doesn't matter if you're on Windows
doesn't matter if you're on linux or mac
they look real because these people are
professional i was on facebook and i saw
this message in one of my friends
timelines and it said I saw you in this
video on Facebook who posted this of you
skip to video skip the video to 144 type
in with no spaces and search for your
name on and it has a URL but it's not
clickable you have to actually type that
in on your computer so the person thinks
nothing of it and they actually type it
into their computer but when they do
that it it redirects them and it looks
exactly like well it's Facebook but what
happens when you click on a link that
requires you to log into Facebook what's
the first thing that you do you log into
Facebook because something about that
link you're used to it requires you to
be logged in to your Facebook account
right its password protected so what do
i do without thinking about it I enter
my Facebook credentials and I hit login
but it fails well why did it fail I
entered my right username and password
well what's actually happening there is
it sending your username and password to
the Fisher the hacker if you will
they're collecting that information how
do I know this look at the URL
right remember we learned about the
address bar so the address bar also
serves to protect us so do I need to be
on Windows to accidentally give my
facebook username and password to
somebody no this is Linux Mac my iphone
my android device doesn't matter what
you're using you're still susceptible
that's fishing and that's what's so
scary about fishing because a virus
scanner won't stop you from getting that
kind of stuff a virus scanner won't stop
this from coming in the mail it takes
knowing and being very very cautious
about what what you fall for and what
you follow up with and that's you know
one of the reasons that the show is here
too if you ever doubt if you ever get
something you're not sure send us an
email live at category 5 TV forwarded
over to us and we'd be happy to take a
look at it for you and and find out if
it's if it's real yeah so thank you
there again thanks everybody that's
literally I mean it's hard to believe
that that's all the time that we had
tonight but any questions quickly in the
chat room for us um yes um do we ship or
to Kevin this Kevin not we shipped
internationally that was a major
question in the chat room yes all right
there you go so don't forget you can win
a box as well camp 5 TV / yum find out
what theobroma means an email live at
category 5 TV but definitely I mean with
Valentine's being so close don't wait
for the for the freebie that might be
coming your way because you're one in
60,000 people but make sure that you are
one of the people to go to the website
and actually make a purchase today so
thanks everybody for being here tonight
yes thank you thank you oh good
chocolate you're welcome yeah yeah
anytime
yeah yeah we have you know people who
know people okay Kevin thank you very
much for being here Heather Rachel wave
to the cameras and everybody have a
fantastic week and of course we'll be
back next week with you and make sure
you check out our website triple w
category 5 TV hope you had fun tonight
sasha always great to have you nice to
be here soon yes all right yeah
hope you enjoyed the show category five
key be broadcast live from Barrie
Ontario Canada every tuesday at seven pm
eastern if you're watching this on
demand or through cable TV check out the
local show times in your area a category
five TV and find out we meet you watch
drive and interact in the community chat
where category five is a production of
quantity digital solutions and is
licensed under creative commons
attribution 2.5 canada we'll see you
next time thanks for tuning in
