welcome back this is category five
technology TV find our website at
category five dot TV joined tonight by
Shizue Yamaguchi of course sash is here
as well but she zoo was here about a
year ago and talked to us about them is
it Marie Kondo the Mari a condo matter a
art of tidying up it has certainly had
an impact on my household the
organization skills of my wife and she's
tried to push these these lessons that
she's learned on me I am okay I'll admit
it
have you ever done a google search about
being disorganized
I have never googled being disorganized
because this changed I figured I was
already real life we have the book my
wife even bought the manga version so
that so that the kids can read it maybe
you can also read it okay so this is how
long do I have
we've got about 25 minutes okay so you
want to quickly recap what is this yeah
so last year I came on the show and I
had read this book the marry a condo
it's called the konmari method and the
book title is called the life-changing
magic of tidying up and the basic
proposition of yeah the basic
proposition of this book is that you
should get your act together and clean
your stuff up however in a very specific
manner so that everything you keep is
something that you feel a feeling of joy
and magic and this feeling of just like
wow this is the greatest thing ever so
you go through the through your shirts
your pants your everything your books
your personal belongings everything you
own basically you put through that
filter and it's not witchcraft this is
like
I'll go through I've gone through its it
sounds a little heebie-jeebie when it's
like oh the you know is it magic is
about joy I go through my cupboard in my
closet and I okay I lost some weight a
year ago
yeah I'm still losing weight and there
are shirts that when I put them on I
feel ha ha ha and I feel like I feel
really disgusted with myself so I'm like
I need to get rid of these shirts
because they sparked that feeling yeah
when I put them on and and if they're
the only thing that's clean I will put
them on and and so I don't I don't want
that so get rid of them replenish my
well ok robe so it's a very interesting
it's an interesting topic and I've been
thinking a lot about it since I had the
opportunity to actually apply this
method to my computer so maybe I'll just
get started on that first because this
organization systemization it worked
really well with my computer I do have a
caveat on the method and I think it's an
important one because it helps me to
better embrace being disorganized in
certain aspects of my life and I think
it's just an add-on maybe like an
addendum to the book at the back maybe
you know like a Asterix being
disorganized is actually a sign of maybe
a sign of something else great actually
[Laughter]
so let's go through the process so we'll
go through this application to my
computer so have you have you taken what
you learned and applied those principles
now to the technology that you use yes
this specifically something that's
talked about in the book it's not really
talked about in the book but I know that
last year when we spoke about this
method you asked about you know how does
this apply to computers or you know I
think Sasha you actually had a question
about you know would you scan every
you really loved and then put it onto
your computer somewhere and I didn't I
don't know if I had the best answer for
that however computers are very I mean
they're interesting things I mean they
have different facets you can put in a
million documents into your one terabyte
computer I guess right I do have a
Windows computer at home and it does
have that capability and I actually
would have applied it to my my Windows
PC however I really don't have to have
so much space it's just it's so
straightforward you just type whatever I
need a bigger closet not really well
maybe maybe what may do you think about
doing it on your Mac is it doesn't have
as much space um you know what it was I
just had some free time and I was like
hey let's just see what happens if I
organize this in a way that's a little
bit more streamlined okay I can't wait
to learn this so I'm gonna switch over
to your MacBook I'm just so the viewers
at home can see what what you're showing
here yeah
all right so say hello to my favorite
band member of The Strokes
Julian Casablancas he's being a little
unfriendly my apologies so this is my
opening screen and usually with max in
general they have this doc thing at the
bottom and what I did was usually
there's the doc has a long line of a
bunch of things that you can keep on
there but what I did is I minimized it
to the two things that I need so chrome
is on there and finder was it finder you
can't get rid of so the trash crazily I
actually just went through my trash
today in preparation for this oh yeah
because obviously you know you want to
keep your computer apropos you know do
you know what personal documents showing
up so anyway I emptied my trash and
there were 60,000 items
Wow that I deleted look you already
decided that this was garbage oh yeah
I'd put it into my trash I've only had
this computer for a year and I don't
know how I had so much damage but I went
into like okay I can literally open them
out my trash right now and there's a
screenshot that's it nice but anyway I
was like 60,000 okay all right so let's
begin at the beginning so I decided
since finder was there I decided to
optimize it so usually and this
information this this concept transcends
the MacBook to Linux Windows it doesn't
matter what type of computer I use yeah
the concepts that she's who is teaching
us today are hopefully gonna work their
way to my Linux desktop as well yeah so
I basically just wanted to make my
computer mine how I use it what I use
the most and so what I did is I just
minimized minimize minimize and I
thought about what elements I use the
most so I just made it the most useful
computer for me and the benefits in this
I'll just say this up front mmm my
battery life my battery life my battery
life is actually improved quite a bit
really that's just a subjective thing
but you know how you always it because
of programs that are not running in the
background is but I feel like optimizing
your usage of it somehow I don't and it
definitely wasn't because of all of the
items that I had on it because I just
deleted those documents right in the
trash yeah today so maybe it's
subjective but I really like plugging it
in I just don't do it I don't think I'd
do it as often as I used to and I had
had my computer since last June so I
think it's a pretty decent you know
comparison right I see things like Skype
on your screen for example yes and Skype
is not in the dock bar so I presume that
means it's not actually running it's not
which means it's not using battery
Yeah right okay so basically what I did
here is I I set it up so that it opens
up on the applications and I named I
renamed I tried to find a way to put all
of the most used applications that I use
up front and center okay and I really
tried to minimize as much as possible
and I would have put so this is my
organizational system so I movie I named
one Photoshop I named one one okay so is
this just so that they'll organize
themselves alphabetically on your screen
so that they'll show up first so the
first thing that happens when I click on
applications is I'll see one one one one
on one and it was an airy it's binary
done like a one zero one two that have
been a little fun alternate a little bit
yeah yeah you know what that was that
was really good and I think I had to
figure out what the system was for max
and how they organized it cuz I think a
didn't work okay for some reason or one
the ones just worked better so anyway
those are the four the five most used
applications that I do use I would have
put so there's iMovie Photoshop word
GarageBand that should probably be
higher now actually and Skype and System
Preferences is where all the magic
happens I would have tried to name that
with some one combination to get it up
front but they wouldn't allow me to
change that okay so that's one of the
maybe faults in the system however it
might not be a good idea to actually
lose track of System Preferences right
right you're relying almost exclusively
on the icon itself like the Photoshop
icon is how you recognize that it that I
I or one one is oh yeah for sure for
sure yeah yeah
but yeah if you can imagine what Apple
thinks about when they name when they
allow naming or don't allow naming
renaming if you were to lose System
Preferences somehow you named it like
Bing bong bang or something like that
like right that would not be good
because if you were trying to change
some kind of setting that was important
you would not know where system
preference was right okay so this is the
thing that I kind of liked I went
through adjusted the dock you know
minimized some of this stuff I
experimented with the dock I don't know
how familiar are you with Max oh well
it's very similar to Linux in that you
know with Linux like this to me looks
like met a with with a dock bar okay so
pretty pretty much the same and it seems
very cool do they have so basically the
dock bar can be minimized it can do this
I'll show you scale effect genie effect
if I come out of here
there are many different things you can
do with the dock so you can actually
position it in different places oh okay
so I experimented with that I
experimented with the size as well I had
it like this big but that was a little
too much what else did I do
I tried doing the automatically hide and
show dock feature as well yeah so this
is a feature and I'll just change the
size of it and make it big so you can
kind of see what happens so this allows
you to use the full screen and anytime
you need it you just mouse over and it
like it shows up for you I don't like
this and I don't know why but that just
was my preference I personal preference
because I don't know I can't immediately
see where it is and it's kind of
annoying to have to do two actions
instead of just one I just on a Windows
machine there's a Windows button that
brings up your Start menu is there
anything like that on a MacBook that you
know yeah not really
no yeah yeah that would be ideal you
could probably search for programs just
like you can search for programs just
like you can as well I just fix this
back okay so moving on this is actually
the one feature that I actually really
like date and time yeah this is kind of
a feature that's just kind of fun I
think so every quarter hour you can
customize a voice to tell you the time
so please hear out there's different
voices you can choose there's Karen
or Fiona yeah I asked my favorite is the
youth system voice which is not a very
nice or like what's in a name
I guess you systems by my voice so it's
telling you something it's it's you're
hearing a voice
let's hear Karen name is Karen so they
have a natural this is your clock
instead of having a clock on the screen
well the clocks on the screen but it's
it's a bit of a relief because I'm not
always checking the time mm-hmm so when
I'm using my computer I just kind of get
automatically updated right how much
time has passed yeah and it's not it's
actually incredibly non intrusive to
have the time just kind of told to you
and I think in general right this seems
to be the direction of IOT s in general
right with like Google home and yeah
these different devices there's some
cookies yeah just easier sorry we're
talking with Alexa about just
reminiscing about doll houses and
cookies all right veña veña name is
veena I am an Indian English so the
organizational kind of process for you
has been not just to clean up your
desktop and things like that but also to
customize your computer make it feel
more like hey this is cheezer's computer
it's meant to work for you yeah it's
very much optimized optimized to what I
like cool and I think the aspect that
relates to Mary condo is well
organization as well your desktop looks
incredibly uncluttered which I love yes
and I and I kind of envy because mine
ends up getting filled with icons yeah
how about you yeah
I'll tell ya my simple way around it is
I just hide my icons you hide your
desktop icons yes cuz I like my
wallpaper right right paperwork is a
picture from the balcony where Dave and
I had our honeymoon and it's all palm
trees in the water and I want to see it
so I just hide all my icons and then
when I need to do something like work
I just unhide them find my thing open it
and then I hide them again okay so it's
similar
yeah what do you keep on your desktop
I'm just curious for work like mostly
just like work programs like the
operating station yes oh yeah exactly
okay so make sense and then on my home
computer it's literally just all VR
games oh yeah but we we actually have
all of the icons up because they're fun
and Dave will change the the order of
them to like make a smiley face out of
the icons you know things like that what
I tend to do is different from what what
you've what your approach has been in
that I will just create a folder on my
desktop and that's where I put
everything so that my desktop looks
clean but under the hood there is
actually this mess of tiles how do you
like what kinds of why that's how I make
my email look organized many emails and
then I just have created a folder for
every single person who's ever sent me
an email and I'm like wow that goes in
the Ravi folder a single filter that
moves everything into a different folder
and it makes my in book inbox look like
I do things I am very big on redundancy
so I save copies of copies of copies you
use Photoshop so you know what it's like
to have a PSD file and lose your work
and all those layers that you've spent
hours and hours working on to lose that
PSD and you have a ping but your PSD is
gone and now you're you know what do you
do so I
file1 dot PSD file - dot PSD file 3 dot
PSD so they're all the same thing at
different iterations of the file with
various ways of being able to go back in
time but I never ever lose more than
you'd say the one sessions work because
I always save as an incremental number
but then at the end of the day I end up
with a folder filled with tons and tons
of these redundant files yeah I think
that's a great system though numbering
it like that because I think I mean in
terms of my organization of folders this
is something I I don't know maybe I did
a number of years of admin work so this
kind of started me off very early in
terms of folder organization but in
terms of actually I have the reverse
problem though in terms of anything
graphic design related or graphics
related nightmare you know five
different you know files name with the
word final in it right if you're doing
graphic design that's or if you're using
those kinds of files so weighty right so
yeah that's I think that's an excellent
solution probably to add to that I think
the only thing that can be done if your
files are disorganized the way I do it
or have done it is to clean it up right
after you finish that particular piece
of work because that's when you remember
which ones are which right and after
that it's just a nightmare like after
that you open it up and it's like like
thank you sort by date I can show you my
graphic designer actually see how she
does it's always horrendous okay so this
is the the worst so under the hood folks
yeah you're not nearly as bad as me
though that's not well I mean this is
this is because why maybe because I
haven't done graphic design too much if
you look at my old Mac it would be a lot
worse yeah
however
contrary to everything graphic design my
other folders are alright so folder
organization I don't know what's what's
so you have the approach of putting a
folder on your desktop I organize
everything by date by date so when I
create a folder it's like today it would
be the folder name would be 2018 Oh 704
- whatever it is that I'm working on I
do that - yeah so that's that's my
project folders and that's how I do
everything right so what would you do
like so I'll just show you what I have
here so I have these are basically all
my document folders hmm would this look
similar to what you would
oh no mine is much longer I'll show you
so basically what I did is these are all
the folders I actually have used since
last year 2017 and the only thing that
I've altered for this show is the
sensitive Docs I created another and the
sensitive Doc's really is just actually
any folders that have more personal
things so I literally have one called
Docs which is a bit of my miscellaneous
folder and then money is anything
related to money photos of course photos
like Facebook photos family photos and
writing I have you know my folders
2017-2018 and then I just I name my
documents as you do so that even if
they're altered later it'll still say
2018 - you know 4 - April - 24 or
whatever so yeah so I think that's I
mean I'll show you some of these folders
but they're like my classes it looks
incredibly organized to me and and I'm
interested to hear I know the chat room
has been has been chatting away I don't
know if you've caught much of it and I'm
sorry that I you know I'm not really
monitoring the chat room very well
tonight but I think just getting it
through through my mind that hey I need
to be this organized I would love to be
that organized
I would also love to be that organizer I
appeared that organized from day to day
don't open the one folder on my desktop
order that you can understand though if
is if it's within your own language then
do you ever lose ooh what what is no I
don't lose things because I name things
very verbose Lee so I'm able to do a
search within filenames I can use find
in the Linux terminal and I can find
anything that I'm looking for where I
run into trouble is my projects
transcend the folder structure of
documents graphic design video
production because I'm working on things
like a logo for a video and things like
that so it makes it really hard to
organize in that way oh so that's where
the dating really helps organizing by
date okay so when you're looking for
files let's say you're looking for a
logo for a video project that you did
last month how would you go about so for
example there's a category-5 folder on
my server and in category 5 is a
breakdown of every show so technology TV
is this show and within that folder
there's graphics backgrounds animated
backgrounds and things like that video
assets and then they're organized by
seasons so season 4 is different from
season 7 from season 11 right of course
and so I can always find what I'm
looking for that way but then I do end
up with a lot of old stuff well it's
really good that you're not like hey
Sasha do you want to organize my stuff
for me oh I would literally just have
one folder and it would be like I
wouldn't think to subcategorize buy
anything we just all be in there with
the assumption that I could go into
there and then click the search bar and
then just search light at random some
words that I know are part of that like
like fork that makes broccoli tastes
like chocolate like I feel like I would
search she actually has that document
right that's the this is right on the
top I'm sure it's sorted by priority it
says 1 1 chocolate tasting broccoli
exactly I'd be interested to know what
our community thinks and what our
community is is doing to keep files
organized
maybe something she's shared with us has
inspired you to do things a little bit
differently maybe in in work or at home
and we'd love to hear from you if you
could comment below if you're watching
this on Facebook on Facebook YouTube
wherever you are or if you're watching
this on cable TV make sure you get on to
our website category-five TV and click
on contact us and we'll be sure to share
your story with shizue and the rest of
the community as well anything any final
thoughts that before because I don't
want to cut you off
oh okay so final thoughts final thoughts
folks can you tell the t-shirt story
sure so when I clean up of my space so
this is back to the book the
life-changing magic of tidying up when I
was cleaning on my space the ideas you
hold on to everything that is magic and
joyful and just you is like brilliant to
you and I came across this t-shirt which
is a t-shirt I wear at night and it's so
comfy you've had that a while yeah I've
had it it's a threadbare yeah I bought
it I think at Lara in Japan and like two
or something so it's like 2008 and it's
like my favorite shirt ever like it's
just the way it feels when I wear it so
I wear it at night and I actually
because it didn't look good like it's a
little fit it's faded by Nature right
and it's a little bit more a tiny bit
more faded now but I think it's actually
supposed to be this thing it's it's back
in now but basically the idea is that
this shirt I actually threw out with my
bags of stuff because it didn't look
good and I was like I cried I actually
literally cried and this was a hard
thing to let go of
but that's our old mindset of wanting to
get rid of stuff to declutter yeah and
it hurts yeah it hurts it hurt and does
not hurt when I throw away my fat shirts
every object has a different spirit to
it I'm telling you I have a guitar and I
literally I belted it in on my way over
here oh yeah yeah I had to I know it's
weird but I can't
but that thing is beautiful so this
shirt I threw out but I sneakily
actually took it back because I liked it
that much and I hadn't actually gotten
to the portion of the book where Marie
Kondo says oh it's cool to keep like one
or two things that are you know on the
sly things that you really like like a
pajama shirt and I was like cool she
gave me the thumbs up
I could probably speak more on the whole
on the open portal that that actually
created with regards to this
organization and messiness and
prioritization and the idea that having
a messy room is actually in some times
and circumstances the better thing to do
in my opinion but I'm not a famous super
step what my authority is based on but
for those of you who are interested in
finding out more about being
disorganized and what that relates to
Robbie was exactly right it is to do
with creativity intelligence it's also
to do with being a Bri Kohler we'll talk
about the anthropologist Claude
levi-strauss
anyway all sorts of great things but
please do Google search that because
that actually changed my perspective on
things and that's the asterisks that is
a little bit of a mystery just a Google
search away there you go and we still
have the book in our shop as well cat5
dot TV slash tidy how has that just as a
final thought how has that mindset of
holding on to something that you
otherwise would have discarded how is
that transcended to your MacBook and
your organization technologically have
there been any of those files that you
might have removed but have held on to
well this is the miracle of technology
you can actually be a little more
infinite with what you have you're not
limited to the same amount of confined
space yeah I mean you can keep all of
those shows on your computer and it's
not like a heavy load unless you can't
find it which is another you imagine I
just it just don't dawned on me like
every single Netflix show will
but on a VHS like could you imagine if
you had that whole library or catalog of
things you can watch but as things that
would be horrid on a single VHS like I
know I'm talking about like if
metaphorical being you had VHS tapes for
every show right right but now we don't
have that we're like yes yeah we're
minimalists really now as far as I get
all on a computer and you don't have to
have you know bookcases full of VHS yeah
my phone can have thousands upon
thousands of full-length CDs on it yeah
yes and I think that's the I mean it
sounds a bit messianic it starts but the
horrendous words were but I mean
technology really has this capability of
allowing us to stay organized focus but
also to allow us to like allow our
creativity to flourish right and and if
that means the manifestation of that is
the like a trillion files which can be
organized in certain ways then that's
what it is but that's the amazing part
about it
so that would be my application is
creativity away on on your computers and
so that brings us back to kind of the
technology TV and of things where I need
to say make sure you backup your files
folks yes make sure you've got a backup
because I'd hate to see you lose that
millions and trillions of files that
Shizue has just given you permission to
have on that no can I do a 17-second
absolutely okay because speaking of
creativity I have a little video and
it's literally 17 seconds all right
folks
slow rap making it easier to wrongful
and other two-syllable in the nick of
time reppin real fast makes it how to
understand google search another lyrics
and disservice to your fans slow alright
we can't hear here in the studio very
cool
alright well thank you she zoo for for
sharing with us tonight do check out the
book by Mary condo the life-changing
magic of tidying up a cat5 TV slash tidy
it really is a game changer and I know
it sounds kind of silly
it's a tidying kind of thing but it
really works well when your space feels
good to you like if it's not
overwhelming to walk into your home
because all of a sudden you're looking
around and it's just simple it's all the
things that you like and it's organized
it's like your brain can relax when you
get home and then life gets better
[Music]
[Applause]
you
