a person who was doing a family favor
was asked to film the wedding of a
relative uh-huh and being the
videographer and the photographer in the
family said I would like to do that for
you right but what do you do before you
shoot a wedding you make sure that
you've got enough space on your SD cards
yes because you're shooting on your your
DSLR in this case or maybe a hand camera
and you realize that I don't want to run
out of space so what do we do we get on
Amazon we get on eBay and we find a car
that has a lot of space that's not going
to break the bank right and then we go
and we shoot the wedding in its entirety
in its entirety and and then what
happens if that SD card doesn't work
taking it one step further what happens
if that SD card is fake then you hope
people took pictures on their cell phone
exactly you've probably got everybody in
the congregation holding their cell
phone and it probably takes pretty good
video these days yeah getting that
footage and stable it's probably not
gonna be the same quality that is a
heartbreak yeah how does it happen right
well I can imagine that happens with
trust right it happens with trust and
lack of experience like I would just
order an SD card because you see a great
deal and you know a great deal when you
see one right I just scroll through the
comments like the first four or five and
I'm like other people like this I'll buy
it yeah okay yeah so like and I'm
telling the real truth about Who I am
right like I will impulse buy without
asking you first I should ask you know
you don't need to ask me but tonight
we're gonna look at some of the red
flags that we can look for okay in this
particular scenario of buying an SD card
and of course it transcends a lot of
different things now taking your
approach of looking at the first few
comments and and things like that the
first few reviews looking at the star
rating the problem that we run into with
that is that we get a lot of pop
fly-by-night stores selling on eBay and
selling on Amazon that I have only been
around for a couple of weeks and there's
red flag number one right but they get
other people that are part of their scam
right to rate and comment on the
products that they're selling right so
backing up a little bit what is a fake
microSD card so it's not that it's fake
in that it's not actually an SD card no
it is an SD card but what they do is
they'll print on it that it is a certain
capacity even though it is not so in the
case of our wedding videographer they
were shooting on a 256 gigabyte micro sd
card I'm gonna bring up Amazon here and
I'm gonna do just a quick search like
you might do for a micro SD card in that
capacity so 256 gigabyte micro sd and
here on Amazon so know that this is not
about Amazon being untrustworthy this is
that we as consumers need to realize
that when we're shopping online
especially we have to be the quality
control in a lot of ways so we have to
watch for red flags we have to be
careful and it's not Amazon's fault it's
not a bays fault this is the nature of
the world that we live in where sites
like these allow other people to sell
products through their service ok so in
this case unfortunately it was fake and
I'm going to talk to you a little bit
about that in just a moment so first of
the first thing that we see is SanDisk
comes up and SanDisk's are in this
capacity 200 gigs is $69.50 canadian
there's a 256 gig which is what we're
looking at it's $100 105 dollars and 61
cents ok so the first thing that we know
is that the first couple that come up
are in around the hundred dollar range
okay if we keep going through the list
we're gonna see that the cheapest one in
that capacity now here's a samsung here
for a hundred and seventeen dollars
and so we start to think wow these are
really expensive so what other options
are there so let's sort from low to high
price and whoa lo and behold ladies and
gentlemen a 256 gigabyte card for just
$9.99 Canadian which for those of you in
America that's about three dollars okay
so red flag number two not possible okay
so just so you know not possible let's
look at this card itself looking at the
picture of the card we notice it's not
Kingston it's not SanDisk it's not Tran
transcend it's not PNY it's not any
brand that we can recognize whatsoever
now when this first went up it had four
or five stars it's starting to go down
as people start our ordering it let's
look at some of these reviews and we can
see that doodoo okay first one I use
this in my phone for the weekend
transferred files on to it and then it
corrupted everything think about that
for just a second just hold that in the
back of your mind it worked fine so you
plug this in and it's working fine now
for our videographer they plugged it
into their camera and of course like
anybody would do they shot a couple of
videos around the house they tested it
it's working great yes I got a deal at
$9.99 for a 256 gigabyte card right
jumping back to the profile let's see
what else we can find about it here so
there's nothing really about the brand
or what it is if I highlight over top of
the seller we can see that they have a
high rating so that's good oh this is
compare offers no that's not the seller
either so that's not even the seller so
a little bit deceiving a little bit
deceiving right because that is a
different offer from a different seller
so looking at this of course we see it
is extremely cheap it looks like a
legitimate carton and it does actually
physically look like a legitimate card
in person when you hold
in your hand but we know that it's
missing a couple of things so another
thing that we notice is that okay at
this capacity it doesn't have any
markings that it's like UHS
ultra-high-speed which it most likely
would at this capacity but certainly no
brand name is offered
so my red flag my biggest red flag with
this one and why I would move on is that
it's too good to be true right
so then we think but I can buy this I'll
take that risk it's only ten dollars and
amazon allows me to return things if
they're not good if it doesn't work if I
have a problem with this card I can send
it back right because the card itself to
my pocketbook is only worth ten dollars
right what is that wedding video worth
to you
yeah it's everything what are the photos
that you take on your phone worth to you
those things are priceless in a lot of a
lot of times those things are priceless
you can't replace them you can't in the
case of a wedding and pictures the
family you can't retake them right right
so what happened here so this is this is
an example of a very very likely fake
card on Amazon having ordered this card
and shooting video as I said it worked
the first review said at first I started
transferring files to it so it worked
right but then all of a sudden it
corrupted the data because the card
itself
now I physically had this in my hand and
I plugged it into my Linux machine and I
ran it against fdisk
and I did a little bit of math the card
showed that it was 256 gigabytes
according to the report from fdisk right
it's a 256 gigabyte card now looking a
little bit closer at the sector count of
that card and doing a little bit of math
and figuring out what the card really is
is physically not what the file system
is telling me it is right
the card was 2.4 gigabytes
okay how does that happen so a malicious
party has manufactured cards that are 2
gigabytes in capacity right
they've relabeled them as 256 gigs
they've actually connected them to a
system that has overwritten the file
tables to make it look to your system to
your camera to your computer as though
it is 256 gigs everything that you see
about this card shows you that it's 256
gigs right as you start working with it
as you film video on this card it works
until you hit 2.4 gigs and then it keeps
working because your camera still says
this is a 256 gig card that's what the
card says it is in the file table in the
filesystem table and it keeps recording
but where's the data going into the
abyss of nothingness and so then having
shot all that video on this card yeah
plugging it into the computer after the
event and realizing I only have 2 point
4 gigabytes of video and everything else
is lost the filesystem says that they're
there because remember the file
allocation table is only a reference
it's like a it's a list of all the files
that are currently on the card so the
file allocation table tells Windows when
you plug it in or your MacBook when you
plug it in there your Linux machine when
you plug it in here's a list of all the
videos you took here are a whole bunch
of MOV files and they amount to a
hundred gigs but you try to click on one
and then the file allocation table looks
for the data on the card can't find it
and spews that either an error message
or just a bunch of garbled video because
the data itself it doesn't exist with
anything salvageable no in this
particular case not at all the test
videos before the wedding
very salvageable not what they're
looking for now so we have to watch for
red flags again this isn't a problem
caused by Amazon it's the the nature of
purchasing from any vendor like and
think of Amazon we've used the example
you use the example of calling them a
mall right you walk into the mall and
you don't automatically trust every
little kiosk in that mall just because
they're in a mall that you trust hmm
because the kiosk is really the person
who's selling this product and did they
even manufacture it who knows the
company that's selling it may think
they've got a real great deal on two and
a 56k cards right and then maybe they
don't know any better this particular
case the cards were fake and as you can
see on my screen a ten dollar 256
gigabyte not megabyte gigabyte card is
not a real SD card so it's best to just
spend more money and go with a brand you
know and trust
absolutely Kingston yeah exactly like I
say look for the brand in this
particular case because we're looking at
SD cards yeah yeah we're looking at
Kingston we're looking at sandwich
we're looking at Samsung and and even
then they they can be rebranded too
right so it's a danger so you know how
do you possibly know if you're safe it's
like you've got to buy from legitimate
sellers watch out for that price because
if it seems too good to be true maybe it
is and this isn't just SD cards but this
is a good example we really need to be
careful what we buy we ran into it on
the news
right there was that was it a fire smoke
detector carbon monoxide detector yeah
right and I mean really in truth if the
test button if you press the test button
test button makes a noise you think oh
this thing works yeah because you
wouldn't hold it up to something with
carbon monoxide spewing out of it to see
if it would go and now you think you
would but who would yeah who has ever
created a fandangled carbon monoxide box
to hook up to the exhaust pipe of their
car was it bought a new carbon monoxide
you press the test button you see okay
it's making noise you plug it into your
wall and Bob's your uncle
right except that
except they're fake exactly was the case
again on Amazon exactly on ebay on
various other sites that we're selling
that product yeah so I hope that through
this that you understand that we need to
be smart consumers we need to be careful
where we're purchasing from the products
that we're buying and certainly if
you're going to be shooting something
like in a case of like a wedding or
shooting something like that I always
have multiple SD cards handy and I
always test them first I will actually
you know what here's a good test for you
put it in your camera and push record
and let it run for four hours see what
happens if you're not sure like if you
got an SD card and maybe you've got a
couple on hand and you're I don't even
know maybe one of these is fake why not
just run it through a record process for
as long as you will ever need to so just
fill it right up yeah and and then watch
back the video and just skim it over and
just make sure that everything's good
and then you'll know whether or not that
card is is good and there are other you
know smart ways to test it using dde and
things like that but not very intuitive
from a user standpoint so you know what
plug it in your camera press record let
it record for as long as it can hold and
then check it back and see before you
actually need that card you're not it's
good
[Music]
[Applause]
