hi guys we're doing another video where
today I'm going on Vanessa east river
again but don't worry today I've also
probably today I've also uploaded a
video from my survival world it's not
survival series but we did do a mod
showcase but today we're going to have
some little a little bit of fun I don't
really have much planned but we're going
to show you this modern home here we're
in a few episode back and this in this
building I said I had the idea to make a
make them out at home so I said I would
do that but I decided to make it off
camera because sometimes I've been doing
I've been doing quite a lot of building
rightly so so it's just it's not the
fancy kind of thing it's pretty modern
it's got these steps to a disco room you
can't even go underneath it so it's not
a very safe place to be dancing so be
careful there's a pub station with a I
don't even know that things called but
there's beer mugs and everything and
this little counter behind so it's a
really nice fashional fashion house on
my taxes nice blue sofas I think I'll do
that now so i'll do is so far and grab
some o sofa and put that there now we've
got a little room sitting space
let's get rid of beasts oh no I'm
putting it in refill so do so let's go
have some fun around as well also this
is a house that I forgot to show in the
village like the opening video to show
the village is just a nice simple fun
house it's a full of diamond doors and
nyan cat box and got this really nice
bedroom unfortunately it's not nice so I
can't do this something amazingly
amazing and sleep in it there's
wardrobes which if you click on if you
don't have a skin because i'm sure some
of you don't have skins you can left
click on one of these from a wardrobe
and your skin will be transformed into
one of these guys so if you don't have a
skin and you're waiting for to get one
or something like that you can just
right-click the wardrobe and have a big
selection for lots of different skins so
that's pretty handy i'm not quite sure
what I might want to do but oh I need to
show you this mall and so yeah I built
this mall where the floating island used
to be replaced lollipops to the candy
canes because I kind of took took away
all the Christmasy stuff i really wish i
could keep them but that just wouldn't
really make much sense so i made this
really cool mall you can rent your own
rooms which i've had a couple people
rent which one person is rented named
Isaak step
okay so he has this really cool tool
store tools for sale diamonds special
owned by Ida's exit think he needs to
fix his windows not very nice with the
windows but otherwise it's a really good
place there this is the snack bars got
some refrigerators with nothing in it
some ovens some kitchen cabinets
microwave a dishwasher and some kitchen
sinks so here you is says that's good
corner owned by mangafox 70 in the next
floor this nice room here has a little
outlook on the stairs and this big bay
window looking out on the airport so you
can spy on people then then this room is
Gary white but he hasn't oh it hasn't
opened yet so once he opens that I'll
show it to you guys big um this is
another part of the big window looking
out on the city here are this table for
like if you went to the fast-food cone
on would like to stay in the mall this
is just a small room you can rent any of
these rooms for free because it's
creative so it's technically not renting
then up here here's one of my favorite
rooms it's a really nice room this is
another room from Isaac's if he's only
got two rooms so don't so yeah he's got
two rooms this one is Isaac's its
electronics so he's got a laptop a
speaker and a computer and in here he
has this nice little area overlooking
the city that is at being attacked by
giant world whole
and then the final floor it's on the
roof so if this isn't a fancy a small
but I'm going to add some improvements
to it in the future so this is just a
simple little kiosk um it says owned by
mangafox 70 but when somebody rented out
I'll knock those out and they can pick
some owned by them so this is a nice
kiosk where you can also rent there's
lots of benches and a teleporter so i
can get here quickly in this nice little
place next to a pine tree where you sit
so i think i'll use easy way down i'll
go to ice rink there are the supports
and also one of my viewers decided to
make an awesome house I can't really
show it because it has locked doors I
could break in but that wouldn't be very
nice so and there's also this nice
volley ball field which he I'm assuming
made as well so it says please use front
door and this is dennis DK d cali 810 so
he did he spent a lot of time working on
this and he did a great job so thanks
for coming onto the server took him out
my city so he has his own house
overlooking the city what you guys can
do too if you connect and this is
another home it's this interesting like
outside home and yeah we've got some
other things like there's this big hole
and I need to show you this the last
time a couple two videos ago I decided
to make a build battle video but you
know you guys probably know if you've
seen that video that it was kind of
cramped so I'd knocked out all that
display and now we are able to have an
entire room for ourselves so i want to
show you all the pixel art we've done so
here since you couldn't really see very
well when we had the cramped places
because of all the fences says the
builders has an interesting design then
there's this diamond
Fox then there are these um this nice
heart and these interesting figures then
the next room it has this movie recorder
thing these look really cool I'm not
quite sure what they are but they're
really cool some of these rooms I had
help with with some friends some popcorn
and some milk which is possibly one of
my favorite pixels are sitting here not
my number one but it's really really
good thanks tots for helping then this
is probably my favorite room it's got
this pretty creepy Fox in it I made it
then my brother helped build this which
is his skin then this really cool
penguin with an Elvis Presley hairstyle
in this teardrop and then my favorite my
skin I spent about an hour working on
this guy ice it's just so good and I
really really appreciate all my friends
helping with it with the worlds and
here's another room it's not finished
it's got this interesting pattern and
such so I'm going to need a lot more
help doing this one more room to show
it's got these interesting patterns lots
of patterns then it's got this diamonds
emeralds and Ruby wall a fruit tray or a
fruitful and this the most amazing
sunset in the history of the world and
pretty much that's all that that's
pretty much everything that's new in the
city since I did the since I did since I
did the episode interviewing the city so
let's get out of here and oh here's
something else I need to show on Vanessa
and downloaded a new mod which is it
it's like it's like an update of the
more streets the streets mod so that's
really cool then over here one of the
admins did a what's called a biome
change so yeah it's actually kinda
hilarious some of my buildings turned
into
turn into dirt which sucks because
building what snow is actually something
I really like to do one of my friends
built some neat things out of snow but
it turned into dirt feel bad for him he
spent so much time on this end is turned
into dirt well anyway um there's this
building lots of new things has popped
up since i did that episode it's just
this really cool like building that i'm
pretty sure that tots made it's got
these dishwashers and what's this
backwards dishwasher where else there's
also this thing in this house this is
cool got this nice little house like a
really nice little cabin medicine
cabinet
and then another home this home has been
here for a while um because I just
forgot to show it in the welcoming video
so this is just a really neat cactus
kind of home it's got some neat for us I
don't I'm not quite sure what they're
called then also somebody decided to
build a subway to my city yay so if you
go down it's not complete but it leads
into the subway oh is it complete yeah
so he's made this who are you who is a
master builder has created the subway
system he does it all around the
building world but I guess since our
city is so inhabited or it's just a nice
place to be he decided to make a subway
rail to our city which I'm actually
quite happy at of I'm not quite sure if
it's intentional but I like it anyway
it's he did a really good job or she
then also there is this which is wsd guy
2014's pixel art which has some really
cool rats i like that and also one last
home this is one of tots new homes top
song it's really cool and then this is a
roof it's got this hole here just a nice
roof and I really really really like the
florist so let's see if there are any
more buildings I overlooked over here oh
here's one this thing I'm not quite sure
what it is just popped up one day i'm
pretty sure that longest half 13 made it
it's pretty cool but i'm not going to
sure what did it so young another thing
is oh my goodness i found so many things
so many things have been built since
then this is a good christmas cabin i
really like the way it did these using a
glass on what's it called glass panes or
something over the light box just looked
so good and then there's an
elevator to floor to wear it this is
just so nice I would this is so
incredible Ryan hero you did a good job
it's got this really nice fireplace
flower pots I just love this place being
Snowden wouldn't be a problem in that
place then this is just a forest that I
might want to clear out this is also a
castle to owned by tots but yan lin made
who is a master castle builder it's got
this throne and these things i forget
what they're called so I'm not a master
of with the build castles and there's
this place which is this nice little
bunker kind of thing yeah so that's
pretty much all the new thing so it's
also this which is the beginning of a
floor it's not completed yet because the
person who's making it um has it
completed it yet and I'm trying to
finish the rest of the frames for this
and yeah that's pretty much it there's
also this oh my goodness every time I
that's like the third time in the cips
episode I've said that's it and there's
this and this I have to show at all I
just have to there's this thing who
lives here so this is interesting little
place here not quite sure what this is
some sort of interesting little home in
the rocks or snow then here is the
hardware post office and market
electronics so the first place is
hardware store open monday-friday 730am
five o'clock p.m. sunday ten o'clock
a.m. to four o'clock p.m. it's got a
barber table not quite sure what that
does but I really like this counter and
I want there's these kind of hardware
items in the chest that looks good
so it's got all kinds of things that you
can buy from here and also here's the
next one post office North's town branch
whoa somebody spent a lot of time on
this good job so the video is almost
coming to the end I just got to show the
last place is there are filing cabinets
which one's mine I'm going to claim this
one my mailbox and there are mailboxes
I'm going to get a mailbox and yeah so
now I have a mailbox just cool and the
last store is the know there are two
more stores this is the market place
northtown market bakery deli grocery
because this oven so it's like a bakery
kind of place it's chess this one says
blueberry muffins bread which look so
sold out to mate mate Oh soup chicken
soup meat and I'm not quite sure if this
is completed yet but it looks looking
pretty good in the electronics store
which is one of my favorites so dak
electronics open daily nine to five
Monday to through Friday come on for
come in for some great deals got some
love the floor got some computers got a
telephone booth over there it's got all
kinds of different uh what's it called
all kinds of different kind of items to
get this laptop sis this is everything
there's also some hardware workbench
barber table not quite sure how that
works and there's a Tetris
mmm and that's pretty much all the new
things x forgive me if I missed
something um thanks for watching and
subscribing and thank you to all the
people who have added some some
difference they're built to the city
because it's really growing and it's not
just by me I may have started it but a
lot of people have made it have made it
a complete success which so I've got a
bunch of different buildings that aren't
just owned by me a subway system and all
the things that the city could need
excuse me thanks for subscribing and for
watching goodbye
