welcome to category five technology TV
this is episode number 585 and this week
we are looking at blue do headphones
they are fantastic and we've got our
buddy
the dummy head the binaural audio
recording system he's gonna let us know
how those sound we're gonna give it a
little test as well we've got a great
show planned for you
stick around our live recordings are
trusted only to solid-state drives by
Kingston technology revive your computer
with improved performance and
reliability over traditional hard drives
with Kingston SSDs category 5gv streams
live with Telestream Wirecast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and alert other HLS video players
for local show times is a category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it's stuck it's here
cat 5.2 v /t p.m. and the International
Association of Internet broadcasters cat
5 dot TV slash IAI we have way too much
fun it's way too much fun here cat
that's why I come back every week is
that why just have fun yeah that's fun I
would never miss it and but it's good to
have you back I'm glad to be back two
weeks in a row I feel like I'm on a
streak mmm I'm Robbie
aka bald nerd I'm Sasha
no aka I guess like Madonna and Jeff aka
ginger ninja I hear the girls are saying
you're cute
just the one everybody's having a
wonderful week so far nice to have you
here we've got a great show planned for
you tonight and we actually have another
set of headphones that we're gonna be
looking at all that phone's taking
another approach tonight we're actually
each going to get to try these
headphones to give our reaction
- how these blue d-o-t monitor sound I'm
excited about these because I'm really
keen on on how they look and feel okay
mm-hmm what do you guys been up to
anything in the tech news in your life
this week in my life yeah
I'm nothing no man I broke discord on my
computer okay I'm learning that and I
will get it fixed I know that it was me
well I suspect that it was me I say it
shouldn't be that easy to break
something you've only had cloud-ready
for a couple weeks now yes I love it
yeah okay except I don't know that it's
a cloud-ready issue like chromium er
yeah something up with discord I just
went and done something to it so I don't
know play around with it or something
we'll figure it out I think that we need
to get to the point where computers just
work you're talking tonight on the
newsroom segment about how Microsoft
pushed out a new patch and it actually
broke their device their own computers I
know their stuff the Microsoft
manufactured right so I obviously I'm
not the worst out there people say like
hey well you know Linux is so buggy
because you're having trouble with this
cord right I feel like at the end of the
day the problem with teca's people
uh-huh he's putting the blame on you
that's what it sounds like to me
why are you slouching so much slowly
deflating people are the ones that screw
up the text like yeah yeah well sure
like if we just did we were supposed to
like reading the manual or like hey I
have antivirus how come I got ransomware
exactly did you turn it on did you click
on the did you authorize that person to
remote into your computer the claim they
were Microsoft did you open up RDP on
your computer and make it accessible to
the world every side of you I've
reminded you of something you did okay
so
okay okay I hate like despise with a
passion those BOTS crawlers that will
hit your website steal your information
and then flip you emails like the real
people right so an organization I'm deal
a deal with put our website live on
Thursday yes since that time we have
been inundated with this kind of stuff
the some of which are so sophisticated
that I got an email from another person
within the organization who said hey I
need you to take care of this right now
can you flip it to this information
mm-hmm and it was something that I knew
the person would never ask for but
pulled information directly from our
website and I was like oh my gosh
it's smart and again take it one step
further Jeff some of these bots will
actually follow links from your website
to other websites that you link to yep
you don't think anything of that right
but do you link to your suppliers or
your vendor partners if you're in
business absolutely
like we link to ESET obviously so if
ESET head office got an email that
looked like it was coming from Robbie
Ferguson they would possibly I mean
they're there genius when it comes to
security so they never fall for it but
understand the scenario it crawls my
website gets my name and then goes out
to their website because I've got a link
to their website gets all their
information
Masha's it all up it uses possibly
machine learning and artificial
intelligence at this point to make it
into it to make those connections mm-hmm
right yep and what happens if that rep
gets an email that looks like it's from
Robbie Ferguson and says hey I need you
to put through that order for
such-and-such yeah well we got one like
that with our web domain renewal it's
due at the end of all there are a lot of
those yeah so as who is his public
record
yes I don't exactly noticed that it read
the Whois information yeah knew that we
were up for renewal but the best part
was it didn't go to the email that was
registered for the Whois it sent it to
another person who has login access to
the site
and set them an email saying you need to
update here's the link and so they
flipped it to me saying can you take
care of this because I'm the web guy
yeah and I'm like whoo whoo whoo that's
not legit she's like no but our sites
gonna go down in the next 24 hours you
got a pan like it's Matt yeah it was
crazy my who is even though who is
itself is public record interesting to
note that mine says redacted for privacy
mmm that's cool this is category 5 dot
TV but if you do a who is on any website
and I'm using two main tools com
I don't know let's try google.com and
see what comes up so in the public
record for that domain it shows me now
let's verify that I'm obviously not a
robot mm-hm
this is this service will use reCAPTCHA
but keep in mind because who is is
public record you can just type who is
at the command prompt right Linux system
and script the whole process and there's
no I am NOT a robot
so does this tell us any information I
mean Google is Google right but it shows
that it's Google LLC can you think of an
example man I don't even want to do it
but who is is like when you register
domain a.com see a dot Co de UK whatever
you register you enter your contact
it goes into public record and then you
get spam don't get there's what we call
I think it's called the CA registrar oh
yeah they call themselves yeah change
dot a dot CA website if you have a dot
CA website it spiders through all the
dot CA websites gets the contact
information and they actually print
physical print out invoices and it looks
completely official it's got like
government stamp on it and everything oh
and it's called like the CA Registrar of
Canada or something like that and it
says unless you unless you fill in this
credit card information your domain is
going to be discarded or you know
whatever and trick so many people into
it oh it's way more sophisticated than
this is Canada Revenue Agency for that
that's a big thing right I know I just
saw they arrested another er like a
hundred people in India over it
Wow yeah I mean it could be anywhere oh
but yeah hey it says the e
EU laws forced who is to hide data in
well we're starting to get like GDP are
is making an impact on the public record
of who is data and that's absolutely
true and that's fantastic
maybe that's why my domain now says
hidden for privacy reasons right
my registrar has already taken that
initiative oh because they they need to
but that's a big problem here in Canada
I don't know if that's gonna impact dot
CA domains right away
Zera is the governing body a body over
that but we'll have to see
yeah lots of good stuff what's new in
your tech world that was it
that's it other than I'm doing repairs
on a dryer it's not really like hey you
know what it's not computer tech but I
find that there is a real satisfaction
in taking apart my dryer yeah ending the
the grapple grommet that needs replacing
yep and doing the work it's a heck of a
lot of work well I that's what I thought
mmm
so over the last year we've had the
thermal fuse go three times on our dryer
twice for me and I'm like what is why is
this because they're like Oh check to
make it's overheating because something
is clearly blocked so we've replaced the
pipes which were cleaned to begin with
anyway but I was like it's a six dollar
employer who cares yeah place that
stupid thermal fuse three times now I'm
like this is driving me nuts yes cuz I
replaced the two weeks ago and now it's
blown again a week later I mean what am
I gonna do so I started looking into it
and turns out I've got a bad thermostat
the thermostat within the dryer is
corrupt it's not corrupt but something's
gone haywire within it and so it's not
regulating the temperature in the dryer
so it's overheating going beyond the 150
and then and then the thermal fuse is
popping right so here I am spending this
money to replace the thermal fuse that
the thermostat the whole time okay so is
the fuse a little easier to access or
you got a really take do you gotta get
it I've had to gut my dryer twice now
it's pretty easy so I take the top off I
take the electrical panel off then I
pull the front off so then I can see
like the inside of the jam and then I
can get
behind and then it's just a piece that I
slide out and you've got the eSATA coils
yeah it's got a coil the thermostat and
the thermal fuse attached to it okay and
it's really easy to replace I could do
the entire job how my dryer dismantled
and reassembled within like seven
minutes know how I envy you man my tire
is coudl for that that's a lot of work
I've got like a Kenmore with the
computer touch panel on it and everyone
- really and it's brutal - maybe I'm
doing it I'm opening it from the wrong
side you know what but I've had that
thermal device the the sensor go twice
and the second time I'm like why is it
going a second time and then turned out
that my coil had a crack in it so it was
like it at that point was generating too
much heat or whatever at the break so so
I had to replace that unit but replacing
it myself I didn't have to replace the
dryer didn't have to go through all that
stuff and yeah oh yes when you buy the
parts like from a retail establishment
awesome yeah can get quite costly like
just the thermal holes is 35 bucks each
I found an entire kit for the coil the
fuse in the thermostat for 35 bucks on
Amazon No Oh locally for that kind of
thing yeah so yeah and I just purchased
the other day another thermostat - two
thermal fuses total bills 26 bucks
Wow like I should do the labor yourself
I should look at that because the
printer at my work is it's flashing an
error that the maintenance kit needs for
a place that's the drum unit so it's a
laser printer yeah so the laser printer
it it's super heats to dry the tone
right as it goes through so your
maintenance kit is like the the drum
unit the cost of it when I write so I
called the company and I just was crazy
price $300 and I feel like you can buy a
printer for my placement printer parts
are about 25 cents on the dollar
compared to buying it from the
manufacturer if you buy them online
right so maybe I'll check online and see
if I can get a quote and keep in mind
when you buy a printer so you think
you're getting a better deal to buy a
printer because they're so cheap when
you buy a printer typically they come
with low yield component
right I'm not saying I want to buy a new
printer I just also don't want to buy a
$300 replacement but I want you to
understand that when you buy a printer
it has low yield components so they may
be rated for 10,000 prints right when
you buy the replacement it's going to be
a high yield component make sure it is
okay and it may be worth it may do 60 to
90 thousand prints like the ratio is
like that at the actual numbers but so
you get the high yield components and
you're actually getting a lot more value
to get those high yield are you speaking
in giggles right now no value for the
dollar I don't think we were quite you
know planning on talking printers but
when it comes to those yields one thing
a lot of people don't realize is like oh
it's like 10,000 pages it's not 10,000
pages it's generally ten thousand one
lines when they kind of get you that way
they do they're like oh the yield is ten
thousand well that but that's an
elaborate picture over and over again
five hundred times yes exactly and the
whole thing's gone it's like what that's
not ten thousand but yeah that's that's
why so especially if you go to buy a new
say laser to black and white printer
it'll say like oh you know you can get
1,500 pages out of the the starter toner
and you print three and you're like what
happened yeah but that's why because
they're like one line of all pure based
upon well it's based upon a page with 40
percent coverage right exactly like that
yeah so as soon as you start printing
some photos you're done yes yeah
interesting facts here on category 5
this week and hey I hope that you'll
join us on our website category 5 dot TV
we're in the thick of like the Christmas
shopping season it's a time of year
where those of us who celebrate it's a
great time for like we get the kids the
things that they need and we spoil them
a little bit but one of the great ways
that you can support category 5 TV is by
doing your shopping through our partner
links and it's just as simple as going
to category 5 TV clicking on support us
and you'll see our shop with our
partners and by doing that your shopping
on Amazon eBay gearbest banggood
ThinkGeek all of these great partners
you've had a look through our partners
yeah there's a lot of cool there is a
lot of stuff and when you're shopping by
clicking on the links on her website it
actually supports the show exactly so we
appreciate everyone who's been doing
that and we would encourage you to
please continue doing that and I ask
that whether whether you celebrate
Christmas or not or whether you shop or
not
anytime you're shopping online it's a
really cool way to send more
category-five to me it makes a
difference for us and this time of year
I have to ask because we are volunteers
here but we've got to keep the bills
paid we pay rent every single month for
our beautiful studio space here we're
trying really really hard to take things
to the next level we've got things like
I've set Sasha up with her very own
camera tonight there are things that we
want to do in the new year and we really
want category-five to be as strong as
possible we don't take a paycheck here
we're all volunteers and and you're
supporting us in that way through the
various ways that you can support
category-five just makes us strong makes
us able to do those things and makes us
able to create a show that's as good as
possible for you where we couldn't
jabberwocky about printers and random
things and we learned something along
the way I think tonight we've actually
got a really cool set of headphones
we're gonna be taking a look at we've
got to take a quick break when we come
back we're gonna be testing those and
seeing how good they sound can they
sound good they're not very expensive
okay
stick around whether you shop on
ThinkGeek gearbest B&amp;H Photo Video eBay
or Amazon or even if you want a free
trial of audible you'll find the best
deals and support the shows we produce
by simply visiting the shopping sites
you already frequent by using the links
on our website visit category-five TV
slash partners for the full and
ever-growing list and help us create
more free content like this show thank
you for shopping with our partners and
thank you for watching
welcome back okay we had a set of Power
locus headphones on the show a while
back you remember the episode yeah that
was a blast it's a lot of fun and when
you do a review of something and it goes
over well and we sold a whole bunch of
them what happens somebody else comes
along says hey review us exactly and
that's where blue tio comes in I'm
really kind of excited about these ones
though because they look like they are
super comfortable I love it to wear my
headphones for an extended time okay I
listen to music while I'm producing
video I'm just kind of dim it down
sometimes I crank it up if I'm doing
cleaning around the house or whatever
right so these ones we're just gonna get
right into the box then we're gonna give
them a test and we've got our buddy here
mr. binaural dummy head we're gonna put
the headphones on him and you're gonna
be able to hear how how we hear it as
well okay so let's get right into the
box Jeff Sasha
these are the blue tio T monitors and
you get these on gearbest cat 5 dot TV
slash gearbest I've also got a quick
link for you that will take you right to
this particular product it's cat 5 dot
TV slash blue do and it's spelled
exactly as you see there and at the
bottom of your screen well let's jump
into the box
there was a piece of paper there all
right yeah you got a piece of paper
we got the headphones all right I got
cat five yellow sweet
it matches your coffee cup Sasha yellow
is my favorite color so how do you like
these am i right yeah am i right okay
looks like awfully simple we've got a
USB charge cable here oh and that's USB
see and we've got instructions and I
imagine that's pretty straightforward
that's it that's all that's in the box
so you know I'm gonna read the
instruction instruction you toss them in
the right direction all right first
thing I want to do here I mean it's it's
really simple - to show you folks
something like headphones a couple of
things that I notice out of the box now
I haven't really used these yet there's
a lot of good like it feels like it's
metal like oh look at that
like these are not like a cheap plastic
even though the cost is not is not a lot
at all I'm gonna show you that just a
couple of moments really nice supple
cushions feel like a like a leather
after something like that there's fabric
on the insides so they they look like
they're gonna be really good for sound
isolation and very comfortable as well I
don't see any controls on this side
there's nothing at all over here no USB
input nothing like that looks like
everything is on this side so it's on or
looks like the whole the right side had
no left side headphone so we've got
power here and we've got volume here and
presumably Jeff is looking over the
manual there's probably some other
controls by holding various buttons yeah
oh yeah us ha there's a multi-function
button oh is it
yeah it does some really cool stuff well
I noticed that there's also a microphone
here too
so we can presumably once we've got the
power on I can tap that and it's got a
microphone so I can make phone calls see
that little hole there and you can also
control things like your Google
assistant yeah things like that's
perfect you know what's cool this is an
EQ feature you can adjust the EQ z' how
do you do that through the multifunction
button so the top button again the power
button yeah this cue button wants to
change EQ to adjust music performance so
it goes through different types of eq's
also just cycles through so it's not
like a so you just push one okay yeah
that sounds okay push the next one right
that sounds even better I don't like
that headphones don't come with that
feature it's basically like extra bass
or no would you use it would you use it
absolutely oh yeah yeah yeah like I'll
listen from relaxation like birds and
water flowing music yeah to like hard
rock you know I listen to a lot of like
dubstep electronica EDM yeah vocal
trance and yes yeah well to adjust the
EQ z' is beautiful I also like that I
don't know maybe I'm sorry for your
thunder but this has got a a cloud-based
app that works through the phone or
through the headphones without no way
it's a wait wake up the cloud function
so wake up the cloud yes tell you more
it says the headphone support cloud
service users can download the app by
scanning the QR code on the last page
connect the headset with your phone then
double-click the MF button to wake up
the cloud cloud services on you can
enjoy smart cloud service I have no clue
what's on the cloud no idea what that's
cool cloud base headphone specs wise
standby time after 2 hours of charging
is gonna be about a thousand alikat
these stats excite me oh my goodness 30
hours of Bluetooth music yeah what that
is cool I love the operating temperature
range though what he got it's gonna be
good for Canada yeah minus 10 to 15 up
to 50 so it's not really good for
walking around in the winter but if you
want to go on to the surface of the Sun
you're fine Wow
I guess that's good because things don't
generally break in cold temperatures
they break in hot temperature right yeah
so that's cool what else would we got 20
to 20,000 Hertz so it's full range I
want to give these things a listen yeah
they're up to 10 meters this season
always cost me so
money I'm sorry if we review things
let's see how this how this goes I'm
gonna I'm gonna push the power button
okay I just tapped it and it did nothing
I'm gonna hold it that don't work on oh
she sounds sultry no okay let's take it
power on exactly
yeah but obstructions say power on in
quotes oh yeah oh yeah that's the script
that she read as well let's see if I can
get this sync to my laptop so I'm gonna
go ahead go to bluetooth I'm on Windows
10 here so let's see what I need to do
I'm gonna clear out my devices and let's
give it a go so I'm gonna show you what
what it takes here okay so let's add a
device Bluetooth I'm gonna hold well
that's my phone
okay your pairing mode you have to hold
it until you see the low it's already
there
holy MF button I didn't have to it says
T monitor is connecting comparing
completed okay sweet and let's fire up
some music
[Music]
it's so full switch for the eq's I can't
hear you it's sound isolation is bright
yet he knew I was talking wait for it
that's goosebumps
Oh
that is awesome
those are great you guys have no idea
what I'm hearing absolute was next I'll
do I'll do okay here you go
this is good talk I want to see like in
here right how are you how are you I
love her she yells at us here your talk
you hear us at all she's probably
watching tomorrow and they're
comfortable see the thing I have right
now is I have like little earbud things
and I dislike that start to feel
uncomfortable yeah it's ready to go I'm
just gonna push play for you I've got a
track already ready to go multifunction
he's like already into the man you well
cuz I want to check the eq's okay okay
okay what all right yeah what have you
done I killed it you just push stop I
thought I hit the multifunction button
hip Lee
hey you hear me now yeah
they look better on me
what do you think you can't hear a thing
good
joy I'm just gonna go listen for the
rest of the show so let's see okay so
you're you're having trouble figuring
out the buttons yeah okay let's see Q I
couldn't get the key to work okay it
seems to stop it hmm oh I found it
which one was it yep
push the up and down volume control at
the same time at the same time okay I'm
sitting the power button okay cool
those are good EQ settings these sounds
if sounds like there's well four
different ones yeah
I'm not sure that's what is that rate
yeah they do they feel really like I've
got to say those feel good how did they
look like if I was walking I feel like a
DJ again when we were when we were DJs
on radio we didn't have wireless though
no these are streamline to like I feel
like there's a milik there's just no
extra stuff now unlike the ones that
we've reviewed in the past these ones do
not have an SD card reader built-in
rather you have to have a supplemental
device to feed the music to it but
that's what you got the cloud I don't
know your phone for that - I have no
idea what the cloud brings you Jeff but
I'm ray honestly I'm Street i'm yeah i'm
streaming music from my phone from my
laptop and so on so that's really what i
want to do those feel great so those are
the blue do tea monitors and you can get
them at cat 5 dot TV slash blue do and I
promised you that I would do this I know
that you want to hear it from the
perspective
our dummy head so we're just gonna pop
those on for you now and let you give
that a go the final dummy head so he
here's what community
you'd be washing right now we need to
get them burns
[Applause]
oh those are sleek jumping over to
gearbest
at cap five dot TV slash blue do just so
that you guys can see this is in US
dollars twenty five fifty four amazing
really great price they do come in other
colors if you're not yellow now Sasha
you're I know you're like no I'm like
they only come in yellow this is how I
know they're for me they also have a
deep love red and black and they look
better in person I think than I thought
they would look from the picture I'm not
a yellow fan I think I like the yellow
the best eeeh yeah well it's cuz you
tried them on and they look they look
really they sound great I like the sound
of yellow that's right that's the true
you heard it here folks too much fun
should we should we head over to the
newsroom I guess it's about that time
suppose we should flying by tonight all
right
here are the stories were covering this
week in the category 5 TV newsroom NASA
is going back to the moon with plans for
a space station to be built within 10
years and they're tapping into private
businesses to make it happen Microsoft
has announced that it is enabling users
to log into their Microsoft accounts
without usernames and passwords
Microsoft's own surface book too is
afflicted by blue screen of death errors
following the most recent software
updates and Nintendo has relaxed its
rules for video makers who the
share of their game gameplay on websites
such as twitch and YouTube if these
stories are coming right up don't go
anywhere
this is the category
TV newsroom covering the week's top tech
stories will sleep linux by us
Jeff Weston Gemma you're building a
brand-new beautiful website what aren't
you you're terrible actor what this
where acting comes into play I don't
know I think you're supposed to act okay
I'm building a really cool website are
you building a really cool website just
because Jeff is confused doesn't mean
you have to be visit cap five dot TV
slash DreamHost to sign up for unlimited
web hosting for your website with
unlimited email accounts MySQL databases
the latest version of PHP WordPress and
more and even a free domain name
registration it's less than six dollars
per month so sign up today cat five dot
TV slash DreamHost
that's your rickman in here the top
stories were following this week NASA is
going back to the moon with plans for a
space station to be built within ten
businesses to make it happen the
announcement on future moon flights came
just three days after NASA successfully
landed in sight spacecraft on Mars nASA
has announced that it will be private
companies that will make America's next
moon landing NASA Administrator Jim
bridenstine said Thursday that nine
American companies will compete to carry
experiments to the surface of the Moon
the Space Agency said in a statement
that the goal is to bring money many
science and technology experiments to
the moon as soon as possible the first
such flight could come as early as next
year in 2019 NASA and people across the
United States will mark the 50th
anniversary of the first manned landing
on the moon the last time humans visited
the moon was in 1972 during NASA's
Apollo 17 mission NASA officials say the
goal of the planned space flight is to
transport equipment for performing
experiments and collecting information
about the moon some of the companies are
expected to develop small launch
vehicles or robotic Rovers to explore
its surface the research is meant to get
help to help astronauts get back to the
moon more quickly and keep them safer
once they arrive the space agency says
that it will award a total of 2.6
billion dollars to private businesses
for the moon effort over the next 10
years bridenstine said that NASA wants a
lot of companies involved to strengthen
competition
he also said he has he expected the
people to have have regularly working on
the moon within ten years the new
partnership is modeled after another
NASA program that uses private companies
to transport supplies to the
International Space Station or ISS
SpaceX and Northup Grumman have made
made ISS shipments since 2012 SpaceX and
Boeing are planned to start transporting
astronauts to the space station sometime
next year NASA has said it expects work
on a new Space Station laboratory
to start as soon as 2020 to the new
Space Station would orbit the moon but
it is also expected to serve as a
launching point for missions to other
parts of the solar system including the
planet Mars wow this is cool it's
starting remember go for a while yeah
but like it was the 70s when we last
went to the moon
1972 crazy I want them to use lidar can
they use light are there what would you
use lidar for I don't know could didn't
we use lighter before - there's not a
lot of trees on the moon yeah
no but can't you use it to go
subterranea no not to that degree
oh it's lidar is going to is basically
for surface measuring so so you'd see
like the rivets and the the canyons and
things like that mm-hmm
but its surface could you discover KSM
yeah I suppose
but there's knobs on the surface of the
moon already - for the most part yeah
when did they do that
well like you can find maps of the moon
all over the place like oh there's this
crater here and there's like they're
regularly studying the moon it'd be
interesting once there's a Space Station
orbiting the moon though I think about
an orbit and I think about how the
distance side of the moon because the
moon doesn't rotate right how it's good
Dark Side of the Moon the dark side is
kind of oh great we just done monetized
it luckily it wasn't recognizable there
right but it's kind of a mystery to us
yeah that's true in a lot of ways that
is true there are probably aliens on the
other side of the Moon I I don't think
that no no but what I do like about this
is that it is pushing the limits of our
research and technology the fact that
they want people to do experiments on
the moon within the next you know
several years is neat 2022 is not far
off - no it's not but I mean like if you
think about those two twins that went
into space or the one went into space
the was on earth and how their genetic
makeup changed yeah in space it would be
neat to see how you know we do
experiments here on earth and how being
in a zero-gravity
very happy and an environment would
change things and is that going to
change the way that we look at physics
and all that kind of stuff it'd be very
interesting to see how it pushes the
envelope to say what is possible at the
same time though I go there's probably
gonna be some stupid person who's going
to go hey let's use those rocket
boosters and see how high we can get H
and they're doing a solo spacesuit
mission well that would be the end of
the stupid person people don't make it
all the way to the moon maybe but they
used to be pretty intelligent to make it
all the way to the moon a billion
dollars gonna be enough like I feel like
just a rocket launch is like a hundred
billion or something just for all the
fuel and everything you know what SpaceX
has been working on reusable yes the
targets which is a huge deal drives the
cost lower oh man
does it ever and and being able to go up
and down and up and down like that's
revolutionary that's changing I can
change things for sure I think for me
what is so exciting is this is now three
weeks that we've had new nos NASA story
exactly new information about missions
to Mars yes now the moon like what was
last week
last week was Mars wasn't it last week
was my Rover I think and there was there
was wonder yeah this is the third week
NASA yeah but I love space exploration I
love it I love don't wait until it
starts I know still feel because as a
Star Trek fan I feel like we're like
we're just small here on earth earth is
small and we're small honored to see
that picture from from insight looking
back from almost to Mars looking back
toward Earth and seeing the moon and
seeing earth this big in the picture you
think oh my goodness yeah yeah that is
astonishing like this that that picture
blows my mind
mm-hmm because I have to put myself into
the fact that that is reality that's a
real picture the first time in his
story and and mankind has mankind has
done that it's exciting what could come
space exploration and everything else
space exploration and deep-sea
exploration are both my favorite things
me as well yeah as a fan of Seaquest I
feel like we're gonna conquer space
before we conquer the sea though do you
really think so yeah huh I don't know
because the sea is finite it is but we
don't spend enough time exploring the
sea we're space it's like Oh on the moon
we did have a space station orbiting the
moon yeah and we may have a station of
some sort on Mars at some point
hopefully within my lifetime because I'd
be really proud to be a part of that I
will yeah just don't croak in the next
10 years I hope not and on that note
dark Microsoft has announced that it is
enabling users to log into their
Microsoft accounts without usernames and
passwords instead of passwords which the
tech behemoth has previously described
as inconvenient insecure and expensive
Windows 10 users can switch to physical
security keys or biometrics based
Windows hello for authentication
Microsoft's announcement says this
combination of ease of use security and
broad industry support is going to be
transformational every month more than
800 million people use a Microsoft
account to create connect and share from
anywhere to Outlook office onedrive Bing
Skype and Xbox Live for work and play
and now they can all benefit from this
simple user experience and greatly
improved security beyond the security
key there are also the options to verify
users with Windows window Hallows fate
iris or fingerprint recognition as well
as with the help of the Microsoft
Authenticator app for Android and iOS
don't rush to forget your Windows
password just yet however
there may be a few things to do or
eventually buy before you can possibly
consign your password to history and use
biometrics or PIN to access services
such as outlook office Skype onedrive
and Xbox Live the new authentication
option will work only on the company's
edge browser which began to support the
web authen password free logins standard
earlier this year you also need the
latest Windows 10 version which is
version 1809 also known as the October
2018 update also known as living hell
right when I read that earlier I was
like hmm you need to use edge right
there come on now okay so earlier today
I realized that I couldn't remember my
password and I thought to myself
biometrics that would be a thing that
would be a good thing but would you use
edge I would never use that come on now
but I would however probably trust my
fingerprint more than I trust my brain I
feel like in and that's it like our
phones now our biometric based I'm I'm
actually I bought my coffee from
Starbucks today using biometrics which
was cool it was the first time I've ever
done that so I had to actually put my
fingerprint on the fingerprint scanner
and it charged my accountant and I'm
done and now my coffee is paid for and I
drove away right I was happy it's really
neat and I'll eventually get a free one
after 10 coffees which is kind of neat I
like that yeah so biometrics is
comfortable we're kind of living in that
world now I felt like Microsoft edge
Microsoft to say ok we're going to
they're saying we're gonna innovate but
really this is just catching up to what
is expected of you now as a software
vendor but and I'm limiting you this is
like when ActiveX came out like that
dick ulis see I feel like maybe this is
an incorrect assessment but to me it
feels like Mark Microsoft is always
behind the game and they're trying to
play catch-up by forcing you into their
stuff you know
Microsoft is notorious for is absolutely
and we're gonna talk about yes and also
but they're also notorious for thinking
that they can push technology they can
they can't they're not good they're not
Google and I say that with all due
respect there was a time when Microsoft
was innovative yeah and the leader
that's not who Microsoft is anymore
Miller soft is now a follower and and as
a follower they think that they can
continue to lead and they and they
cannot do that with the old mindset the
old mindset was Mac versus Windows and
so if you're on Windows you will do it
the way that we say right way that we
set it up for you right now there are
other options out there Microsoft sorry
so I'm using Google Chrome I'm not about
to switch to Microsoft edge there is no
way in heck I second that I hate using
Bing Oh Bing is garbage so it's horrible
you think about that as well go back to
Ask Jeeves oh my goodness funny about it
but Microsoft still has that old mindset
where they think that by container izing
the features this this is where Nintendo
was a year ago
yes Nintendo was here a year ago and
they are finally wising up they're
starting to because people have
backlashed
right can I ask a question that is more
about the biometric side of things so
for security reasons because they they
said that it's more secure to use
biometrics my question to you is could
and I just imagine this happening maybe
from movies I don't know
could somebody reassign your
fingerprints as their fingerprint or
reassign yes right what a scary thing is
yeah he can unlock my phone yeah she's
my twin see that's my question
facial recognition through photos or
videos like that right or or can you
like hack into somebody's system and
make your iris now their iris so that
they can never get into their
only you can we've had talks with
security professionals in the past here
on the show get on to our website
category 5 TV I wish I had it ready for
you but I wasn't I wasn't ready for the
question but we have had that discussion
where it's like who are you Yeah right
like certain like phishing scams and
everything ransomware they go out and
they randomly pick people they're
completely random because it's easy it's
there's not any effort that goes into it
from the hacker standpoint to get you to
cough up some Bitcoin mm-hmm when it
comes to biometrics how difficult and
how much labor and money and an ability
has to go into forging someone's
fingerprints and iris in order to access
their devices you have to be that I'm
not that person right I'm not that
person who would be susceptible to that
attack now if I was the president of a
financial institution I might be that
person right then I would need to worry
about those types of attacks and so I
would presumably have protection in
place for those things mm-hmm it's burn
eraser tips but you know what I mean I'm
not that person that they're gonna
invest in hacking my Google account it's
still I guess it's just worrisome to me
because I think to myself I would delve
right into this because I have a hard
time remembering my passwords and I have
a password manager that I locked myself
out of cuz I can't remember that
password so I think when it comes to
biometrics there needs to be a fail-safe
of you know what's the way to log in and
what's the way to fake login so that you
lock your account like ie like with your
fingers say you use your index finger to
unlock your phone but you set your
middle finger as the one that locks down
your device so if you you know like say
you're you know it was brought up in the
chat room you know you're crossing the
border in a country says if you want to
come in you need to unlock your phone we
need to see what's on there and you go
here you just you know use the finger as
a phone lock says sorry again I don't
know and then they shoot you in the face
well Jeff you gotta be careful man
not that far but no like I mean but that
does bring it to question the idea if
all of your devices are locked by
biometrics at what point from a legal
standpoint can the law enforcement push
the envelope because that's a whole new
avenue of being able to get in I mean
you've got the encryption and how many
phones have now gone to courts where the
police is like we need access to the
phone we got to get the fingerprint well
they already take your fingerprints when
you go there they already have them they
can unlock all your stuff that's not the
same I know there's no way yeah but
there's laws with all that and if you
use it aro Gnaeus ly then it kinda gates
anything they find on there they can't
use it on this mon coeur blahblah ball
that kind of stuff but it does bring in
a question like how much of our stuff do
we want to be accessible by one access
point it's no different than saying you
don't want the same password for all
your devices mm-hmm you don't want the
same password to login to everything
because once that's compromised you're
toast my fingerprint is one password but
but if everything was su a m-- Li
difficult borderline impossible for an
average for now person to hack that yep
but and it is to factor because they
have to have my device but it doesn't
change the fact that it's still possible
I mean the amount of people that say oh
it's never gonna happen to me and they
go yeah I got caught I mean how many
companies go we've got nothing perfectly
ting edge security nobody's gonna hack
our database nobody will say that these
days nobody would say that nice days but
so how can I make the say that they're
liars that's how we know they're liars
when I get emails when my customers get
emails saying we can get you on the
first page of Google
guaranteed okay you're a liar yes oh I
know immediately because of that
guarantee the brain will guarantee you
are a liar so I don't trust you
automatically because nobody can make
that guarantee unless I'm paying through
the teeth for ads right so now I can do
that myself without you yeah I still I
still bring it in a question I mean I
don't think everything should be linked
to biometrics okay I don't I know that
that's the way the world's going but I I
think at the end of the day if you have
everything linked through biometrics all
it takes is one breach and everything is
accessible to me
yeah just to wrap up the thought my
phone when I use my fingerprint to
unlock my phone mm-hmm every so many
times it requires me to also enter my
pen that's actually true of my phone as
well if my gallon is turned off I have
to use my pin in order to turn it back
on yes yes so it is to factor I cannot
turn on my phone without my pen and I
cannot unlock my phone without either my
pin or my fingerprint so I have to have
both of those things pin fingerprint to
faster plus I have to have the device
which is actually three factor
authentication because I have to have
unless you have the service set up where
you can activate it through say like if
you got a samsung phone that the Samsung
service it's just like we don't have
that no I know but that it's no
different than like calling OnStar and
saying unlock my car it's the same deal
I don't know anything about it Jeff okay
we'll find that but I'll tell you why
there's nothing that is perfect these
days I think every effort needs to be
made in order to secure your devices and
your accounts sure exactly all that you
can do so it's really just educating
ourselves we have an extremely
intelligent community we'd love to know
your comments please email us or comment
below if you're watching this on youtube
that would be fantastic let us know your
thoughts about how you secure your
devices obviously without giving us all
the secrets right don't tell us your
password yeah yeah but we'd love to know
what do you recommend in a case like
doubting Thomas over here who thinks
that nothing can ever be secure or a
case like me where I need it to be easy
enough that I can actually access my
stuff for me who is so trusting that I
buy my coffee with my fingerprint right
so Microsoft's own surface book 2 is
affected by the reflected by the blue
screen of death errors following the
most recent software updates if you're
running a surface book 2 you might want
to hold off on the latest cumulative
update that is making owners irate the
blue screen of death first began
occurring on the devices shortly after
the update kv-4 4 6 7
6a 2 was pushed out during last
Tuesday's updates this update is for
users of the 1803 build of Windows 10
also known as the April 2018 update it
contains several fixes as well as
including some issues relating to the
seek bar in Windows Media Player and
some dotnet problems add to that list
Rick's your surface book to to the point
where you have to reinstall windows it
isn't a good thing for Microsoft's
flagship laptop especially this close to
Christmas with a high price tag users
right might write expect that user that
Microsoft's own device should showcase
the very best of how Windows should be
while the patch can be uninstalled
because of blue screen so quickly some
users have had to resort to reinstalling
the operating system from scratch wow
this is the very company we're talking
about who makes the operating system and
they make advice and they brick their
own device can you imagine this this is
happening to you and so you try to login
and try to remove that KB and yeah just
like that so you just need to have a
better product testing Department fire
or they need to have a product testing
department like I just I think how many
stories have we covered we're like
somehow they royally mess it up like I
think of the the AI chat bot that was
really racist really quick Microsoft's
yeah yeah yeah they had to pull the plug
on that pretty quickly yeah like just
the amount I just don't like that they
do these updates that ruin my life at
work and this is a case where okay this
is 1803 so that means people who are not
early adopters right they're still on
April's exact RAF yeah I have had their
devices brick but these are the modern
system from Microsoft so you would think
you would be safe buying the you know
yeah you'd hope so yeah you're not no
you're not sorry folks you're not
Nintendo has relaxed its rules for video
makers who share their gameplay on
websites such as twitch in YouTube
unlike Microsoft and Sony Nintendo has
restricted what it let video makers
share online and took a slice of
advertising revenue from youtubers its
new guidelines lift most of the
restrictions and no longer us are asking
gaming vloggers to register for
Nintendo's revenue sharing scheme
Nintendo said it was humbled by its fans
loyalty many video makers had complained
about Nintendo's policy and avoided
sharing gameplay videos online because
the company often filed copyright claims
on the content the company said in a
statement as long as you follow some
basic rules we will not object to your
use of gameplay footage and or
screenshots captured from games which
Nintendo owns the copyrights he points
in the new guidelines say one gamers
will be able to share videos playing
Nintendo software as long as they
include their own creative input or
commentary to video makers will be
allowed to earn advertising revenue from
their videos using approved schemes
including YouTube's partner program and
the twitch partner program and three
uploading raw gameplay videos without
any commentary will not be allowed
except for sharing short screen captures
using the built in tools on the Nintendo
switch the changes were announced
shortly before the release of Super
Smash Brothers ultimate this Friday
which is expected to be a popular title
for online streamers hmm that's cool so
now we get to start our Nintendo switch
channel oh yeah and I have a switch
bring it next week we'll say ok I'll
bring anything I'm gonna test them and
we will find out if this is legit and
we'll see if we D monetize that video
okay III would be interested to know
what their definition of commentary is
for instance if you upload a one hour
video right at the beginning you say
this is me playing my Nintendo switch
I'm playing this game nothing until the
end oh yeah no nope doesn't work that
well III know it doesn't bear at what
point do they take the cream
of Alamut Donovan go sorry you didn't
say enough individual comments we're not
letting you do that no I think it's just
it's like royalty free music like I
can't I can't just publish the music
online and let people download it from
my website yes it's free yes it's
royalty free and you can download it for
free but if I want to distribute it and
redistribute it I have to put something
into it so whether I rap along or sing
along or add my own talking over top and
use a music bed underneath that's okay
but if I upload a gameplay footage and
you get to hear everything and see
everything and there's nobody talking
and and and reacting to it then that's
where they have an issue see what I
think I've been feel horrible for saying
this and somebody's probably gonna you
know yell at me on YouTube because we're
gonna get a bunch of kids going so I'm
playing my game and gotten to me it
already happens I know but it's like
that's like that's do you know what
sucks is that we are trying to compete
against those people oh I'm sorry I
don't if I'm gonna watch a review I want
it to be informative and be like okay so
this is actually running into you want
to go here do this right right right
right but you're an adult I know my kids
like my 8 year old absolutely loves
watching kids doing stuff on YouTube
watching cats and and if I was that
parent of those children who are making
those videos I'd be so proud that
they're doing it but they're yeah that's
a college fund right there they've
monetized their own stuff the top
earners on YouTube are kids
essentially like they're just playing
video games or unboxing toys I know yeah
hey according to coin gecko here's what
the crypto market looked like as of
looks like about 1800 hours while we
shot this Wednesday December 5th 2018
this week Bitcoin went down even further
three thousand seven hundred and twenty
two dollars
that is a drop of about four hundred and
sixty nine dollars over last time so it
continues to decline of course Bitcoin
being what controls the market it is
affecting other coins as well like coin
is down to twenty nine dollars and forty
cents per light coin that's a loss of
five dollars and ten cents u.s.
aetherium is down to 103 fifty-six which
is a loss of eighteen dollars and eleven
cents everything's going down including
Manero which is really hurting right now
fifty-two dollars and 74 cents per
Manero when I started mining Manero it
was up about 200 bucks
so that's another loss of about ten
dollars and thirty-six cents over the
past seven days stellite the little guys
they're pretty static this week they're
at two dollars and or pardon me not two
dollars and fifty-six two point five six
ten thousandth of a cent these are
really little coins turtle coin and so
that's about what they had last week two
point five seven is last week's total
turtle coin down as well lost point
fourteen ten thousandth of a cent so
that is putting them at zero point four
to ten thousands of us and knowing that
turtle coin for example is base the
value of turtle coin is based on
stellite which is a billionth I believe
of a Bitcoin yep so because bitcoin is
down of course you can just see other
currencies like turtle coin go down as
well because it's based on that so you
can think of the US dollar and how the
Canadian dollar really plays on to the
US dollar and our value of our currency
here in Canada is based upon the value
of how it matches up to the US dollar
right so similarly that's what we see
with crypto currency as well Jeff last
week you had some commentary that you
wanted to add and I cut you off and
after the show we had a little bit of
talk what do you think is affecting
crypto currency right now I don't
remember you don't remember I don't
remember the conversation talked a
little bit about it and and I theorized
and and you know I think that a lot of
it has to do with people not really
understanding how the operates and how
so there's almost becoming a bit of a
stigma around crypto currency where
people start to think of it as a hack
coin yes yep exact that thing because
whenever I hear about ransomware I hear
Bitcoin is involved well
Bitcoin and and various crypto
currencies being and Manero is a perfect
example of an untraceable coin so if a
hacker were to encrypt your files and
demand Mineiro it's because they can't
you can't the government can't trace
that transaction they can't figure out
who you paid that to so that puts a
really bad spin on cryptocurrency and I
think that because the general
population really controls how much is
being invested and how much is being
mined and everything else then that
really has an impact on the current
standing that's true and one of the
other reasons so now that you've
mentioned that it's drawing my memory
okay one of the other reasons why I
believe that it's struggling is because
in the last couple of months we've had a
lot of environmental impact
conversations about the cost so as
mining Bitcoin and so for that reason
you've got people freaking out going
it's more costly to mine Bitcoin than it
is to physically mine gold yeah and the
dollar value so you know it's stuff like
that and people are going why I'm I'm
you know I'm getting out of Bitcoin I
don't want to do that anymore and it's
like any other commodity when people
walk away their the value goes down so
what is interesting there is we know
that in Nvidia stocks are way down yeah
and they're struggling and so if people
are losing a little bit of faith in
their mining rig now all of a sudden on
the market the market becomes saturated
with the users video cards yes right
right GPUs because the mining rigs are
shutting down if that's presumably the
case I I don't know but there's a good
theory for you if the mining rig shut
down well what do I do I get on eBay and
I sell off my mining rig which is a
bunch of great GPUs ten seventies ten
80s and and things like that so now
Nvidia starts to plummet because
nobody's buying them direct they're not
buying the new cards they're buying
these used ones that have been used for
mining yeah it would be so interesting
to see if somebody came up with a new
coin that wasn't compared to the Bitcoin
it wasn't you know valued against
chateau
because Santosh you see Satoshi it'd be
interesting to see because right now
everything is linked to it so as it
drops everything else drops so if
somebody came along and said you know
what we've got a whole new coin it's
based on a different algorithm it's not
even linked to that it's a whole new way
of looking at it and to see how that
takes off and somebody goes oh if I
throw my mining rig into that think I'm
much I can gain and it changes the
market like it would be very interesting
to see it'd be no different than if if
the global economy said you know we're
not we're no longer vested in the US
dollar we want to go to the euro and if
the euro became the benchmark currency
how it would change the game yeah it'd
be interesting to see and if it could be
done I don't know regardless I mean it's
the whole market that's affected so just
a reminder that cryptocurrency is always
volatile and is always changing the
values fluctuate we give you a weekly
stat as of today when we're filming but
realistically I mean through the week it
drops and it rises and it drops and it
rises the market never closes it's not
like the stock market that closes at
5:00 p.m. and everyone goes home no
right it's 24/7 so it's always changing
and we will have updates as they come
for you thank you a big thanks to Roy W
Nash in our community of viewers from
submitting stories to us this week
thanks for watching the category-five TV
newsroom don't forget to Like and
subscribe for all your tech news with a
slight Linux bias and for more free
content be sure to check out our website
from the category-five TV newsroom I'm
Sasha Rickman I'm Robbie Ferguson yeah
I'm Jeff Weston thank you so much for
being here with us again this week I
hope you have had fun it's been great
being here with you and I look forward
to seeing you again next week every week
we look forward to it that's true we
look forward to it and I hope you do too
we'll see you next week bye
