welcome to the show this is category
five technology TV episode number 602
this week we have a couple of tinkerer
boards a tinkerer board two gig and a
tinker board s these are single board
computers about the same form factor as
a Raspberry Pi we're going to get into
the box and fire went up and see how
they operate for us as well also we have
our maker of the month and we're gonna
be looking at a very cool project on a
Raspberry Pi stick around our live
recordings our trusted only two
solid-state drives by Kingston
technology revive your computer with
improved performance and reliability
over traditional hard drives with
Kingston SSDs category 5 TV streams live
with Telestream wire cast and nimble
streamer tune in every week on roku Kodi
Plex and other HLS video players for
local show times visit category 5 TV
category 5 TV is a member of the tech
podcast network if it stuck it's here
cap 5 TV slash TPN and the international
association of internet broadcasters cat
5 dot TV slash iai be everybody I'm
Robbie I'm Sasha
and I'm back whoa no I'm Jeff how you
been my man good I've been away for a
couple of weeks cuz yeah Sasha and I
were talking before each broadcast ok
well what are we gonna say Jeff's
excuses I think last week's was like you
were getting your teeth flossed or
something like that I beard per yep we
had to we had to let the viewers know
that we were still thinking of
we've got a fantastic show planned for
you tonight Before we jump into it
though
make sure that you subscribe to us on
YouTube and while you're there click
that bell in order to receive
notifications whenever we're live or
when we post exciting new materials so
you both are subscribed on YouTube
you've clicked the bell you get the
notifications Geoff said before the show
what did you say look in relation to the
current conversation so if you were to
take what I was saying and actually use
context probably figure out what we said
before the show yeah that was fantastic
but yeah he noticed that we were live
because YouTube's notified him that
category-five TV was live and that's
something that you can get just by
simply clicking that bell as well we're
gonna be looking at the Asuza tinker
board not only the tinker board 2
gigabyte but also the S model which is
the newer kind of enhanced version and I
want to look at what makes those two
devices different because they're very
very close together so when I jump over
there and we're gonna get a look at
these devices absolutely folks so first
of all we've got the tinker board 2
gigabyte and the tinker board s so 2
gigabyte I mean this is the this is the
original model they call it the 2 GB and
then we've got the S as well before I
start I want to mention that we have a
coupon code if you want to head on over
to Ameritrade com we all know and love
them you can save up to $25 off of this
board if you use the coupon code
ATB s dollar sign 25 off just like you
see on your screen down there this one
here we can save $7.00 a TB dollar sign
7 off got it ok so first of all we're
gonna jump into the tinkerer board the
this is the original tinker board
packaging this is the tinker board 2
gigabyte
and let's just jump right into it folks
I'm really excited about these because a
soos has taken the form factor of a
Raspberry Pi and said okay well let's
actually give it a little bit more
powerful a little more power and
definitely you know to two times the
amount of memory on this board so we've
got two gigabytes of onboard memory
we've got 4k video output at 30 frames
per second we still have a Raspberry Pi
GPIO however the ticker board as you see
is quite cleverly color coded and it's a
it's a lovely looking board if you if
you can say that but if you can see it
it looks very very much like a Raspberry
Pi or a Raspberry Pi 3 as far as the
form factor goes and so much so we're
gonna see tonight that it's in fact so
similar that it'll work in the in the
case what else do we have in the box for
the tinker board 2 gigabyte we've got a
heatsink and some paper work
instructions which will just kind of put
back in the box okay Jeff okay he's like
read the manual alright so there is the
tinker board and now let's get into the
tinker board s so this is the next model
and this is kind of I would say that
this is an enhanced version of the same
board what do we notice it it looks the
same it looks like a data collide
entacle be careful label them whatever
you need to do make sure you know what
what one is what so on the right hand
side of your screen that is the tinker
board S on the left hand side of your
screen as the tinker board 2 gigabyte
what about underneath is there different
identification on the bottom what is
different here
okay similar yeah we've got green on the
tinker board and what does it say I'm
gonna turn this around so I can see it
says revision 1.2 on this one it's blue
blue text on the the PCB and
says strangely revision 1.01 huh wait a
minute this is a lower revision however
it does say tinker board s let's get a
focus on that so you can see oh yeah
there it is so it says right on it
tinker board asked revision 1.01 in the
box again heatsink for the cpu they are
the the SOC and some information I saw
that there is a diagram for the the GPIO
which is important for us if we're gonna
start making and let's get rid of the
box let's get rid of all the packaging
okay specifications wise the SOC on both
of these boards are identical so this is
1.8 gigahertz and the SOC of these
boards is the rk3288 that is a quad core
our SOC on the board we have 2 gigabytes
of ddr4 ram on both of these boards so
so far they're identical same SOC or to
put that in terms that we understand a
little better will say CPU
system-on-chip as SOC so it's like a CPU
that has that is for the single board
computing we've got two gigabytes of and
I said ddr4 I beg your pardon it is ddr3
on these boards the GPU is actually
pretty impressive at 4k 30 I believe it
is it's a Mallee t7 64 on both of these
boards so again they're identical up to
this point 802 11 B G and n Wi-Fi is
integrated into both of these boards and
Gigabit Ethernet so if we're looking at
this from the perspective of a Raspberry
Pi and people are saying on YouTube you
know why do you constantly compare these
single board computers to raspberry PI's
and part of that is because we're all
familiar with a Raspberry Pi yes we can
agree that we all know what a Raspberry
Pi looks like and how it operates and
what it is and its form factors so if I
say hey this is the same form
factor as a Raspberry Pi er this is the
same shape and same size as a Raspberry
Pi 3 you can grasp what that means and
so I'm not saying I'm not trying to
compare to a Raspberry Pi but it's a
benchmark and they've certainly sent the
set the bar for single board computers
and both of these systems are so close
in form factor to a Raspberry Pi 3 that
you can in fact use a Raspberry Pi case
for these devices cool that's handy as I
mentioned both have the color-coded GPIO
which is helpful if you are a tinkerer
but why then if these are so identical
they've got the same SOC they've got the
same amount of RAM the same type of RAM
the same the same malli graphics adapter
they've got great audio these actually
have fantastic audio 192 24-bit HD audio
so 192 kilohertz so it's it's like
better than CD quality excellent audio
coming off of both these boards if you
want to use them for audio or like if
you want to put this in as a like a
music player or something like that on
your on your home theater system be
perfect for that so what sets these two
apart
well the tinkerer board ass takes things
a little bit to the next level let's
look at the backside of the tinkerer
board and the tinkerer board s we see
that both of these have a micro SD card
reader do you see this so this is gonna
take your storage however there's one
thing that's a little bit different on
the S model and I think that's what
we're looking at right there we have in
fact 16 gigabytes now we do have the SD
card reader micro sd but we also have 16
gigabytes of emmc storage built into
this board so this is something that we
have not seen in a lot of SBC's
typically we have to buy extra storage
for RS pcs this one has 16 gigabytes
built in so where we would normally have
to flash to an emmc card or to an SD
card with the tinker board s we in fact
can plug in and an OT like OTG cable or
a USB cable
into the into the board fired up and
actually flashed directly to the emmc
that is on chip so the storage is built
in we don't have to buy that separately
it's all there it also has bluetooth 4.0
+ edr so if you want to use it with
wireless speakers wireless headphones
those kinds of things or any other
Bluetooth device that is built into the
ass and those are kind of the core
differences with those two boards this
is just an enhanced version with the
emmc with the Bluetooth and otherwise
they're pretty much identical as far as
I can see so I mentioned that we can
actually use raspberry pi K so I've
pulled out a KK SB case and let's get a
look at this and see how this is going
to work so this I don't know if you can
see is a Raspberry Pi 3 case from kks B
okay so if what I'm saying is true the
tinkerer board should work perfectly
within this case which was in fact
designed for a Raspberry Pi so if I put
that in there now I have of course four
screws that I'm going to screw in if I
was doing this as a like a permanent
installation but just for the sake of
our demonstration we can see that the
holes do a line up see those okay audio
HDMI everything lines up and how does
everything else line up here let's put
the cover on the case I love kks be
cases by the way these are these are
steel cases not aluminum and they are
very high quality so that is a tinkerer
board s now inside a Raspberry Pi 3 case
from KK SB and look at how beautiful
that looks that is perfect and that nice
so we have links for all of these
products if you'd like to support the
show or if you just want an easy way to
get these go to cat5 dot TV slash tinker
board and we're gonna have the case
we're going to have the boards as well
plus the links to a marriage ride the
coupon code
everything else I'm gonna jump over to
to the set here bring it with me yeah
let's go so head on over to cap five dot
TV slash tinker bored to check these out
when we come back from a quick break
we're gonna actually plug this in I'm
gonna fire it up and we're gonna see how
it performs right after this for a
limited time get your hands on
limited-edition shirts from the category
5 TV network these high-quality shirts
are manufactured by teespring a
fundraising website and your purchase
will help support the shows we produce
get yours today and send us your
pictures to be featured on the
corresponding show visit cap 5 dot TV
slash shirts to support us and get your
official network shirt today cap five
dot TV slash shirts
[Music]
welcome back this is category five
technology TV and today we are looking
at the Asus tinkerer board and we've got
the tikar board s as well and I've fired
it up with Tinker OS so just during the
break there we plugged it in there it
only took about ten seconds yes right if
any so I downloaded it from their
website I flashed it to an SD card just
for the sake of the show just be able to
plug it in because we have never tested
this we just unboxed it for you and have
fired it up so let's jump over to the
asou stinker board on Tinker OS and here
we are in April 2019 this is what it
looks like so first of all as a Linux
user it looks like LXDE right out of the
box and looks great I mean super
responsive now I'm looking at the asou
stinker board two gigabyte here today
and of course the the s is going to be
more powerful so out of the box we have
just generic kind of tools we've got
them on there like a text editor
calculator which is calculator and I say
I do say that with like a Linux yeah
let's just call it calculator shall we
under education we've got scratch
scratch GPIO internet what do we have we
have chromium this is all out of the box
folks I haven't installed anything VNC
viewer under programming we've got
idle which is Python scratch again and
sound a video we've got a media player
system tools so let's let's jump up to
you know if we've jumped into Chrome
just to kind of gauge how things run now
with this device of course this is a
single board computer and it literally
is like what you see is what you get
I've just plugged in HDMI and power and
a micro SD card and I've got a wireless
dongle for my mouse so right so you can
you can connect everything together and
boot it up and you're you're good to go
so whether you plug that into a TV via
HDMI if you plug that into a computer
screen it becomes a computer whatever
you want to use it for so it's got the
GPIO you can connect things like just
like you can with a Raspberry Pi if you
want to we've become a maker and start
doing like LED lights is a good place to
start I think that's a really great spot
to start and and then take it from there
but it's a lot more powerful than then
you know like a Raspberry Pi and I hate
to say that because I know it like
that's that is the baseline like
Raspberry Pi has created a baseline so
what we're looking at is a board that is
the same form factor it operates much
the same way it uses the same kind of
software it's got the same kind of GPIO
but it's a lot faster right it's got
twice as much RAM and it operates really
really well so a seuss doesn't quite
have the I mean they they by far do not
have the same community as say Raspberry
Pi right they don't have the same kind
of open-source community that you would
find in like Pine 64 and and it's
growing but it's it's not quite there
yet so we can become a part of that by
by purchasing one of these getting up
and running and playing around so over
the next little while we're gonna start
to see some benchmark coming in right
our giggle scores are going to start
coming in with NEMS Linux if you're
interested in seeing how these kind of
boards these single board computers
benchmark against one another you can
head over to Nevins Linux comm slash
stats and you'll be able to see each of
these boards and how
performing and how they stack up so a
giggle score shows you the value for the
money and speaking of we do have a
coupon which really plays into that yes
so you can actually save $25 off of the
cost of the issues tinker board s which
is the the the model that has the
Bluetooth has the emmc built in so I'm
going to post the links for you below in
the description so that you've got
access to those and all the information
is available at our website cap v dot TV
slash tinker board so out of the box not
a lot comes pre-installed but of course
this is Linux and the S has a 16
gigabyte emmc and of course either board
you can plug in a an SD card micro SD
and that gives you extra space as well
and so you can install pretty much
anything you like so what package
manager do we have here do we have
anything file manager we've got h2 what
do we have under preferences let's see
did you do synaptic package manager so
we have synaptic already installed so
this is a Debian based OS it's asking me
for a password which I can get off of
now I installed tinker OS so I'm gonna
grab that password from them and then
I'm gonna be able to install anything
from the repository so that can be games
that can be anything at all right stuff
very cool so we're gonna be looking at
those in the next little while of course
the comparisons are awesome overrun nems
linux.com I love seeing how each board
stacks up and when we look at the giggle
score which is the value for the money
versus the performance which is really
what we're interested in with these
boards as well we're gonna be able to
see so that coupon that that can affect
the giggle score yeah that's increase
the giggle score make it bad it's gonna
decrease which means the lower it is the
matter value yeah so when you consider
you apply a coupon which is gonna save
you money and now all of a sudden the
value for for the cost mm-hmm is way
better than it is that full price
especially when you're saving 25 bucks
like that's huge
so you can pick up your soos tinker
board a cat5 dot TV slash tinker board
Sasha we're gonna head over to the
newsroom and we've got some great
stories on deck for us so take her away
all right here are the stories were
covering this week in the category 5 TV
newsroom Mark Zuckerberg says regulators
and governments should play a more
active role in controlling Internet
content TP links all-in-one sr20 smart
home router allows arbitrary command
execution from a local network
connection office depot and support com
have settled out of court and cost out
thirty five million dollars after they
were accused of lying to people that
their PCs were infected with malware in
order to charge them cleanup fees and
effective immediately Microsoft is
ending all ebook sales in its Microsoft
Store for Windows PCs these stories are
coming right up don't go anywhere this
is the category 5 TV newsroom covering
the week's top tech space
slow Linux pious Jeff Westen Gemma
you're building a brand-new beautiful
website
what are you alright you're terrible
actor what this where acting comes into
play you're supposed to act I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website just because Jeff is
confused doesn't mean you have to be
visit cap five dot TV slash dream host
to sign up for unlimited web hosting for
your website with unlimited email
accounts MySQL databases the latest
version of PHP WordPress and more and
even a free domain name registration
it's less than six dollars per month so
sign up today cat five dot TV slash
dream host I'm Sachi Rickman and here
are the top stories were following this
week Mark Zuckerberg says regulators and
governments should play a more active
role in controlling Internet content in
an op-ed published in The Washington
Post Facebook's chief says the
responsibility for monitoring harmful
content is too great for firms alone he
calls for new laws in four areas quote
harmful content election integrity
privacy and data portability it comes
two weeks after a gunman used the site
to livestream his attack on a mosque in
Christchurch New Zealand mr. Zuckerberg
writes quote lawmakers often tell me we
have too much power over speech and
frankly I agree
end quote he describes a new set of
rules he would like to see enforced on
tech companies and he says these new
regulations should be the same for all
websites so that it's easier to stop
quote harmful content from spreading
quickly across platforms the letter the
open letter which will also be published
in some European newspapers comes as the
social network faces questions over its
role in the Cambridge analytic a scandal
around data misused during the election
campaigns the site has also been
criticised for failing to stop the
spread of footage of the Christchurch
killings in which fifty Muslims died as
they prayed mr. Zuckerberg sledder did
not specifically name these incidents
however the site earlier announced that
it was considering introducing
restrictions on live-streaming in the
wake
of the Christchurch attacks on Thursday
it also said that it would banned white
nationalism and separatism from the site
on Friday it also started labeling
political ads appearing on Facebook in
EU countries showing how the advertiser
who the advertiser is how much they paid
and who they've targeted mr. Zuckerberg
says quote Facebook has a responsibility
to help address these issues and I'm
looking forward to discussing them with
lawmakers around the world
end quote hmm I don't envy them for sure
Wow so yeah I mean it's it's a heavy
it's a heavy topic and I think that
means yes I think that mr. Zuckerberg
has bitten off more than he can chew and
now realizes it I think he's bang on
though and stating that this should not
necessarily fall on the shoulders of the
individual site creators right and we
know that Facebook is misstepped over
content privacy and and some of the
decisions that they've made we know that
but they're also a company right they're
not regulators they're not there to you
know they're not that they're their goal
wasn't to become content regulators
right but that's something that they
have to do their guys need to be laws
made in that regard I just I don't envy
them because like you create platforms
you create things thinking that they're
gonna be used for good yeah I hear the
topic aside my problem the one that's
really irking me with this story is I
feel like this is nothing more than a PR
passing of the buck like we there's an
essence of that we've I just gone
through this massive investigation sure
in Congress and all that kind of stuff
dealing with Facebook and what's going
on in the Internet
and the whole time sucker votes like I
don't want to talk about we like we just
sell ads that's what we do it's not our
problem we don't know how people use a
platform and now he turns around and
goes government you got to take control
like it's it's a complete about-face and
like it to me it sounds like a PR thing
because he's gonna get lambaste it again
for not having a little bit Jeff but but
I do agree with the fact that you know
what you screwed it up somebody else has
to yeah it's in place it's I feel like
this is a little bit him saying this is
just too much for me and it's true it is
too much for him well it is yes for his
companies right I'm sure its company
like if I founded a company that have
this really great feature set I don't
ever think oh this is going to be used
for this purpose right exhaust where I'm
like yeah it's definitely a PR thing but
at the same time I would be beside
myself as a CEO as a as a founder of a
company to to be like okay what the heck
am I gonna do right like this is not
what this was built for well it's not
but I mean at the end of the day if
technology has taught us anything it's
that the original purpose is not what it
ends up getting shoes for when it comes
to humans we right find another way to
use it okay and I as a creative person
notice though no I know but is he not
correct at least to some degree and
saying that this should not all fall on
him his company and and similarly it
shouldn't all fall on YouTube and Google
and it shouldn't offer like there should
be yeah because that was never the
intention this is not what it was built
for and also their company is not a
regulator no it's not I agree there
should be some parameters around it I
just what bothers me about this is I
feel like it's it's a total hey I'm not
the problem
when all along he's part of the problem
he started the problem to be clean ya
know there's a car that changed the
internet rules yeah I remember when
Facebook's whole thing was well unless
you tell us not to
we're gonna open you up to the world and
that was a whole new concept and ever
since then Facebook has changed the way
everything's been done on the internet
and now we have this internet world were
in because of the influence of Facebook
so then they turn around and go oh man
we owe it's beyond us it's like what
didn't you think about the power you had
before yeah it's a little bit tough it's
so it's hard I think that right now he
said what he needs to say and he and I
think he knows now yeah there did there
does need to be more involvement and
policies and regulations mm-hmm and he
he can't implement them it needs to be
the government that does yep
and I want to say this with all due
respect and with a certain sensitivity
to what has gone on in Christchurch but
you you are a hunter and so you you
purchase guns yep and some of our
viewers same thing and it's the
responsibility of the regulator's in
order to make sure that those guns are
getting into the hands of hunters and
into law abiding citizens hands yeah
there's not regulations on all that
right and not to make that as a
comparison but just to say isn't it sort
of similar in that it doesn't it
shouldn't fall on the manufacturer or on
the creator of the tool to regulate it
and that there should be I think he's
very correct and saying that this should
be something that the government is
stepping up and regulating I I'm not
saying that I'm for or or anti
regulation I'm just saying maybe it
should be if it has to be regulated
mmm-hmm it should be on a higher level
than the individual companies it
shouldn't fall on Facebook it should
fall on the government because the
government can make that a blanket
regulation that impacts all of these
social media sites if Facebook goes down
and another social media site rises up
I want those same regulations to now
impact the security and privacy and
everything else and and the the way
content streaming is used on those
platforms as much as they were on
Facebook so shouldn't it be the
regulator's or the government that is in
charge of that I I agree that's what
government's role is it's needs to keep
the country and its population safe and
to make sure yeah and it's not just a
physical safety no it's it's so much
more but I mean it's a very it's a very
open-ended conversation and we could
have loads of opinions please share
yours comment below let us know what you
think just post a comment and we'd love
to have that discussion with you
TP links all-in-one sr20 smart home
router allows arbitrary command
connection last Wednesday 90 days after
he informed tp-link of the issue and
received no response
Matthew Garrett a well known Google
security engineer an open-source
contributor disclosed a proof-of-concept
exploit to demonstrate a vulnerability
affecting TP links router the 38 line
script shows that you can execute any
command you choose on the device with
root privileges o without authentication
Garrett explained that TP links Hardware
often incorporates TDD P the tp-link
device debug protocol which has had
multiple vulnerabilities in the past
among them version 1 did not require a
password vulnerability to a local attack
could be exploited if an attacker
manages to get a malicious download onto
a machine connected to an sr20 router
garrett is urging tp-link to provide a
way to report security flaws and not to
ship debug not to ship debug demons on
production firm while firmware so yeah a
router like this so you don't
necessarily think about it but the
router the device that you plug your
internet in
- and all your computers in - is a
computer right and that computer if it's
stupidly configured can like run
arbitrary code or in this case pretty
much anything that the attacker wants to
run on your tp-link router now the first
one didn't require a password but all
the rest of them since then have is that
I suppose it's it has to do with the
first generation of the the firmware
brand and some of that code is still in
existence even in the newer firmware so
they exploit can still affect future
iterations as well but the simple fact
that hey this was reported 90 days prior
and tp-link has not done anything about
it or even responded to the security
researcher is it just kind of shows that
this is this a big problem right and
you're not really taking the necessary
steps to resolve it like when I had if I
had something like this come up and when
I have something come up in my own
malaise yeah like it's dealt with the
same day yeah not ignored for ninety
days not ignored for ninety days like
this is something that is not a small
thing this is the route execution so
understand that's like the administrator
rights to your network and this is the
very device that connects all your
computers together and connects them to
the Internet and with that set are
allowed to run any code tp-link like the
router itself is that like a router that
would be used not only just in homes
that could it be used in offices and
like it clips right yeah I mean it's a
consumer device but well what's what's
the sr20 like if I do a quick search
let's see what the sr20 looks like here
Sasha could EP like if somebody was yeah
it's just a home router okay I mean not
like anyways but I mean how many small
businesses have just a simple home
router I mean that's quite common yeah
so we've discussed how how hard it would
be if something crashed
to back everything to bring it back up
so if you had your router I'm confused
as to like would if somebody went on
into your router could it it could crash
everything not about crashing is that
they can now infiltrate
right access everything and ransomware
is a very big threat right okay so I am
right I'm right on the on the right line
where then you could lose not only the
business now likely it was the aluminum
factory
yeah right the ransomware exactly it's
it's reminiscent of that in my mind okay
I I have these discussions often about
cybersecurity and and you know what what
makes us exploitable and and people
think all and nobody's interested in us
but now that this is publicly known
information it's just a simple script
that goes out on the internet and looks
for these routers and as soon as it
finds them what does it do it installs
arbitrary code into that router now
understand it has to get in through the
land so they have to compromise a
computer to get into the router but when
they do now they can run anything so now
and this is what happens they're not
interested in you
quite quite frankly the small business
is using one of those routers as their
home where as their business router yeah
they're probably not interested in what
you have but they might be interested in
your vendors they might be interested in
other companies so all of a sudden
filtrate your network they get access to
your email they get access to the flow
of traffic and they say okay well you're
dealing okay you're dealing with this
vendor maybe it's an aluminum vendor
right let's just put a scenario in there
so now we have your email we have the
capability of sending email from your
email because we've infiltrated your
router we know who your vendor is this
aluminum company and now we're gonna
send them our code and we're going to
disguise it as an invoice sorry right
and as soon as it gets to that aluminum
company now the person who is not
cybersecurity trained and knowledgeable
about watching for phishing attacks and
those kinds of threat
seize that email and says okay you know
here's an invoice from such-and-such
company that okay I'm gonna open that
and guess what now you can see the
ripple effect yeah it's not necessarily
you that is being attacked it's that now
you've got a device that is a
exploitable it could be you that's
attack though and if you're a small
business then it's gonna put you out of
business it is simple
if your backups are not good or if you
can't stand to be offline for 30 days
then guess what I mean we had the
discussion that hydro is a huge company
right beside a manufacturer like they
can recover easily yeah they'll just
absorb it and write it off but a small
company with 10 computers and 10
employees it could put you out of
business very easily so so you know keep
those things in mind when we talk about
these kinds of exploits it's not
something to take lightly and we do
mention them because you need to know
about the exploits that are possible on
your network right you're using one of
those devices the sr20 from tp-link I
think it's probably best that you switch
because they have not patched it yet
nope and it's not looking like they are
well yeah the best predictor of future
behavior is past behavior and for 90
days they've said nothing so yeah and
now it's a publicly known exploit yeah
so that's that's where the problem lies
office Depot and support comm have
settled out of court and coughed up 35
million dollars after they were accused
of lying to people that their PCs were
infected with malware in order to charge
them cleanup fees the lawsuit was
brought against them by the US Federal
Trade Commission which alleged staff at
the tech duo falsely claimed software
nasties were lingering on customers
computers to make a fast buck the
lawsuit filed in southern Florida claims
the two companies including Office Depot
subsidiary office max from 2009 until
November 2016 misrepresented the state
of consumers computers by using a sales
tool designed to convince people to pay
for diagnostic and repair services the
complaint stated quote in a new
innumerous incident instances throughout
this time period defendants used the PC
health check to
ports to Office Depot's company
customers that the scan had found or
identified malware symptoms when it had
not done so
additionally in numerous instances the
PC health check for sleeve reported to
consumers that the program had found
infections on the consumers computer and
quote the according to the watchdogs
complaint the PC health check-up was
incapable of finding malware support com
allegedly programmed the software so
that whenever an office depot company
employee checked any one of four check
boxes describing a generic concern like
slowness before the scan started the
scan would automatically report the
detection of malware symptoms and for a
time infections
the FTC court filing explained the PC
health check-up malware symptoms was
entirely dependent on whether any of the
initial checkbox statements was checked
and not on the actual state of the
computer the cost for PC health check
the defendants according to the FTC
bilked customers out of tens of millions
of dollars to settle the charges Office
Depot has agreed to pay twenty five
million dollars in support com will pay
10 million dollars the money will be
refunded to affected customers so oh wow
can you imagine training somebody okay
when somebody comes in and they want
their computer to be checked just make
sure you check one of those boxes
because it may not be that simple set
they probably didn't know I mean I
haven't seen the stuff but I mean you're
not gonna make that widely spread to go
hey by the way we're gonna scam
everybody they probably just just said
find out what they're in for
oh my computer slow or my you know you
got to remember these are like employees
at a retailer right they're not
necessarily highly educated technicians
these are folks that they check off the
box and they and the software tells them
what they're supposed to respond with
yeah oh well the software tells me
like that yeah you probably have malware
so like it's like could you imagine if
the medical field was like that's like
do you have a cough yes it's cancer
you're telling me that the medical field
isn't like that it kind of is question
really did this story yes
so this scan had no actual ability to
detect whether or not anything was wrong
no I don't think it said that what it
said is that it creates a false positive
right my positive it's all in the
wording yeah it was that it did do a
search but if you tick one of those
boxes it was programmed to come up with
hey we got a problem
mmm so that it forces you to do a check
I mean it's like walking you know kind
of be like walking into a car mechanic
be like I need to get an oil change by
the way did you know your oil filter is
bad and you haven't filled up your
headlight fluid right it's like oh
please fill up my headlight flow yeah
it's gonna be a $35 charge right it's
the same deal it's like you come in for
a legit asyou it might be that your
brakes are bad but then they sell you
headlight fluid $300 doesn't fly easily
under the radar I think okay so think of
us who are these people who are going
into one of these stores to get their
computer fixed it's not the computer
technician that's right it's people that
don't right it's people who don't know
and so you go in and the person that you
see as a technician who's really a
salesperson is possibly on commission
now I'll just put that out there but
it's quite possibly that you know there
are sales targets and there are benefits
to making those targets so do you have
you noticed your computers running a
little slow now think about this for a
second they just brought their computer
into this shop why did they do that
because they're something I packed it up
I brought it in oh yeah yeah I've
noticed that it's running a little bit
slow everybody does you're running
Microsoft Windows it's been up for six
months you know hey have you noticed
that it's been having you know it's
taken its time doing its updates
oh okay well you and I know that a its
windows 10 expect such but that user
who's bringing it into to these stores
is yeah yeah that's so yeah okay well
the software says on my here's what it
says you like it's a survey right it's a
survey do you think this yeah check the
box do you is this yeah check the box
and this worded cleverly to make of them
say yeah yeah because then I can say and
it's all in the wording clever wording
yeah
these are malware like symptoms it's
possible that malware could be causing
these symptoms
yeah malware can cause your computer to
be slow is this malware no but malware
can make your updates take a long time
yes just windows yeah exactly
but it's all in the clever word and so
for that user they just okay yeah
alright so $300 is just like let's get
my computer fixed I need it back right
and people will pay that as opposed to
oh I got to drop 1200 bucks for a new
computer mm-hmm my heart hurts for these
people I'm happy they're getting their
money back but how many people get taken
like this yeah like it happens all the
time it's just unfortunate that in this
case it was so blatant by a company that
you would think you can trust yeah but I
wish we could help everybody like and I
get phone calls from all over Canada and
the United States saying you know can
who can I get to fix this for me
and it like the do you have a friend or
a trusted relative that that can help
you with this and you know so quite
often it's not no I don't know anyone
who's good with computers so you've got
to take it into someone to fix it do you
know who can fix it for you
no I don't well act guess where they're
going yeah yeah going to the retailer
that they bought it at well I've got
like I've got a friend she regularly
connects with me going okay this is
going on how do I fix it since I'll try
and walk you through it I have that
friend what but we like we live a couple
hours away and say I can't be like well
this is what you do so quite often she's
like I'm gonna go to
tarah Geek Squad sure wherever so any of
these guys she walks and she's like oh
they're so nice they help me all the
time good something like this she would
not think to yeah yeah so scammy
yeah so be careful out there folks oh
yeah and I think as the tick technically
savvy folks maybe it's a bit of our
responsibility to to try to direct these
people it's just like when we are trying
to teach folks how to recognize a
phishing scam well try to recognize the
signs of this type of thing happening
and just because this one has been
stopped and thwarted and they're paying
the fees and they're stopping doing what
they're doing
it doesn't mean that they're not out
there so when when one of my friends was
looking at buying a house she's never
bought a house before so she called up
somebody locally that she knew that has
bought houses before and brought him
with her to meet with the homeowner and
to meet with the realtor because she
recognized that you know I I I really
need somebody who knows what they're
talking about
so maybe your tech friend doesn't have
the time to fix it for you but maybe
your tech friend could go with you
to that shop and say you know what
there's something shady about and maybe
you can be that friend maybe you can be
that person who you don't have the time
to fix it but you could go with them -
the technical place that's gonna fix it
for them and say you know what I don't
trust them maybe we need to try the next
guy or maybe it's you know everything
that they said made sense they they
absolutely absolutely that that they
checked all the boxes and it is
definitely now where so be that friend I
mean we can be that friend we don't have
time to fix it so be the friend who can
at least go with them exactly and make
sense or at least refer them back to
this episode like he said be that friend
exactly effective immediately Microsoft
is ending all ebook sales in its
Microsoft stores for Windows PCs
previously purchased ebooks will be
removed from users libraries in early
July even free ones will be deleted the
company will offer full refunds to any
use
for any books they've purchased or
pre-ordered the move is a part of
strategy to help streamline the focus of
the Microsoft Store it seems that the
company no longer has an interest in
trying to compete with Amazon Apple
Books and Google Play Books it's a bit
hard to imagine why anyone would go with
Microsoft over those options anyway if
you have purchased ebooks from Microsoft
you can continue accessing them through
the edge browser until everything
vanishes in July after that customers
can expect to automatically receive a
refund if your original payment method
is no longer valid or if you used a gift
card you'll receive a credit back to
your Microsoft account for use at the
online Microsoft Store Microsoft will
also offer an additional $25 credit to
your Microsoft account if you an
annotated or marked any of the ebooks
that you purchased from the Microsoft
Store prior to April 2nd 2019 I didn't
even know that they sold ebooks well
they don't think they did but if there
are one a book they sold if you bought
yeah this is not working out Vista all
over again
right that's exactly it it's like it's
another thing that Microsoft got we're
not so good at this we're getting get
out of it we're out yeah not that Google
has ever done that but it's a smart move
Microsoft didn't do a very good job
selling my perspective is completely
different my perspective is this and
we've had this discussion maybe you do
tell I don't like that a company that
I'm purchasing from can renege on the
things that I've purchased so and I'm
the guy who still buys physical copies
of CDs compact discs are you young uns
that's heat and then I rip them to mp3s
and then I have my digital copy and I
can do whatever I want with it
right I don't buy iTunes downloads I
don't buy mp3 downloads or any any of
those kinds of things or I buy physical
media that's
I'm old school a little bit I know I buy
DVDs and I rip them to my plex server I
don't buy videos that are streaming
through like I'll rent videos right
because like if I was to go to a rental
store I know I only have it for 24 hours
anyways but if I expect to keep it I
would never buy a digital video from
someone like like who is it that we get
our rentals from the movie theater
galaxy oh no not Blockbuster
Cineplex store you can rent stuff so I
rent my videos through them yet I would
never buy one but that's me
I would physically buy a DVD and then I
would could you not and this is what I'm
confused in this is okay you buy a book
well it turns out you rent it cuz you're
there taking back but you buy a book
from the store
can't you copy it to something else can
you back it up you can't do anything not
necessarily well but if they have
control well you find it within the file
system and then you like it better all
depends on the file format yeah if it's
if it's an aria hacker or not oh yeah
but an ePub file is different a PDF file
is different from buying a book from a
store that gives you access to it within
the store like if if you had a Kindle
app and you bought the book and you paid
for the book you can't take that out of
the Kindle app so if Kindle decided to
just suddenly shut down which they're
not there Amazon's doing okay last I
checked but if they did shut it down I
would just lose that book it would not
be accessible fine I want the physical
book right fine print says they still
all they can get refunded to you for
like 25 29 or whatever yeah is what
happens then to the money that was paid
to the publisher so if they're taking
all the money back yeah
are they they're gonna turn around go to
the publisher be like yeah all we did
was rent you know we want that money
back
ah but we're not hearing about that
though are we
no but that is that the other side of it
maybe it is it's a good thought Jeff I
would tell you I won per year I just
started listening to an audiobook in my
car during my drives and I would be
livid if because I am deep in it now and
I am hooked oh it's like I know where
you're going if they took that from me I
would be really upset
Netflix removed Backyardigans what I'm
just saying my kids was into
Backyardigans when Netflix pulled it
from the lineup yeah nothing stays on
Netflix forever I know I know so why
don't you know what you're getting
Netflix is different though because
you're paying a fee you're not buying
the program right you'll buy a boy yeah
but I think you've got a really kind of
an interesting plot where what happens
to the publisher my wife as an author
and she publishes through KTP right
Kindle direct so you can buy her books
on Kindle well what if they suddenly
said no we're not going to do that
anymore and they can't take the money
back from the arm no they can't no so I
don't know it's the author's I chose how
many people are going well I have that
book but now I don't have the book
anymore yeah what was the book again
maybe now they have to go buy the
hardcopy maybe they're halfway through
the book and they're like all I need to
finish this I need to order it from
Amazon well the same time we're talking
about Microsoft story I don't think it's
that big of a player in the market no I
feel like they can afford to pay
everybody back their money in so how
many of you bought a Bitcoin a single
Bitcoin last week well let's look at
what coin gecko says about the crypto
market and how it looked as of 1800
hours on August 4 August 3rd 2019 if you
bought a Bitcoin last week so one week
ago from when we broadcast this show
what I do
- you would have an extra one thousand
two hundred and fourteen dollars in one
sent us in your bank account from one
Bitcoin it is up to five thousand two
hundred and thirty three dollars and two
cents us it's pretty big game that would
be good we call those people who have
thousands of Bitcoin yeah that's right
okay yeah it was twenty one thousand a
couple yeah litecoin is up as well
ninety five dollars and seventy cents
this week up from 61 last week aetherium
also on the rise up at one hundred and
seventy six dollars and fifty four cents
gaining thirty-eight dollars and 64
cents so on the up-and-up monaro also
gaining at seventy one dollars and
twenty seven cents per Manero now Jeff
are you ready for stellate I am it's the
only one that lost at 0.04 ten
thousandth of a cent drop it's down at
one point five six ten thousandth of a
cent and turtle coin is in fact gaining
and is up higher than stellite this week
at one point seven ten thousandth of a
cent you go little guy but you can have
billions of turtle coin that's all
relative I feel like we now need a hair
comb hair coin no I just got very poor
we got a turtle in the hair huh and so
that kind of hangs on the hair go really
fast Jeff is like r-word half hair do
you remember if you decide to invest in
the cryptocurrency market that it is
always volatile and never closes
big thanks to Roy W nationair community
of viewers for submitting stories to us
this week thanks for watching the
category-5 TV newsroom don't forget to
Like and subscribe for all your tech
news with ass white Linux biased and for
more free content be sure to check out
our web site from the category-five TV
newsroom I'm Sasha Rickman and I'm
Robbie Ferguson and I'm Jeff Weston all
right we've got to take a really quick
break when we come back we are gonna be
getting into our maker of the month
around whether you shop on thinkgeek
gearbest B&amp;H photo video eBay or Amazon
or even if you want a free trial of
audible you'll find the best deals and
support the shows we produce by simply
visiting the shopping sites you already
frequent by using the links on our
website visit category-five TV slash
partners for the full and ever-growing
list and help us create more free
content like this show thank you for
shopping with our partners and thank you
for watching so let's get into our
first-ever
Vicker oh come on you can head on over
to Kat v dot TV slash maker
0:01 to learn all about what Shaun M
Tracy has created are you ready for this
yes I am okay you have always wanted to
take a Raspberry Pi and make what a
picture frame that displays pictures
clothes I've wanted it to display like
weather and alerts while I'm standing in
front of mirror all kinds of like that
yeah the mirror displays those kinds of
projects are really super cool right
you've seen them all over the web yep
picture frames mirrors those kinds of
like screens powered by a raspberry
Potts yeah yeah now what Sean M Tracy
has done differently is taken that and
added Watson AI like artificial
intelligence
Watson like supercomputer watch yes yes
so tapped into the AI you ready for this
let's jump over to my computer screen
here he calls it the ants to frame and
Sean was looking for a gift for his mom
mm-hmm it's just this past Christmas a
couple months back in and finally came
up with this idea I'm gonna make a
Raspberry Pi powered picture frame
okay that is going to have pictures on
it and which you've heard of in you hey
everybody yeah that's no big deal right
everybody's done that but he tapped into
Watson AI so that when his mom looks
down at that picture frame the only
pictures that appear on that even though
they are sourced from Instagram are
pictures of her grandchildren just when
mom looks at it or understand so using
facial recognition AI technology Shawn
has now taken this picture frame had it
go out on the Internet to Instagram and
grabbed all of the pictures from his
feed and using facial recognition he's
uploaded like 40 different pictures of
each of those kids so that the AI would
recognize them so now the AI says oh
yeah that's his niece and that's his
nephew and those are the pictures that
are displayed on this picture frame cool
so now this picture frame once it's all
said and done and head on over to cat
five dot TV slash maker
0:01 there it is so he's the whole
project is outlined here shows you how
he built it how how it was put together
and there's the final product the
picture frame Jeff shows only pictures
of his niece and nephew that's cool but
all through AI so he could upload any
pictures to his account that he wants
but the picture frame will still only
show though as soon as the picture shows
up of the kids boom now what I want to
know is does he have the ability to
remotely pop in to update if I don't see
why not
so then this would make for a great
April Fool's frame as well switch all
the photos to something else
Wow
Jeff that could happen that's Shawn
there's your idea for april fools next
year just a little bit late next month
head on over to cap five dot TV slash
maker zero zero one you'll find out what
what Shawn has done I don't think that
he's made it Blake into like bananas and
whatever else is that work it's the kids
facial recognition built into a picture
frame though it's like it's very what
manufacturer is gonna pick up on this
and say this is a cool feature it that
is really cool I want to know if Watson
will notice as the children progress in
age and update and take like the but
keep the young pictures right right well
he could I mean here's the theoretical
for you but just it works by providing
pictures that the AI can reference right
so that it can recognize that those kids
are the kids right those are the kids
that we're gonna display so there's
nothing to stop him from uploading
another 40 pictures as the kids age and
then Watson will learn from that and
start displaying those I'm wondering
well would Watson just learn on his own
as the kids age yeah sure yeah
maybe Thanks I would think so cuz kids
age subtly it's not like they change
facially amazing yeah like I say that
but there's some day as I come home and
I'm like wow my kids you work a lot this
is sad what I love about Shawn's project
though is like yeah you can take all the
pictures of your kids and put it on an
SD card and plug it into a picture frame
and there you go but then you gotta
update it and and I it gets to be a
chore if you've got to update it and and
certainly if it's a gift to need to
update it at someone else's house is a
little bit more onerous so here as he
uploads more pictures to his Instagram
account it's immediately available to
the picture frame let's just I love
absolutely awesome well done Sean
congratulations on becoming our
first-ever maker of the month here on
category 5 TV again check out his
project at cap 5 dot TV slash maker
0:01 that's fun in my pocket you know
what's in there it's called a dad a
traveler mm from Kingston love that
we've been giving these things away and
we've got one more for you if you would
like to qualify for an encrypted USB
flash drive this is
the flash drive that has a built-in
keypad so check this out that keypad is
where I punch in my password and when I
punch it in it decrypts the drive so I
can plug it into my computer plug it
into my TV set my set-top box whatever I
want to connect it to and it will have
decrypted data until I unplug it and it
immediately becomes encrypted again
right fantastic we're giving those away
all you have to do is email contest a
category-5 TV and let us know where you
are writing us from where you're
watching from just so that we know where
our viewers are and in the subject line
I want you to put Kingston giveaway just
so that we know as well where that where
that is going to be where we're gonna
cast that ballot beautiful yeah
I use my own good luck me too I love it
I keep it on me all the time it's not
just a prop thank you to those who have
pitched in something a little extra
toward our server build we do need to
build a new broadcast server for
category 5 TV and your contributions are
helping us to make that a possibility
this spring head on over to donate
category 5 TV in order to pitch in and
of course if you'd like to become a
patron there's a great way for you to
become a supporter of the show and what
we do here at category 5 TV which we do
for free but by becoming a patron we
give you extra content we give you
access to to extra stuff that is not
available to the general public but also
the funds help us to be able to afford
what we do and what we offer here at
category 5 TV for free so thank you to
those who have been contributing and
that's all the time that we have for
this week yeah the time just flies by
thanks you too for being here
thanks everybody for being here it's
nice to see Jeff again I know it's like
who is this bearded man if all goes well
it should be here for the next little
bit exceptional well we're looking
forward to it thank you for joining us
this week don't forget we are on twitter
at category 5 TV also if you want to
follow me personally I am at robbie
ferguson are you on twitter the response
was not very confident so i
say that's oh yeah I have a Twitter
account but I don't update it I update
mine all the time and I follow back so
at Robbie Ferguson right here you'll get
a follower for sure
we're also on YouTube category 5 TV if
you want you can tune into Linux tech
show comm which will reroute you to
YouTube a special channel that is edited
down copies of category 5 TV so our one
hour show becomes a whole bunch a little
10 minute clips and that's a great way
to watch category 5 as well we're also
on roku channel store you can catch us
on Plex or Kodi channels you can get
those a cat5 TV on github you'll find
those also our main website brings
everything together at category five dot
TV so check out that website as well
it's been fun having you here I hope
everybody has a great week you too yes
nice to see you and have a fantastic
week as well see ya
[Applause]
