hi and welcome to new every day my name
is Carrie and my name is Jen and on
today's show we're asking the question
so how do you get good soil so stay
tuned
[Music]
my welcome back to new every day so glad
you tuned in it's a beautiful day
looking around on our drive home and
we're looking at fields full of what I
would soon would be good soil we're
talking about the parable the store
we're finally at the good soil we are
finally at the good soil so a little bit
of review what are some we talked about
some internal things that affect gross
so things that are sort of on the inside
of us and we talked about how that is
for the most part sin ok yeah so those
are the rocks the rocks like the sinful
nature the pride the selfishness sin
that comes from the inside ok then we
also talked then we talked with respect
to the the weeds external things that
affect growth those things that are
coming from the outside that affect us
so we talked about the deceitfulness of
wealth and worries of this world those
things are external they come out us
from the outside we still have to
process them on the inside which are
then affected by the rocks in her life
ok right but those are coming from the
outside affecting us whereas the sinful
nature's coming from the end
okay so the two of them working together
which often is what happens
causes us to grow not to grow and so the
big big question is well how do you
actually have good soil then right so
how do you get rid of the weeds we
already talked to that we talked about
how to get rid of the rocks but how do
you actually nurture the soil so it's
good so you do produce a crop and so
that one passage that we are focusing on
verse 8 says still other seed fell on
good soil where produced a crop 160 or
three times what was sown he who has
ears let him hear
and so Jesus responds to that he
interprets it in verse 23 but the one
who received the seed that fell on good
soil is the man who hears the word and
understands it he produces a crop
yielding a hundred sixty or thirty times
what was sown
so the key is in the understanding
rain
because it says he understood right who
understands it is the good soil but the
seed that fell on good soil is the man
who hears hears the word hears it so
there's an audible listening okay and
then there's the understanding it right
which is I want to I often whenever I
think that were understanding I think of
a cow chewing the cud ok it has point it
has four stomachs and so what actually
happens is it eats the grass swallows
goes down but then it actually comes up
again and he choose it again goes down
comes back up choose it like that's the
chewing of the cut right and so he's
ruminating on it and so when we talk
about understanding is this idea of does
that thought does that God thought that
gospel message I want to say ruminates
like that like does it ruminate around
in your head and and do you think about
it you ponder it's like listening to a
message in church which for us church
was yesterday and we even said okay what
is it that stands out from that message
right so what are you ruminating on from
that that message and house I'm going to
affect your life that when we say
because it's hearing the word but it's
also understanding it's that ruminating
I understand what this means i'm going
to apply it to my life i'm going to if
you think about that kerry and he's
going to get every ounce of nutrients
out of that right he has could chew on
it a long time he's right ruminating
thinking about it processing it now if I
have my idea of a cow eating
grasp off for the most part it's right
it does have four stomachs and it does
take that long to process it and it does
2 2 and 2 into into so it's that same
understanding so I apologize to any
farmers out there I have it awfully but
not going to correct you I don't know so
but you have to hear the word and you
have to understand it then I also think
Jen doesn't Jesus say no one comes to
the Father unless the father
is God not prepared people's arts
yes he does
I'm just answering her question because
she asked yes or no question okay yes
the father does drawers preparing us but
creating a desire in us for him for us
to ask those questions right to seek him
out right it says that that the father
through His grace draws us to him
but our responsibility is then to
actually receive it right it says that
he heard it right he received the truth
yeah so yes the father and that's that's
part of the lavishness of the seed like
he lavishly throws the seed which draws
us right does that make sense and so he
lavishly draws all people to himself but
it really is our am I willing to pick it
up am I willing to ruminate it am I
willing to plant the seed firmly in my
life and to grow out of it to deny
myself which is what we talked about
with regards to the rocks like am I
willing to to deny myself and pick up my
cross and follow Christ and so like
that's the retaining it by persevering
and to go over to Luke eight teams for
some further understanding and you
mentioned this a little bit in the last
episode Luke 15 says but the seed on
good soil stands for those of a noble
and good heart who hear the word retain
it and by persevering produces a crop
right so they've heard it they've
retained it they chewed on it they've
understood it and they choose to keep it
and by persevering produces a crop and
so to persevere actually means I check
this out in the dictionary says to
persist in anything undertaken to
maintain a purpose in spite of
difficulty okay in spite of obstacles in
spite of discouragement and to continued
steadfastly
yeah I can think of some older Christian
people in my life that I know that they
have just continued
in what they believe yeah they just have
kept reading the Bible they just have
kept loving people I've kept offering
forgiveness they kept being forgiven
and and just choosing to live that life
loving God knowing that they have life
in him like it's been a long process for
them and I think for a while I was kind
of
getting discouraged because I saw some
people like people who i thought had
been Christians along
and yet they don't seem to be living
this book won an abundant life
and I was like what
we're gonna add this gig for 50 years
and I don't see like a crop of 160 or
even 30 right from just looking at your
life these are people that maybe I don't
know so well but it wasn't
I mean if there's a bumper crop it's
like wow there's a bumper crop that's
that's good stuff being produced right
so I don't know Jen like I guess I was
like well what happened if you were good
soil at one point why why now when I'm
looking do I not
oh and i think i think we read that
passage and it says
it produced 30 60 or 100 I've listened
to a couple different understandings of
what that means 11 preacher said we'll
strive for the hundred strive for the
hundred you like what's in here at me
like what what do you say 100 500 what
like what am i doing right but that's
just it's like what does that crop of
hundred does that mean that you've
shared the gospel with a thousand people
right and so okay so and so or you've
only shared the gospel with 500 people
and you've only shared the gospel with
you know 200 people is that without any
measuring bar like it's the measuring
bear sharing the gospel high or living
this abundant life like what does that
mean but it says producing a crop right
so what is the crop bullets love joy
peace patience kindness goodness
faithfulness gentleness self-control
right the fruit of the Spirit and and
John 15 5 says remain in me and remain
if you remain if man who reigns me and I
on him he will bear much fruit apart
from me you can do nothing right so
there's this idea that when we remain
with Christ we produce fruit but we I
think we can get caught up with i want
to say pointing the finger well i don't
see the fruit I don't see the fruit in
your life I don't see the fruit in your
life and is it because we're looking for
the hundred fold but really the fact
that they go to work faithfully every
day that they witness to their friends
faithfully every day
and you know they share the gospel but
the person may be that they're having a
cup of coffee with and yet that person
goes on to produce you know they share
their faith with you know a hundred
people the fact is they still were
faithful to the opportunities that God
gave them like someone shared the gospel
with Billy Graham right we don't even
know well I'm sure it says somewhere who
that one person was and
and then Billy Graham went on and so
then do we look at Billy Graham's life
and go oh yeah that's 100-fold life for
the person who only shared it with you
because they only shared it with one
person well that's only a 30-fold life
and so it's like I think we can get
striving saying well I want to produce
more fruit but I'm wondering because if
you look at different types of fruit
like an orange will only produce like
what five or six seeds inside of itself
so it could only produce five or six
trees out of that one but a stalk of
wheat has like 60 seeds in it so then it
can produce itself 60 more times because
of the scene capacity that it has and so
but when you just look at the orange
where you're like well I can only
produce itself like five more times so
you likening that too
someone may be in orange and someone
maybe Oh eat yeah like I think the
question is are you actually producing
to your capacity like are you producing
to what God has given to you
and that I think part of the question
that we need to ask cuz he isnt
pooh-poohing the 30 fold or the 60 fold
or 100 fold he is just saying this is
our you put I guess the big question is
are you producing fruit and so was it
because even jesus said every branch in
me that does not bear fruit the father
cuts off and prune so that will be a
huge bore fruit right so we're going to
pause we're going to come back right
after this Jeff Weston Yellin you're
building a brand new beautiful website
what are you no way you're terrible
actor what does we're acting comes into
play oh I don't know where I think
you're supposed to act okay I'm building
a really cool website are you building a
really cool website you need hosting one
of the things about a hosting account is
you don't want to have limitations put
on your website it's true how much hard
drive space you have how many email
accounts how many domains can point to
it well we've got an amazing deal for
you for a very limited time cat five dot
TV / dreamhost for just five dollars and
a bit of change per month you are going
to get unlimited web site hosting
unlimited email accounts on that hosting
service you are also going to receive a
free domain name the rules are your own
com dice to put that amazing website
that you've been working on on there if
you run if you want to build a wordpress
site fine sign up cat five dot TV /
dreamhost just don't put the end of the
papers are just don't do it but hey it's
a great deal folks best deal you're
gonna find five dollars and change per
month go to cap five dot TV / dreamhost
welcome back so glad that you are still
in tune with us thank you also to
category 5 teen
for making this show possible and for
all of our partners go on to our website
you ever date on TV check out our
partners page scroll down maybe see how
you can support us or support those
businesses that are so painfully
partnering with us
hurry yet we're having this conversation
of what 30 60 and harm fold means and to
be totally honest I don't know we don't
know
and I'm okay with that because at the
end of the day it
we need to be producing fruit to the
capacity to which God says it's it's
like what have you done with what you
have been given so I'm thinking of the
pack of the parable of the talents right
where the owner gave 1 10 15 and 11 well
why did he do that well because he knew
that the one who he gave 10 to was going
to be faithful with the 10 and the one
he gave 52 would be faithful with the
five and those to run run as if we're
going to be the winner of the race yes
so it's like if you're a marathon or run
the marathon if you're a 5k run the 5k
like whatever it is that you have the
capacity to do then do that you know
what I'm reading this book actually from
the 1900s and I think I may be talked
about it before but it's about
like the work that you're doing like how
to use the work you're doing whatever it
is to honor God with it so the one the
one chapter talks about the drudgery of
work and sometimes in your job like
maybe like maybe if you're like a PSW
and you have to help people wash up off
the PSW versus support worker okay you
have to be help people wash up and it's
a dirty job and you might not like it or
you ain't you know be a clerk at walmart
and people are unkind to you and that
kind of like drudgery of the day in day
out kind of not fun things but
the way that it's written is so
beautiful because it likens that
how we
how it can be a sacrifice to not
complain about those things and to
consider it an honor because of what
Christ done and how much he sacrificed
for us that if we do that work in such a
way with love and patience for the other
people that were interacting with that
that essentially produces good fruit
like our love will be a bounding for our
yashas will amount yes and we'll find
that it becomes easier and easier to do
that as we submit those things to God so
maybe that act of
checking that person through the till
who's really unkind maybe that that's
your opportunity to introduce that one
fold or the right who fold
and well and we have talks a little bit
about James it says James 1224 consider
it pure joy my brothers when you face
trials of many kinds because you know
that the testing of your faith develops
perseverance and perseverance must
finish its work so that you may be
mature and complete it's not interesting
not lacking in anything so it's like
have you walked through those trials
well you do with perseverance like Kerry
said with kindness and consider a joy
that you actually have this opportunity
because it's going it's going to produce
fruit in you yep and it's kind of like
the day by date name
in the end the mole of imma win and
sometimes talking about Christian
concepts it can be seem really like out
there and another why I actually apply
this meanwhile when I hit the street or
when i hit my job or when I start
talking to my family again that's where
the that's where the money is yes if
it's in the conversations in the
thoughts that you have man so many
things to think about like even as we
keep going we're like Oh talk about that
we can talk about that but we're out of
time so we want to wrap this up and say
thanks for tuning in and and maybe you
can pray for us yeah so three things we
want you to remember is am I willing to
receive my ready to receive the word and
am I willing to obey it and do I have
the courage to follow it out so we want
you to think about those three things
the idea am I willing to receive it by
willing to walk it out and dear Jesus
give us the courage to old band so we
want to leave that with you we pray that
the god of all goodness
will draw near to you today
and as you i want to say ruminate on
this passage that he'll speak his truth
into your heart
and that you will remain in him and he
with you it will produce much fruit have
a great week
you
